Report No. 1194-CD
Appraisal of a                                                      FILE COPY
Rural Projects Fund Chad
October 27, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFfICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                   CFAF 225
CFAF 1,000                US$4.44
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)      2          0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )         0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)             =    2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)           =    2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
APMU: Agricultural Projects Management Unit (IDA)
BDT: Banque de Developpement du Tchad
COTONTCHAD: Societe Cotonniere du Tchad
CMPA: Centre de modernization des Productions Animales
CSPC: Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton
FAC:   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FDAR:  Fonds de Developpement et d'Action Rurale
FED:   Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FMU:   Fund Management Unit
GR:    Direction du Genie Rural
ONDR:   Office National du Developpement Rural
PIC:   Perimetres Irrigues du Chari (ONDR)
PWb:   Public Works Department
Direction des Travaux Publiques
RPF:   Rural Projects Fund
Fonds de Projets Ruraux
SERARHY:   Service des Amenagements Ruraux d'Hydraulique
Rural Water Supply Agency
WFP:   World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
Project:     October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ..................................                                  -v
I.     INTRODUCTION  .............................................                                       1
II.      BACKGROUND             ........................             .......................              1
A.    General  ..............................................                                    1
B.   The  Rural  Sector  .....................................                                   2
C.    Institutions  .........................................                                    3
D.    Rural  Sector  Strategy  ................................                                  4
III.      THE  PROJECT  ..............................................                                      6
A.    Summary  Description  ..................................                                   6
B.   Detailed  Features  ....................................                                    7
Small-Scale  Irrigation  ..........................                                7
Warehouses  ......................................                                 8
Pastoral  Wells:    Batha  Prefecture  ....                      ...........       8
Village  Water  Supplies  ..........................                               9
Feeder  Road  Improvement  .........................                               9
Animal-Feed Production and Marketing of Poultry
Products  .....................................                              10
Bottomland  Development  ..........................                               10
Consultant  Services  .............................
C.   Organization  and  Management  ..........................
IV.      COST  ESTIMATES  AND  FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  ..............                          ..       13
A. Project Costs .13
B. Proposed Financing .15
C. Procurement .16
D. Disbursement .16
E. Accounts and Audit .17
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS                                             18
A. Yields and Outputs .18
B. Markets and Prices .19
C. Farmer Benefits .19
D. Financial Implications for Government .20
VI.      BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ...............................                                   21
Risks  ....................................................                                    22
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........................................                                    23
This document has a restrictèd distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Rural Sector
Table  1   Area, Population and Social Services by Ecological Zone
Table  2   Food Balance Sheets:  1970, and Foodgrain Demand and
Supply, 1970-85
Table  3   Trends in Agricultural Production and Inputs
Table  4   Livestock Numbers
2.   Small-Scale Irrigation
Table  1   Pumping Requirements for a 23 ha Perimeter
Table  2   Average Pumping Cost
Table  3   Quantities and Costs for 23 ha Perimeter
Table  4   Crop Areas, Yields and Gross Income per 23 ha Perimeter
Table  5   Operating Costs for 23 ha Perimeter
Table  6   Budget for a Farming Family
Table  7   Investment Costs for One Service Center
Table  8   Staff Requirements and Costs
Table  9   Schedule of Implementation and Investment Costs
Table 10   Aggregate Value of Production and Operating Costs
Table 11   Economic Price for Cotton Lint
Table 12   Economic Price for Wheat
Table 13   Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Appendix 1 Soil Survey Draft Terms of Reference
3.   Warehouses
Table  1   Location of Existing ONDR Warehouses and COTONTCHAD
Ginneries and Summary of Proposed ONDR Warehouses
Table  2   Storage Capacity Required
Table  3   Indicative Schedule of Locations of New Warehouses
Table  4   Units Costs and Schedule of Expenditure
4.   Pastoral Wells - Batha Prefecture
Table  1   Yearly Operating and Technical Assistance Costs
Table  2   Complementary Investment Requirements for Equipment
Table  3   Financial Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 1 Terms of Reference for a Range and Pastoral Survey
5.   Village Water Supplies
Table  1   Existing Wells and Village Requirements
Table  2   Subproject Costs and Schedule of Expenditures
Table  3   Buildings, Offices and Stores
Table  4   Equipment and Vehicles for Well Repairs
Table  5   Material Requirements
Table  6   Salaries and Operating Costs



- 3-
6.   Feeder Road Improvement
Table  1   Road Inventory
Table  2   Plant, Vehicles and Equipment - Purchase and
Operating Costs
Table  3   Wages and Salaries
Table  4   Subproject Costs and Schedule of Expenditure
Table  5   Economic Benefits and Costs
7.   Animal Feed Production and Marketing of Poultry Products
Table  1   Investments
8.   Bottomland Development
Table  1   Schedule of Implementation and Subproject Costs
Table  2   Unit Quantities and Costs
Table  3   Personnel, Wages and Salaries
Table  4   Prices and Marketing Structures for Paddy
Table  5   Rate of Return
9.   RPF Management
Schedule 1   Qualifications and Responsibilities of Key Personnel
Table  1   Costs of the Management Unit
Chart      Proposed Organization and Management
10. Project Costs, Financing and Implementation Schedule
Table  1   Summary of Project Costs and Financing
Table  2   Details of Project Financing
Table  3   IDA Disbursement Schedule
Table  4   IDA Disbursement Categories
Table  5   Government Cash Flow
Chart      Implementation Schedule
11. Reporting Requirements
Table  1   Small-scale Irrigation
Table  2   Warehouses, Pastoral Wells and Village Water Supplies
Table  3   Feeder Road Improvement, Animal Feed/Poultry and
Bottomland Development
MAPS
1.   Subproject Areas (Map 12057)
2.   Subprojects in Southern Chad (Map 12058)
3.   Pastoral Wells - Batha Region (Map 12059)






CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of Chad has requested IDA assistance to set up a
Rural Projects Fund which would finance seven small-scale rural projects.
The project concept was identified by RMWA in late 1974; of the seven sub-
projects, two were identified at that time, one from a pilot scheme financed
by FAC and the other as a follow-up to the ongoing Livestock Project (Credit
309-CD), and the remaining five were proposed by Government during appraisal.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Chad in November/December 1975.
Project Description
il.       The Rural Projects Fund (RPF) is intended as the first three-year
phase of a longer term program, and would include finance for the preparation
of a second-phase project. The RPF would comprise:
(a) the development and initial operation of 42 small-
scale pump irrigation perimeters (aboù. 970 ha
irrigated) and five service centers along the northern
Chari River;
(b) the construction of 200 warehouses in the Cotton Zone;
(c) the rehabilitation of a pastoral wells network (over
300 lined wells) in the Batha prefecture in the
Sahelian zone;
(d) the establishment and initial operation of a tubewell
drilling and open well maintenance unit to serve villages
in three prefectures in the Cotton Zone, including
the rehabilitation of about 146 lined wells and the
installation of about 110 tubewells to be operated
by foot pumps;
(e) minor structural repairs and spot resurfacing spread
over about 1,200 km of feeder roads in the Cotton
Zone;
(f) buildings and equipment for animal feed production and
poultry marketing near N'Djamena;
(g) land improvements and water control works in bottomlands
(about 700 ha) in the Cotton Zone.



- ii -
In addition, the project would finance a Fund Management Unit (FMU), technical
assistance, training seminars and consultants' services.
Project Implementation
iii.      Government would create the FMU in the Ministry of Economy, Planning
and Transport, consisting of a Chadian Fund Manager, an internationally re-
cruited Deputy Fund Manager, and supporting staff. The Fund Manager would
report to an Interministerial Governing Committee, consisting of the ministers
or their representatives of the five relevant ministries and the Director of
Planning as Secretary. FMU would review detailed subproject work programs,
budgets and progress reports, bidding procedures and contracts. It would
monitor and evaluate all project-financed activities and would identify and
prepare a follow-up project.
iv.       Subproject implementation would be undertaken by:  ONDR for the
small-scale irrigation and warehouses subprojects; SERARHY for the pastoral
wells and village water supply subprojects; COTONTCIAD for the feeder road
subproject; CMPA for the animal feed!poultry marketing subproject; and Genie
Rural for the bottomland development subproject. These agencies are among
the best organized and staffed in the country. The ONDR, SERARHY and Genie
Rural divisions which are directly responsible for subproject implemen-
tation would nonetheless need to be strengthened by technical assistance and
additional local staff financed from the RPF.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
v.        Project costs for the three-year period beginning October 1976 are
estimated at US$13.4 million (net of taxes), with a foreign exchange component
of 55%. The base cost of each subproject and the FMU is as follows: small-
scale irrigation US$2.5 million; warehouses US$2.0 million; pastoral wells
US$1.1 million; village water supplies US$2.0 million; feeder road improvement
US$1.2 million; animal feed and poultry marketing US$0.3 million; bottomland
development US$0.6 million; and the FMU US$0.6 million. Project costs would
include a physical contingency of 9% of base cost (US$0.9 million) and provi-
sion for expected price increases of 21% of base cost (US$2.2 million).  It
is proposed that an IDA credit of US$12.0 million be made to Government on
standard terms covering 90% of project costs, comprising 91% of foreign exchange
costs, estimated at US$6.7 million, and 88% of local costs amounting to US$5.3
million. FAC would contribute almost US$1.0 million, or 7% of project costs.
The FAC contribution would be made available pari passu at the rate of 20% for
two subprojects: small-scale irrigation and bottomland development, as well
as for the FMU. The remaining project costs estimated at US$0.4 million or
about 3% of project costs would be contributed by final beneficiaries in the
small-scale irrigation and village water supply subprojects. Farmers in the
small-scale irrigation and bottomland development subprojects would also
contribute unpaid voluntary labor valued at about US$0.6 million, which is not
included in the project cost estimates.
vi.       The IDA credit would be channelled through an account to be opened
in the name of the FMU at the BDT. FMU would allocate these funds as grants



- iii -
to the agencies charged with subproject implementation. Since Chad is unable
to prefinance project expenditures, IDA would finance a revolving fund,
through the RPF account at BDT, of US$0.5 million from the credit account.
Meantime, IDA has extended a US$0.5 million Project Preparation Advance to
Government on October 6, 1976, to be refinanced under the Credit.
Procurement and Disbursements
vii.      Procurement of vehicles and equipment (estimated cost US$1.8 mil-
lion), building construction (estimated cost US$2.2 million), and materials
for force account works (estimated cost US$1.6 million), would be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the
case of contracts over US$50,000; for building construction contracts, local
contractors would receive 7-1/2% preference. In the case of contracts of
less than US$50,000 but more than US$10,000, procurement would be through
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA.
For contracts under US$10,000, direct competitive purchasing would be
employed. The services of expatriate staff and consultants (estimated
cost US$1.6 million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to
IDA.
viii.     The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed on 80% of cost
of ail items in those subprojects with FAC co-financing except for on-farm
investments in the small-scale irrigation subproject, and 100% of cost of all
items in the other subprojects except for operating costs of village water
supplies where disbursement would be made on 40% of costs. Disbursements
would cover vehicles and equipment (US$1.8 million), buildings, construc-
tion materials and skilled labor (US$4.0 million), expatriate staff and
consultants (US$1.4 million), local staff salaries (US$0.9 million), operating
costs (US$0.9 million), operating costs of the village water supplies sub-
project (US$0.1 million), and working capital for the first year of each new
small-scale irrigation perimeter (US$0.2 million), all net of identifiable
taxes. Up to US$0.5 million would be used for refinancing the Project Prepara-
tion Advance granted by IDA for this Project, and US$2.2 million would be
unallocated. Except for the revolving fund for which certification of expen-
ditures would be made available after withdrawal from the Credit, disburse-
ments would be made against import documentation, contracts and certified
records of expenditures. Any remaining undisbursed funds would be made available
for new subprojects to be identified and prepared by FMU and to be approved by
IDA.
Production, Markets, Prices and Farmer Benefits
ix.       Three of the seven subprojects would be directly productive:  small-
scale irrigation, pastoral wells and bottomland development. Incremental
annual production would include 960 tons seed cotton, 720 tons sorghum,
960 tons wheat, 560 tons paddy, 3,700 tons milk from cattle, and about 2,500
tons of carcass meat. Cotton lint would be exported, wheat and paddy would
substitute for imports, and sorghum would help to meet the growing internal
foodgrain demand; incremental supplies of slaughter cattle would be exported
mainly to Nigeria, and sheep and goats would be consumed locally. Incremental
milk production would be used for subsistence. No marketing problems are
anticipated.



- iv -
x.        About 47,000 farming or pastoral families would benefit from the
directly productive subprojects. About 3,900 families, each working 0.25 ha
in small irrigation perimeters, would increase their annual farm incomes
from about US$112 to about US$159; 3,500 families, each working 0.2 ha in
improved bottomlands, would increase their annual farm incomes from about
U$209 to about US$233; and about 40,000 families in the Batha region would
increase their annual incomes from livestock from about US$210 to about
US$260, over an eleven year period.
Economic Benefits and Justification
xi.       Benefits from the RPF would accrue to well over 400,000 rural
people or over 10% of the rural population of the country. Of the four
subprojects that are not directly productive, the village water supply
subproject would reach about 26,000 families as direct beneficiaries. The
other three subprojects would strengthen the respective executing agencies
and indirect benefits would accrue to many rural families.
xii.      One of the most important benefits of the RPF would be the on-the-
job experience acquired by Chadian staff and institutions in the implementa-
tion of simple, easily-replicated rural works. The Fund Management Unit,
located in the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport, would boost the
rural sector planning and project preparation capacities of the Ministry.
xiii.     Economic rates of return have been calculated for five of seven
independent subprojects: small-scale irrigation: 11%; input warehouses:
20%; pastoral wells: 19%; feeder road improvement: 19%; and bottomland
development: 14%. The overall rate of return of these subprojects, includ-
ing the overhead cost of FMU, is 17%. This overall rate of return relates
to 78% of project base cost and is not sensitive to changes in costs and
benefits; of the particular subprojects, small-scale irrigation is the most
sensitive and pastoral wells the least sensitive.
Risks
xiv.      The success of four of the seven subprojects depends on key ex-
patriates; particularly intensive efforts, including recourse to APMU, are
therefore being made to recruit good staff. Further difficulties would arise
from the impossibility of undertaking rural works outside the dry season
(November/ May), but the risk of delay in initial operations is being reduced
by recourse to the project preparation facility. Problems of collection of
fees from direct beneficiaries can be anticipated for the pastoral wells and
village water supplies subprojects and, although to a lesser extent, for the
small-scale irrigation subproject, despite the intended efforts of the
Government. Even if none of these fees are collected, however, the Government
cash flow would remain positive. Since the RPF consists of seven independent
subprojects, thp fùilur,  f one component would not have serious repercussions
on the others.
xv.       With the assurances and condk.ions indicated in Chapter VII, the
RPF is suitablr .or an IDA Credit of US$12.0 million.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Chad has requested IDA assistance in setting up
a Rural Projects Fund (RPF). The RPF would finance seven small subprojects
designed to increase agricultural production and to improve the living con-
ditions of rural communities. Over 400,000 rural people would benefit from
small-scale irrigation, bottomland development, improved pastoral wells,
village water supplies, warehouses, rural roads and finally, improved animal
feed production and marketing of poultry products. The project concept was
identified by RMWA in late 1974; of the seven subprojects, two were identi-
fied at that time, one from a pilot scheme financed by FAC and the other
as a follow-up to the ongoing IDA Livestock Project, and the remaining five
were proposed by Government during appraisal.
1.02      Previous IDA credits for agriculture have been made as follows:
(i) the Livestock Development Project (Credit 309-CD, US$2.2 million) in 1972
which, after initial difficulties, is now progressing satisfactorily; (ii)
the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 445-CD, US$2.0 million) in 1974, which is
progressing satisfactorily; (iii) the Sategui-Deressia Irrigation Project
(Credit 489-CD, US$7.5 million) in 1974, which was followed by a supplementary
credit of US$8.0 million in August 1976; and (iv) the Lake Chad Polders
Project (Credit 592-CD, US$5.0 million) in 1975, which has recently become
effective.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, com-
prising Messrs. K. Meyn, I. Erim, E. Sinodinos and D. Steeds (IDA), T. Bright,
J. Howell and Te Sun Hoa (consultants), which visited Chad in November/December
1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. GENERAL
2.01      Chad has an area of 1.3 million km  and is sparsely populated with
about four million people, of whom 3.5 million live in rural areas. Total
population is growing by about 2%/year, with a rural rate of 1.5%/year and
an urban rate of about 5.5%/year. About half the rural population lives
in the southwest or Cotton Zone (Annex 1, Table 1) which represents only 10%
of the area of the country, and where smallholders cultivate cereals and
cotton under adequate rainfall conditions (750-1200 mm/year). The other half
are mainly pastoralists living in the dry grassland belt, with less than 750
mm/year even in normal years.
2.02      Chad is among the world's poorest countries.  Current GNP is
about US$120 per capita and, in rural areas, about US$60. The economy is
dominated by the rural sector in which, under rainfed conditions, cotton



- 2 -
and livestock have the greatest potential, although the latter is drought-
prone. In general, development is hampered by poor infrastructure and by
the fact that Chad is some 1,700 km, or a minimum cost of US$130/ton, from
the nearest ocean port. Government faces an acute budgetary situation which
is exacerbated by military expenditures incurred for internal security pur-
poses. In the last few years, deficit financing has amounted to over 20%
of total government expenditures.
B. THE RURAL SECTOR
2.03      The rural sector contributes about 55% to GDP and about 90% to ex-
ports, of which cotton, livestock and animal products, and fish are the main
commodities.  Chad is normally self-sufficient in coarse grains (Annex 1,
Table 2), but imports of 30,000 tons/year were necessary during the 1972-74
drought.  The only agricultural products imported in any volume in 'normal'
years are wheat (12,000 tons/year) and sugar (20,000 tons/year).
2.04      Rainfed crop production, which is concentrated in the south and
which becomes more precarious towards the north of the country, is based
on family farms cultivating 2-3 ha/year.  While subsistence food crops such
as millet, sorghum, and legumes are given first priority by farmers at plant-
ing time, there is a continuing expansion of cash crop production, predomin-
antly cotton.
2.05      Cotton production has increased from about 100,000 tons/year in
the mid-1960's through 1973/74 to the record 175,000 tons in 1975/1976, mainly
as a result of the productivity program financed with FAC and FED assistance.
The program provides effective extension and input distribution services
and, in 1975, reached over 40% of all cotton farms. On these, yields
were close to 900 kg/ha in contrast to 400 kg/ha obtained without improved
inputs. Chad is now the leading cotton exporter in West Africa.
2.06      Irrigated crop production is relatively insignificant, though the
potentially irrigable area is great. About 50,000 ha of paddy and wheat are
grown on land subject to uncontrolled flooding; only about 1,000 ha have been
equipped for controlled irrigation. Current paddy production is about 40,000
tons/year and wheat production is about 7,000 tons/year; in sum, this repre-
sents only about 7% of rainfed foodgrain production in a normal year. Pilot
irrigation schemes are being promoted by Government, with IDA and other for-
eign assistance. The Sategui-Deressia Project (Credit 489-CD) and the Lake
Chad Polders Project (Credit 592-CD) will increase the area equipped for
irrigation by about 6,000 ha, and production of paddy and wheat would thereby
increase by about 15,000 tons/year.
2.07      Livestock (Annex 1, Table 4) becomes increasingly important from
the south of the country towards the central Sahelian zone where milk is a
major item of the subsistence diet. Prior to the drought, the national herd
consisted of about 4.5 million cattle, 5 million sheep and goats, and over 1



- 3 -
million camels, donkeys and horses.  Production was about 57,000 tons of
beef, 15,000 tons of mutton and goat, and over 150,000 tons of milk per
year; about 35,000 tons of beef and 5,000 tons of mutton and goat were
exported, mostly live. The low off-take rates -- about 10% for cattle
and about 30% for sheep and goats -- reflect low standards of animal
husbandry. The 1973 drought caused severe losses of about 30% in cattle,
20% in sheep, and modest losses of about 5% in camels and goats. Biolo-
gical limits to herd reconstitution imply that pre-drought production
levels of meat and milk will not be reached until at least the mid-1980s.
2.08      Almost all prices in Chad are determined by demand and supply
despite Government's attempts to intervene. When livestock prices began to
rise very sharply immediately after the drought, Government declared maximum
producer prices. In practice, however, producer prices continue to be deter-
mined by markets in northeastern Nigeria, which are the main outlets for
slaughterstock. Government is aware that its declared livestock price policy
is both unsatisfactory and impossible to implement and is reviewing it.
Maximum producer prices for the main crops announced in mid-1975 have been
similarly ineffective. The only producer price which Government can and does
control is cotton. The only major subsidy program is for fertilizer and
insecticide and associated distribution costs for cotton. Because of export
taxes and the operation of the price stabilisation fund, however, the net
effect in most years is a transfer from producers to the public sector. The
net incentive to producers is nonetheless attractive.
C. INSTITUTIONS
2.09      The Ministry of Agricultural and Pastoral Development is generally
responsible for the agriculture sector. In contrast to the Government depart-
ments, which generally lack budgetary resources and trained manpower, there
are numerous specialized and relatively autonomous executing agencies which
usually have benefited from foreign technical and financial assistance and
are better staffed. Their performance has, however, been mixed. One of the
main criteria used in the selection of subprojects for the proposed project
was whether they could be implemented by one of the better of the existing
agencies. The five agencies concerned are briefly described below.
2.10      Most extension services and input supplies are provided by a spe-
cialized agency, the Office National du Developpement Rural (ONDR). ONDR
has a payroll of about 1,000, of whom about 700 are field extension staff.
Its field activities are well organized and effective, although limited al-
most exclusively to the Cotton Zone. The purchase, transport and processing
of cotton is undertaken by the Societe Cotoniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD), a
company owned jointly by Goverrinent, Chadian banks, and private foreign
interests, with Government as majority shareholder. COTONTCHAD competently
operates 400 rural cotton markets and 22 ginneries, as well as providing



- 4 -
other services such as dispensaries and road maintenance. The Genie Rural
Department (GR) executes and supervises minor rural works. It has suffered
from an acute lack of trained manpower for many years but is now beginning to
build up a cadre of newly-qualified personnel. GR's performance is already
improving and it could now undertake increased responsibilities. Formal
responsibility for rural water supply is vested in the Service des Amenage-
ments Ruraux d'Hydraulique (SERARHY), a specialized agency under the Genie
Rural Department. SERARHY is an effective, well-managed organization, though
depending almost entirely on foreign assistance for both capital and opera-
ting funds. Another specialized agency, the Centre de Modernisation des
Productions Animales (CMPA), under the Ministry of Agricultural and Pastoral
Development, manufactures animal feed and mineral licks and effectively
provides a range of services to milk and poultry producers around N'Djamena.
2.11      Although it would have no executive role, the Fund's banker would
be the Banque de Developpement du Tchad (BDT). In view of its disappointing
performance and large debts, BDT is now preparing for a reorganization with
French technical assistance. In spite of its shortcomings, BDT is satisfac-
torily channeling IDA funds to the Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD) and to
the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 445-CD).
2.12      The many other institutions concerned with rural development are
generally less effective than those cited above. Among them, the Fonds de
Developpement et d'Action Rurale (FDAR) has very broadly defined respon-
sibilities and its own source of revenue from specific taxes. Its field
activities are, however, modest although it has recently come under new
management and may become increasingly effective in rural development.
D. RURAL SECTOR STRATEGY
2.13      Rainfed crops have by far the best development prospects in the
agricultural sector since most present production is from rainfed agricul-
ture and there is much unexploited potential. Government's objectives
for many years have been to promote cotton and, to a much smaller extent,
groundnuts. Following the recent drought, however, Government is anxious
to safeguard against food shortages in future drought years. The best
safeguards would be, firstly, the promotion of short-cycle drought-resis-
tant varieties and improved cultural practices in the Sahelian zone itself
and, secondly, the improvement of foodcrop productivity in the Cotton Zone.
The latter measure would both secure food supply and free more resources
for cash crops in an appropriate crop rotation system.
2.14      Government wishes to make fuller use of the irrigation potential,
probably in excess of 200,000 ha, in order to diversify crop production,
to provide some insurance against drought and partly, too, to begin to



- 5 -
evolve a high-technology agriculture. Large projects involving a few thou-
sand hectares are economically justified in specific cases but are diffi-
cult to implement and can be very costly per beneficiary family; lower-cost
construction, involving much labor under force account, is now being inves-
tigated at Sategui-Deressia. The merits of smaller, simpler schemes that
would permit farmers to participate in construction, and would not require
sophisticated management, are now appreciated by Governnent. Such schemes
could include small-scale pump irrigation along major rivers, and simple water
control works in bottomlands.
2.15      In the livestock sector, Government's traditional emphasis has been
on animal health services and stock watering, and marketing facilities for
increased herd build-up and higher offtake rates. This policy is now more
sound than ever before; after the drought, the reconstitution of the herd is
the immediate task. Large and sustainable increases in output, however, can
only be achieved by grazing control and improved husbandry. These, in turn,
require Government and pastoralists to create and make function suitable
groupings such as grazing associations. This will not be easy, because pasto-
ralists will have to accept limitations on the size of their individual herds
in order to achieve the best overall stocking rate for the range. Because it
is easier to limit herd growth than to reduce numbers, it is important to
take the opportunity offered by present low stocking rates to encourage pas-
toralists to accept the necessary reforms. At the same time, Government
recognizes the potential of livestock in association with crops in the south,
and intends to promote further the introduction of work oxen into small-
holdings.
2.16      Government's desire to provide better public services to the rural
sector will continue to be largely frustrated by meager revenues. Some
improvement can nonetheless be achieved by increased efforts to obtain payment
from direct beneficiaries of these limited services, particularly village and
pastoral wells. Government recognizes the difficulty of recovering costs for
services that have been provided free in the past, even if only to a limited
number of people, but is now determined to achieve a far greater degree of
cost recovery from specific beneficiaries for specific services rendered.
2.17      The limited capacity of the planning and executing agencies
hinders the implementation of Governnent's generally sound policies for the
rural sector. Indeed, the financial assistance presently available to Chad
exceeds what can be absorbed in properly prepared projects. The proposed
Rural Projects Fund is designed to promote the numerous worthwhile invest-
ment opportunities which, while individually too small to be financed as
separate projects, are by the same token relatively simple to execute.
While the Fund Management Unit would primarily be charged with overseeing
the efficient and rapid implementation of seven well-defined rural invest-
ment projects, it would also be charged with the identification and prepa-
ration of small rural projects for inclusion in a follow-up RPF three years'
hence. In performing this function within the Ministry of Economy, Planning
and Transport, the Fund Management Unit could become a catalyst for a more
effective flow of funds into the rural sector.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
3.01      The project would create a Rural Projects Fund (RPF) to finance
small-scale rural development schemes. The Fund's Management Unit (FMU),
which would be financed by the project, would be established in the Ministry
of Economy, Planning and Transport utilizing a special account at the BDT
(para 2.11). The Project is conceived as a three-year phase of a longer
term program, and preparation of a second phase would be included. The
RPF would finance seven subprojects as follows:
(a) development and initial operation of 42 small-scale
pump irrigation perimeters (about 970 ha irrigated)
and five service centers along the northern Chari
River;
(b) construction of 200 warehouses in the Cotton Zone;
(c) rehabilitation of a pastoral well network (about 300
lined wells) in the Batha prefecture in the Sahelian
Zone;
(d) establishment and initial operation of a tubewell
drilling and open well maintenance unit to serve
villages in three prefectures in the Cotton Zone,
including the rehabilitation of about 146 lined
wells and the installation of about 110 tubewells
to be operated by foot pumps;
(e) minor structural repairs and spot resurfacing spread
over about 1,200 km of feeder roads in the Cotton
Zone;
(f) buildings and equipment for animal-feed production and
poultry marketing near N'Djamena; and,
(g) land improvements and water control works in bottomlands
(about 700 ha) in the Cotton Zone.
As part of the management component, the project would finance FMU personnel
and operating costs, technical assistance, training seminars and consultants'
services.



-7-
B. Detailed Features
Small-Scale Irrigation (Annex 2)
3.02      Seven small pump-irrigation schemes are currently in operation
along the northern Chari River; these schemes are assisted by an ONDR sub-
division, Perimetres Irrigues du Chari (PIC), under a FAC program which
will end in late 1976. Participating village groups have provided unpaid
pump operators and labor for bush clearing, earth works, and construction.
They have also reinvested profits in work oxen and implements. Aluminum
canal linings which have been installed on a trial basis appear to be
satisfactory.
3.03      To continue this development, the subproject would finance over
three years 42 small pump-irrigation perimeters, of 20-25 ha each, on about
970 ha between N'Djamena and Bousso (Map 12058). Annex 2, Table 9 shows
the implementation schedule. Each perimeter would be developed for a vil-
lage community of about 90 families, prepared to volunteer labor for bush
clearing and earthworks. A soil survey to select the most suitable sites
(terms of reference at Annex 2, Appendix 1) is being carried out by con-
sultants financed from the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 445-CD), and a UNDP
health survey, with particular reference to bilharzia and malaria, has al-
ready started in the subproject area. The subproject would provide for
topographical work, supervision of earthworks, pump installation, building
materials and canal linings, and funds to cover the first year's crop inputs
and pump operating costs. The proposed use of aluminum canal lining would
be subject to confirmation based on a review to be carried out by PIC in
late 1976, with due consideration of alternative lining materials.
3.04      The subproject would also develop five service centers to provide
pump maintenance, marketing services, collection of water charges (para 5.06)
and training courses. The cost per irrigated ha, excluding farmers' voluntary
labor but including physical contingencies, would be about CFAF 650,000
(US$2,900). Participating farmers would be allocated 0.25 ha of irrigated
land. The cropping pattern would be 50% cotton followed by fallow, and 50%
sorghum followed by wheat.
3.05      The subproject would be implemented by PIC; the present expatriate
manager would lead a three-man technical assistance team and supporting
staff; all would be financed under the subproject. Irrigation layout and
works would be executed by Genie Rural. The operation and maintenance of each
perimeter would be the responsibility of the village group concerned, with
technical support from the service centers.  During negotiations, Government
agreed that it would cause (a) PIC and Genie Rural to submit an annual work
program through FMU to IDA for approval, not later than two months before the
start of each financial year, and (b) cause ONDR to assure provision of inputs
under the same terms and conditions as are applicable to cotton growers
outside the project area.



-8-
Warehouses (Annex 3)
3.06      The sup-y;ly  f crop inputs -- mainly seed, fertilizer and insecti-
cides for cotton ln the southwest of the country-- is organized by ONDR.  From
central depots, inputs are transported as backloads on COTONTCHAD trucks to
the 400 cotton markets where they are stored for up to five months, usually
in the2open air. ONDR's present covered storage in rural areas is only
3500 m .
3.07   2 The subproject would provide for the construction of 822warehouses
of 90 m  and 118 warehouses of 60 m , or a total area of 14,460 m ; a new
warehouse would be built at about half of the existing cotton markets. The
newly-created capacity would be fully utilized by 1980 on the conservative
assumption that input use will increase by 9%/year (Annex 1, Table 3). The
warehouses would be built to standard Genie Rural designs. Sites have been
provisionally identified and a final schedule would be determined by ONDR
and submitted to FMU for approval.  Ail construction would be undertaken by
contractors subject to the general procurement provisions at para. 4.07 and
the particular provision that local building contractors would receive 7 1/2%
preference. ONDR would (a) employ GR as supervising engineer; (b) become
the owner of the warehouses on completion; and (c) assume responsibility
for maintenance thereafter. Construction costs, including engineering
supervision and a 10% physical contin ency on materials, would be
CFAF 2.8 million (U§$12,700) per 90 m store, and CFAF 1.93 miliion
(USS8,600) per 60 m  store, or about CFAF 32,000 (US$140) per m  of storage
area.
Pastoral Wells: Batha Prefecture (Annex 4)
3.08      This subproject would follow-up Credit 309-CD, which inter alia
partially equipped and met the initial operating costs of the SERARHY well
unit at Ati. There are over 300 modern, lined wells in Batha prefecture; at
present costs, these represent an investment of about CFAF 2 billion (US$9
million). Present capacity utilization is about 75%. Two recent sample
surveys indicate that about half the existing wells need regular maintenance
every three years, about one quarter require moderate repairs, and the
remainder require major repairs or even reconstruction.  Such a rehabilitation
program would raise the existing well network to 95% of capacity, which would
permit a 2% annual growth of the herd owned by 40,000 pastoral families.
3.09      The subproject would provide the SERARHY well unit at Ati with
the capacity to carry out this program. Funds would be provided for three
vehicles, equipment (three derricks, three clamshell grabs, and other small
items), a senior well-digger who is expected to be an expatriate, and oper-
ating costs during three years. During negotiations, assurances were ob-
tained from Government that: (a) an annual well maintenance, repair and



- 9 -
reconstruction program would be submitted to IDA for approval not less than
two months before the start of each financial year; (b) to ensure optimum
ecological siting of new wells in Batha, any construction of such new wells
would be based on the proposals following the range and pastoral survey
provided under Credit 309-CD (Annex 4, Appendix 1); and, (c) to limit over-
grazing, pastoral groups would be officially recognized and given individual
land use and watering rights.
Village Water Supplies (Annex 5)
3.10       The supply of drinking water is insufficient and usually unhealthy in
many villages in Chad. The subproject would establish, staff, and equip a
new SERARHY unit at Moundou, which would rehabilitate about 150 existing open
wells and install about 110 tubewells. The latter would provide good water to
55,000 people in the southwest prefectures of East Logone, West Logone and
Tandjile (Map 12058), each tubewell serving 500 people. All tubewells would
be equipped with pedal-operated pumps, which have been adequately tested in
other Sahelian countries. Repair of existing wells and installation of
tubewells would be the cheapest way of providing water; including physical
contingencies, each well repair would cost about CFAF 1.28 million (US$5,700)
and each tubewell about CFAF 1.84 million (US$8,200), or CFAF 2,560 (US$11)
per head and CFAF 3,680 (US$16) per head respectively.
3.11       The new SERARHY unit would comprise two brigades, one for wells
and one for tubewells, both under the direction of a drilling foreman who
is expected to be an expatriate. The tubewell brigade would also train
responsible villagers in simple pump maintenance and provide them with a
stock of essential spares.
3.12       The subproject would be implemented over a three-year period ; the
first project year being devoted to organizing and equipping the Moundou
unit and to preparing a well inventory. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from Government that an annual well repair and tubewell
installation program would be submitted through FMU to IDA for approval,
not less than two months before the start of each financial year; and that
final beneficiaries would be required to contribute 10% of total subproject
cost.
Feeder Road Improvement (Annex 6)
3.13       The Second Highway Project (Credit 490-CD) included the improvement
of feeder roads in the Cotton Zone with a traffic volume in 1973/74 of more
than 2,000 tons/year, mostly cotton. Since then, cotton output has increased
by 60% and more roads now need improvement. The subproject would carry
out minor spot works spread over some 1,200 km of feeder roads in the Cotton
Zone including restoration of about 80 bridges, culverts and fords, largely by
manual methods and selective regravelling and grading.



- 10 -
3.14      The subproject would be implemented for PWD by COTONTCHAD under an
extension of the arrangement, which is acceptable to IDA and has been con-
firmed during negotiations, devised for the Second Highway Project. Work
would be directed by COTONTCHAD's Chief Road Supervisor, assisted by two
supervisors seconded from PWD, and carried out on force account.
3.15      Two structures teams would be equipped with transport, hand tools,
and a small concrete mixer. The resurfacing team would be provided with
existing PWD equipment (grader, loader, three dump trucks, water bowser and
compactor); necessary repairs to this equipment would be carried out under the
subproject. COTONTCHAD would return the resurfacing plant to PWD after works
are completed at the end of the first project year or at such time as it
is needed for the upcoming third Highway Project.  During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained from Government that PWD would submit an annual work
program through FMU to IDA for approval, not less than two months before the
start of each financial year.
Animal-Feed Production and Marketing of Poultry Products (Annex 7)
3.16      The Centre de Modernisation des Productions Animales (CMPA) operates
the country's only animal-feed production plant and effectively provides exten-
sion, inputs, and marketing services to over 800 milk and poultry producers
around N'Djamena. Further expansion of these activities requires a larger
feed-plant and more storage for eggs and poultry. CMPA also produces mineral
licks in small volume although the product is too fragile for transport over
long distances. Increased capacity and improved quality are required to
implement a recently-signed agreement with Swiss Technical Corporation, which
provides for the distribution of 700 tons of mineral licks, of which 80% would
be distributed in the Sahelian zone under a diminishing subsidy program.
3.17      The subproject would finance expansion of the feed plant's capacity
from 1,500 to 3,000 tons/year, and provide facilities for mineral lick pro-
duction of 250 tons/year.  Facilities for youltry and eggs would be extended
and upgraded, including principally a 50 m cold store. The CMPA would
manage these facilities and would provide all working capital. CMPA's general
manager is provided under a French technical assistance contract, which
will continue at least through 1977. A decree amending CMPA's statutes, and
acceptable to IDA, is about to be enacted.
Bottomland Development (Annex 8)
3.18      There are some 40,000 ha of bottomland in the southwest of the
country which are presently underused. The subproject, the first of its kind
in Chad, would carry out simple land improvements and water-control works on
about 700 ha within a quadrilateral zone: Moundou-Beinamar-Kelo-Pala (Map
12058). This area is relatively densely populated, includes most of the



- il -
bottomland that is already being cultivated, and recently has been aerial-
photographed. The works would consist of land smoothing, construction of
contour dikes, culvert drains, and field bunds, which would divide the bottom-
lands into 0.2 ha paddy fields. The individual areas to be developed would
vary from 5-20 ha, averaging 10 ha with 50 participating farmers.
3.19      The subproject would provide equipment for preparing land for con-
tour dikes and field bunds, materials for culvert drains, and skilled labor
for their installation. Labor required for building the bunds would be
provided by participating farmers. Extension advisors for the first year
of construction and operation of each area, survey teams for topographical
work, and implementation teams for setting out and supervising the works,
as well as the corresponding transport, would be provided under the sub-
projects. Costs per ha, excluding farmers' voluntary labor but including
physical contingencies, would be about CFAF 210,000 (US$930).
3.20      Works under the subproject would be executed by Genie Rural.  A
rural engineer provided under the technical assistance component for three
years, would select the sites after photo-interpretation and ground recon-
naissance, plan and supervise the execution of bottomland improvements,
and ensure that the local survey and implementation teams receive sufficient
practical experience to enable them to continue unaided after project com-
pletion. ONDR extension agents would obtain farmers' consent to develop the
bottomlands and their cooperation in construction works; the village would
allocate plots to individuals. Maintenance of field bunds would be carried
out by farmers under the direction of the ONDR extension agents. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that Governnent would cause Genie
Rural to submit through FMU, no later than two months before the start of
each financial year, an annual work program for IDA's approval.
Consultant Services
3.21      The project would provide for 16 man-months of consultant services
to assist FMU in the preparation of subprojects to be included in a follow-
up project.  These funds would provide for a team of three specialists (Agro-
nomist, Agricultural Economist and Rural Engineer) to be employed for about
four months, and to hire other specialists for shorter assignments. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from Government that the terms of
reference of consultants to be employed under the RPF as well as their quali-
fications and experience would be acceptable to IDA.
C. Organization and Management
3.22      Government would create a Fund Management Unit (FMU, Annex 9) in
the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport to manage the Rural Projects
Fund and funds would be disbursed through an account with the BDT. The
FMU would work in close collaboration with the Office of Foreign Aid Manage-
ment which also keeps the Government account for the Livestock Project (Credit



- 12 -
309-CD) and the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 445-CD); an additional account-
ant would be provided for this office. A Chadian Fund Manager, experienced
in rural development management, would have an internationally-recruited
deputy experienced in project planning and management, and supporting staff.
The Fund Manager would report to an Interministerial Governing Committee,
consisting of the ministers or their representatives of Economy, Planning
and Transport; Agricultural and Pastoral Development; Civil Engineering, Mines
and Geology; Finance, Buildings and Equipment; and Tourism, Artisanat and
Natural Resources; the Director of Planning, who would be the Secretary; and
the Fund Manager, who would be Deputy Secretary. The Committee would meet
quarterly. Government and IDA have discussed a draft decree creating FMU and
the Committee; it would be a condition of effectiveness that FMU and the
Interministerial Committee had formally been established.
3.23      FMU would be the main instigator of project implementation.  It
would review subproject work programs (with power to revise or delete com-
ponents), as well as budgets and progress reports, bidding procedures and
contracts. FMU would introduce, within three months of project effectiveness
and in agreement with IDA, a monitoring and reporting system along the lines
proposed in Annex 11, and be responsible for timely reporting thereafter.
Assurances in this regard were obtained during negotiations. It would,
with the aid of consultants where appropriate (para 3.21), identify and
prepare subprojects for inclusion in a follow-up project. A detailed imple-
mentations schedule is at Annex 10.
3.24      Key project staff would be:  (i) the Fund Manager, (ii) the Deputy
Fund Manager, (iii) the three-man technical assistance team for PIC (para
3.05), (iv) the rural engineer in charge of bottomland development (para
3.20), and (v) the SERARHY Unit Chiefs at Ati and Moundou (paras 3.09 and
3.11); the qualifications and responsibilities of these eight key personnel
are at Annex 9. The Fund Manager would be Chadian and other key personnel
would be expected to be expatriates. The latter are either senior managers
or technicians of a type currently unavailable or in critically short supply
in Chad. The Agricultural Projects Management Unit of the Bank's Western
Africa Regional Office would assist in recruitment. An additional expatriate
would be employed as the chief mechanic of the SERARHY bases at Abeche and
Ati. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the
Fund Manager would be appointed after consultation with IDA, and that all
expatriate key project staff would be employed under terms of reference, and
with qualifications and experience, acceptable to IDA. A satisfactory can-
didate for the Fund Manager post has been nominated by Government and it
would be a condition of effectiveness that Governnent appointed the Fund
Manager. Conditions of disbursement for subprojects would be that appoint-
ments had been made as follows: (i) small-scale irrigation - Chief of PIC;
(ii) pastoral wells - Chief of Ati Unit of SERARHY; (iii) village water
supply - Chief of Moundou Unit; (iv) bottomland development - rural engineer
charged with project implementation.
3.25      The seven RPF expatriate staff who would work in subproject execut-
ing agencies would not only provide on-the-job technical training to local
staff; they would also be specifically required (Annex 9) to seek out poten-
tial managers from among the senior local staff and to ensure that they be



- 13 -
given a thorough grounding in such elementary but essential management
procedures as, for instance, the planning of maintenance schedules, and
the control and provision of an adequate stock of materials and spare parts.
In addition, annual two-week seminars would be organized by FMU for about
60 participants from ONDR, SERARHY, and Genie Rural. These seminars would
deal with work planning, budgeting and technical matters; they would be
planned by FMU with the assistance of the Training Unit that would be set
up in the Ministry of Agricultural and Pastoral Development under the proposed
third IDA Education Project. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that the proposed curricula would be forwarded by FMU to IDA for approval.
In the small-scale irrigation subproject, field extension staff and farmers
would receive specific training in animal traction and pump operation and
routine maintenance. The input supply/extension organizer responsible would
be assisted by the Ministry's Training Unit in the physical design of the
service centers and in the content of the training courses.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
4.01      Total project costs net-of-taxes for the three-year disbursement
period, 1976-79, excluding the farmers' voluntary labor contribution, are
estimated at CFAF 3,015 milion (US$13.4 million) with a foreign exchange
component of 55%. Project goods would be imported duty-free and this was
confirmed during negotiations. Costs are detailed in Annexes 2-9, are
aggregated in Annex 10 and are summarized on the following page.
4.02      Cost estimates are based on prices projected to mid-1976, and
include (a) physical contingencies of 10-15% on all items other than vehi-
cles and equipment, for which specifications and quantities required are
well established, and (b) expected price increases compounded at the follow-
ing annual rates of increase for both local and foreign costs: civil works
13% in 1976; 12%/year in 1977 to 1979; all other costs 9% in 1976; 8%/year
in 1977-79. Total expected price increases amount to 21% of base costs.
Costs of expatriate personnel including full benefits and allowances aver-
age US$5,200 per man-month, those of short-term consultants average US$7,000.



- 14 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
PROJECT COMPONENT                              ---    CFAF Million -----       ------US $ Thousand -----       Percent of    Percent
Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign   Total        Total Base    Foreign
Cost           Exchange
Small Scale Irrigation
Vehicles, Equiipment, W,rk Oxen              31         89      120        138        395       533                          74
Civil Works                                  64        109      173        284        485       769                          63
Expatriate Staff and Consultants             27       106       133        120        471       591                          80
Operating Costs and Working Capital          92        41       133        409        182       591                          31
Subtotal                               214        345       559        951      1.533    2.484            24            62
Warehouses                                      334        122       456      1.485        542    2,027            20            27
Pastoral Wells - Batha
Vehicles and Equipment                        8         32       40         36        142       178                          80
Civil Works                                 23         40        63        102        178       280                          63
Expatriate Staff                             12        48        60         53        213       266                          80
Operating Costs                             48         30        78        213        134       347                          38
Subtotal                                91        150       241        404        667    1,071            10            62
Village Water Supplies
Vehicles and Equipment                       27       144       171        120        640       760                          84
Civil Works                                 32         86       118        142        382       524                          73
Expatriate Staff                             9         34        43         40        151       191                          80
Operating Costs                              71        39       110        316        173       489                          35
Subtotal                               139        303       442        618      1 346    1,964            19            69
Feeder Road Improvement
Vehicles and Equipiment                       5         30       35         22        134       156                          86
Civil Works                                 29         66        95        129        293       422                          69
Operating Costs                             90         49       139        400        218       618                          35
Subtotal                               124        145       269        551        645    1,196            12            54
Animal Feed/Poultry
Equipment                                    il        47        58         49        209       258                          81
Civil Works                                  4         13        17         18         57        75                          76
Subtotal                                15         60        75         67        266       333            3            80
Bottomland Development
Vehicles and Equipment                        3         14        17        14         62        76                          82
Civil Works                                   6          6       12         26         27        53                          50
Expatriate Staff                              9        34        43         40        151       191                          80
Operating Costs                             38          22       60        169         98       267                          37
Subtotal                                56         76       132        249        338       587            6            58
E'und Manazement Unit
Vehicles and Equipment                        1          4        5          4         18        22                          80
Expatriate Staff and Consultants             18        72        90         80        320       400                          80
Operating Costs                             32          5        37        143         22       165                          14
Subtotal                                51         81       132        227        360      587             6            61
Total Base Cost                          1.024      1,282    2.306       4,552      5,697   10,249           100            56
Physical Contingencies                      91        123       214        404        547       951           (9)           58
Expected Price Increases                   231        264       495      1.027      1.173    2,200           (21)           53
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       1,346      1,669    3,015       5,983      7,417   13,400                          55



- 15 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      The financing plan is detailed in Annex 10, Table 2 and summarized
below:
Project Component                  IDA         FAC        Beneficiaries   Total
---------US$ Million----------------
Small-Scale Irrigation             1.9         0.5               0.1         2.5
Warehouses                         2.0          -                 -          2.0
Pastoral Wells-Batha                1.1         -                 -          1.1
Village Water Supplies              1.8         -                0.2         2.0
Feeder Road Improvement             1.2         -                 -          1.2
Animal Feed/Poultry                0.3          -                 -          0.3
Bottomland Development             0.5         0.1                -          0.6
Fund Management Unit               0.5         0.1                -          0.6
Total Base Cost           9.3         0.7              0.3        10.3
Unallocated               2.7         0.3              0.1         3.1
Total Cost               12.0         1.0              0.4        13.4
Percentage                         90%           7%                3%          100%
4.04      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$12.0 million be made to
Government on standard terms to finance 90% of total project costs. The
credit would cover 91% of foreign exchange costs estimated at US$6.7 million
(CFAF 1.5 billion) and 88% of the local costs which amount to US$5.3 million
(CFAF 1.2 billion). FAC would contribute almost US$1.0 million (CFAF 215
million) or 7% of project costs. The FAC contribution would be made available
pari passu at the rate of 20% of costs for two subprojects: small-scale
irrigation and bottomland development, as well as for the FMU. The remaining
project costs, (3%) estimated at US$0.4 million (CFAF 95 million), would be
contributed by beneficiaries in the small-scale irrigation and village water
supply subprojects. In addition, farmers would contribute unpaid voluntary
labor valued at about US$0.6 million for bush clearing, and earth and construc-
tion works in the small-scale irrigation and bottomland subprojects.
4.05      The IDA Credit would be channelled through an account to be opened
in the name of the FMU at the BDT. FMU would, upon review and approval of
investment proposals, disburse these funds as grants to the agencies charged
with the execution of the seven subprojects. Cash contributions to project
costs by beneficiaries would either be through on-farm investments in the
small-scale irrigation subproject or through small cash payments (10% of cost)
in the village water supply subproject, to be collected by village chiefs
and passed on directly to SERARHY.



- 16 -
4.06      Experience with ongoing projects indicates that cash availability
is a major factor limiting the pace of project implementation and consequently
the rate of IDA credit disbursements.   Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions that, immediately after credit effectiveness, an initial IDA disburse-
ment of US$0.5 million would be made into the RPF account at BDT which would
serve as a revolving fund to finance project expenditures. This procedure
would be similar to that adopted for the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 445-CD).
IDA would replenish the revolving fund upon receipt of satisfactory evidence
that such expenditures were eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
credit. Should, however, any disbursement out of the RPF account fail to
meet this condition, Government would be under the obligation to deposit the
corresponding amount into that account. This was agreed during negotia-
tions. Meantime, IDA has extended a US$0.5 million Project Preparation
Advance to Government on October 6, 1976, to be refinanced under the Credit.
C. Procurement
4.07      Procurement of vehicles and equipment (estimated cost US$1.8 mil-
lion), building construction (estimated cost US$2.2 million), and materials
for force account works (estimated cost US$1.6 million), would be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines in the
case of contracts over US$50,000; for building construction contracts, local
contractors would receive 7-1/2% preference. In the case of contracts of
less than US$50,000 but more than US$10,000, procurement would be through
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA.
For contracts under US$10,000, direct competitive purchasing would be
employed. The services of expatriate staff and consultants (estimated
cost US$1.6 million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to
IDA.
D. Disbursement
4.08      In respect of small-scale irrigation, bottomland development and
the FMU, the IDA credit would be disbursed pari passu with the FAC grant in
the ratio of 4:1. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to
cover:
(a) 80% of expendictares for vehicles and equipment for those sub-
projects with FAC co-financing except for on-farm investments
in the small-scale irrigation subproject - US$0.4 million, and
100% for the other subprojects - US$1.4 million; total disburse-
ment on vehicles and equipment - US$1.8 million.
(b)  80% of expenditures for civil works, including the cost of
construction materiais and skilled labor, for those sub-
projects with FAC co-financing - US$0.7 million, and 100%
for the other subprojects - US$3.3 million; total disburse-
ment on civil works - US$4.0 million.



- 17 -
(c) 80% of expenditures for expatriate staff and consultants
for those subprojects with FAC co-financing - US$0.9
million, and 100% for the other subprojects - US$0.5 mil-
lion; total disbursements on expatriate staff and consultants -
US$1.4 million.
(d) 80% of local salaries for FMU ONDR and Genie Rural project
staff - US$0.4 million, and 100% of local staff salaries for
SERARHY and COTONTCHAD project staff - US$0.5 million; total
-disbursement on local staff salaries - US$0.9 million.
(e) 80% of operating costs other than local salaries for those sub-
projects with FAC co-financing - US$0.3 million, and 100% for the
other subprojects except for village water supplies - US$0.6 million
total disbursement on operating costs - US$0.9 million.
(f) 40% of operating costs other than local salaries for the village
water supplies subproject - US$0.1 million.
(g) 80% of working capital required for input supplies (mainly
fuel, seeds and fertilizers) for the first year of each new
perimeter in the small-scale irrigation subproject - US$0.2
million.
Up to US$0.5 million would be used for refinancing the Project Preparation
Advance for this project, and US$2.2 million would be unallocated. Annex 10,
Table 3 shows the estimated quarterly disbursements. Any remaining undisbursed
funds would be made available for new subprojects to be identified and prepared
by FMU and to be approved by IDA.
4.09      Except for the US$0.5 million revolving fund (para 4.06) for which
certification of expenditures would be made available after withdrawal from
the Credit, disbursements against (a), (b), (c) and (g) above would be fully
documented. Disbursements against (d), (e), and (f) would be made against
certificates of expenditures, the documentation of which would not be sub-
mitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower and available for
inspection by IDA supervision missions.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.10      The FMU would set up an accounting system which would reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained and sound practices, a true and fair
view of the use of funds for the different subprojects and for FMU itself.
Separate accounts for each subproject would be kept by the service responsible
for its implementation, i.e. (i) ONDR for the small-scale irrigation and
warehouses subprojects; (ii) SERARHY for the Batha wells and village water
supply subprojects; (iii) COTONTCHAD for the rural roads sub-project; (iv)
CMPÀ for the animal-feed and marketing-of-poultry products subproject; and
(v) Genie Rural for the bottomland development subproject. BDT would keep
separate accounts for the project funds it would handle. All accounts would
be audited annually. The project would provide for the cost of audit fees.



- 18 
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that: (a)
the RPF accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b) the accounts for each subproject would be audited by the Government
Financial Controller; (c) the auditor's reports would be submitted by FMU to
IDA within four months of the close of each project financial year; and (d)
the report of the auditors would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA
may reasonably request.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Yields and Outputs
5.01      Only three of the seven RPF subprojects are directly productive:
small-scale irrigation, bottomland development, and pastoral wells. For
small-scale irrigation, full yields would be obtained in the third year of
operation of each perimeter and the subproject would reach full development
in Year 5. In the light of experience in existing perimeters, where each
farmer cultivates only 0.25 ha under irrigation, in addition to his continuing
rainfed farming, all irrigated output would be incremental. For bottomlands,
where no change in farm inputs is envisaged and about half the area to be
improved is already under cultivation, with paddy yields of 800 kg/ha, full
yields would be obtained in the first year of operation of each perimeter.
In practice, it may well be possible to obtain an early maize crop before rice
planting or a quick-maturing legume like cowpeas after the rice harvest. In
the assessment of subproject outputs and benefits, however, these possibili-
ties are ignored. Based on similar conditions in Chad and in neighboring
countries, estimated yields and outputs at full development are summarized
below (Annexes 2 and 8):
Incremental
Yield       Area       Output
(tons/ha)     (ha)       (tons)
Small-scale irrigation
Seed cotton            2.0         480         960
Sorghum                1.5         480         720
Wheat                  2.0         480         960
Bottomland Development
already cultivated    1.2          350         140
paddy area
newly cultivated
paddy area          1.2         350        420
For the pastoral wells subproject, offtake is assumed to be unchanged at
13% and 250 kg/head liveweight for cattle, and 30% and 15 kg/head live-
weight for sheep and goats. Herd numbers would increase by almost 20% over 11
years, by 135,000 cattle and 140,000 sheep and goats; increased production
would amount to 2,200 tons and about 300 tons of carcass meat respectively as



- 19 -
well as 3,700 tons of milk. Incremental production would be substantially
greater since, without the subproject, animal numbers would decline to about
30% of current levels over 16 years in line with the the deterioration of
unmaintained wells. The animal feed/poultry subproject would increase feed
production capacity by 1,500 tons/year and mineral lick capacity by 250
tons/year.
B. Markets and Prices
5.02      Since incremental production of seed cotton for export, and sor-
ghum and paddy for domestic consumption, would be, in each case, only about
1% of current national production, no marketing problems are anticipated.
In addition, incremental wheat production of 1,000 tons/year would substi-
tute for only a small part of imports; even after the Polders Project
(Credit 592-CD) has increased wheat output by 3,000 tons/year, the country
would remain an importer of about 10,000 tons/year. Incremental livestock
production arising from the pastoral wells subproject in Batha would be
about 4% of current national production. The better quality stock would
find a ready export market, mainly in Nigeria, while other stock would
enter the domestic market. Incremental milk production would be consumed
by the people in the subproject area.
5.03      The volume of produce to be marketed from individual irrigation
perimeters would be very small. The ONDR service centers would therefore
establish, at each center, a new cotton market to be operated by Cotontchad,
and also organize the bulking of wheat and sorghum to facilitate marketing.
Incremental paddy and livestock would be marketed through traditional chan-
nels, as at present.
5.04      Producer prices are fixed by Government for cotton (CFAF 43/kg
at all markets), wheat (CFAF 50/kg delivered N'Djamena mill) and paddy
(CFAF 25/kg delivered FDAR mills at Bongor and Lai). Almost all paddy,
however, by-passes the mills, because the price at rural markets is about
CFAF 35/kg. Actual prices provide adequate incentives (Annexes 2 and 8).
Government's attempts to intervene in sorghum and cattle pricing have been
largely ineffective; the producer price for sorghum in the northern Chari
Valley is about CFAF 30/kg and the producer price for cattle, mainly deter-
mined by exports to Nigeria, is about CFAF 20,000/head or about CFAF 80/kg
liveweight.
C. Farmer Benefits
5.05      Direct income benefits would accrue to participants in the small-
scale irrigation, bottomlands and pastoral wells subprojects. For small-
scale irrigation, the annual net farm incomes of about 3,900 families would



- 20 -
increase (Annex 2, Table 6) from about CFAF 25,000 (US$112) to about CFAF
36,000 (US$159); in contrast to present income, which fluctuates widely with
weather, the incremental income would be stable. The net income per labor day
worked in the irrigation perimeters (CFAF 183) would be about the same as that
obtained from rainfed farming in the same region, but 80% of the former would
be marketed in contrast to 35% of the latter. For bottomlands, the annual net
farm incomes of about 3,500 families would increase (Annex 8, para 18) from
about CFAF 47,000 (US$209) to about CFAF 52,400 (US$233). The net income per
man-day worked in newly-cultivated bottomlands (CFAF 440) would be about
double that obtained from dryland cultivation in the same region. In the
pastoral wells subproject, the 40,000 pastoral families would receive addi-
tional cash incomes (Annex 4, para 11) of CFAF 415 million (US$1.8 million)
from livestock sales, and would benefit from increased consumption of milk
worth CFAF 92 million (US$0.4 million) at full production in Year 11. This
would be equivalent to increased annual family cash incomes, net of CFAF 50
million (US$0.2 million) per year for the operating costs of the SERARHY
base, of CFAF 9,100 (US$41) and increased annual family subsistence of
CFAF 2,300 (US$10).
D. Financial Implications for Government
5.06      Only four subprojects would require recurrent finance from Govern-
ment after project completion, namely small-scale irrigation, pastoral wells,
village water supplies and feeder road improvement. For small-scale irriga-
tion, farmers would--after the first year of operation--pay not only for all
farm inputs but also a water charge sufficient to cover fuel, lubricants and
pump repairs and, through the operation of a sinking fund, pump replacement
after six years. The annual operating cost of PIC (CFAF 41 million or
US$180,000) would be payable to ONDR by Government, which would recover
sufficient funds from cotton export taxes and its share of COTONTCHAD profits
arising from incremental cotton production under the project (Annex 2).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would (a) cause
farmers to pay water charges sufficient to cover fuel, lubricants, pump
repairs and replacement, and (b) finance the operating casts of PIC after
project completion.
5.07      In the pastoral wells subproject, the annual operating costs of
the SERARHY base would be about CFAF 50 million (US$0.2 million) after project
completion. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
would (a) undertake to pay the operating costs of the SERARHY base after
project completion, and (b) prepare detailed proposals for cost recovery
from pastoralists once the studies financed under 309-CD are completed and
no later than two years after RPF effectiveness.
5.08      The SERARHY village water supply unit at Moundou would have
annual costs for pump maintenance and replacement of about CFAF 6 million
(US$27,000). Such funds would be raised by levying full-cost charges for



- 21 -
pump repair or replacement which would be collected by village representa-
tives prior to starting the repairs or replacing the pump. During negotia-
tions, an assurance was obtained from Government that the full cost of pump
repairs and replacement be recovered from beneficiary village communities.
5.09      Maintenance of feeder roads improved under RPF would involve two
gradings/year at a cost of about CFAF 6 million (US$27,000), and this would
continue to be a Government obligation.  Government would draw funds from
the CSPC, which would receive the major share of the benefits from the sub-
project-, and this was confirmed during negotiations.
5.10      The Government cash flow, (Annex 10, Table 5) would become posi-
tive in Year 3. The surplus of about CFAF 140 million per year through
Year 10, is greater than the costs which, in principle, the beneficiaries
should bear; even if they fail to bear those costs therefore, the Government
cash flow would still show a small surplus.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The direct beneficiaries of four subprojects would be small farmers
and pastoralists, in sum about 73,000 families: small-scale irrigation (3,900
families); bottomland development (3,500 families); pastoral wells (40,000
families); and, village water supplies (25,600 families). The other three
subprojects would strengthen the respective executing agencies, and indirect
benefits would accrue to many rural families. Although some people would
benefit from more than one subproject, and the value of the benefit per
recipient varies greatly between subprojects, well over 400,000 rural people,
or over 10% of the rural population, would receive benefits from the RPF.
6.02      A major benefit of the RPF would be the on-the-job experience
acquired by local staff and institutions in the implementation of simple,
easily replicated rural works. At project completion, local staff are ex-
pected to be able to handle any additional work in small-scale irrigation
and bottomland development and the operation of at least one of the two
SERARHY bases.  The FMU would strengthen the planning and managerial capa-
city of the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Planning in the field of rural
development. This should entail more rigorous project selection and more
effective foreign assistance for rural development.
6.03      Economic rates of return have been calculated at current and pro-
jected economic prices for cotton, wheat, rice, sorghum and livestock products.
The foreign exchange component of costs and benefits was increased by a factor
of 1.25 which reflects the existing tariffs and subsidies on international
transactions. Farmers' labor required for construction during the dry season
- in irrigation perimeters, bottomlands, and feeder road improvement-was val-
ued at zero, since the volume of work required in any particular locality or
of any particular family would be very small indeed, and exclusively in the
dry season. In addition, farmers would receive no remuneration for their
labor in construction of irrigation perimeters and bottomlands. Detailed



- 22 -
assumptions for each subproject are indicated in the respective annexes.
Since the animal feed/poultry subproject provides small inputs to separate
ongoing activities, and its cost is only 3% of total project cost, no rate
of return was calculated for this subproject. Each of the three major pieces
of equipment to be provided would, however, have a payback period of 3-4 years
(Annex 7), calculated on the basis of unit cost savings on immediately fore-
seeable throughput. No meaningful rate of return could be estimated for the
village water supplies subproject. Estimated rates of return for the other
subprojects are as follows:
Economic Rate of Return
Share
Project                    Costs     Benefits
Cost    Base Cost  Life    Base   plus 10%   minus 10%
(US$ million)   (%)       (years)  ---------------%-----------
Small-scale irrigation       2.5        24       20        il         8         7
Warehouses                   2.0        19        10       20        18        18
Pastoral wells               1.1        il       20        19        19        19
Feeder road improvement    1.2          12        8        19        15        15
Bottomland development       0.6         6       10        14        il        12
Sum of the above, includ-
ing overhead cost of FMU   8.0          78       20        17        16       16
Although the subprojects in aggregate are not sensitive to changes in cost or
benefit streams, there are considerable differences between the subprojects.
The small-scale irrigation subproject, in particular, is sensitive to changes
in cost or benefit streams. It is unlikely, however, that such unfavorable
changes would arise (Annex 2, para 32), partly because the benefits have been
estimated conservatively and partly, too, because the senior expatriate staff
member responsible for subproject execution is presently on the job and keen
to stay on it; the risk indicated at para 6.04 does not apply. Moreover,
the base rate of return does not capture the training effect of the high-cost
expatriates. But above all, the existing seven perimeters were set up with,
for Chad, an unprecedented degree of participation from the beneficiaries and
further village groups have offered to make a similar contribution to new
perimeters. This suggests that small irrigation perimeters correspond to the
perceived needs of farmers and that they will make special efforts to ensure
that the perimeters are farmed successfully.
Risks
6.04      The landlocked location and internal security problem which, in
turn, make it difficult to attract good expatriate personnel, entail problems
for all projects in Chad. One risk particular to the RPF is that the success
of three of the seven discrete, independent subprojects depends on expatriates



- 23 -
in key positions that are yet to be recruited. The chances that the appoin-
tees prove less than adequate are probably greater than in most other coun-
tries and the consequences of a poor appointment to a particular subproject
are probably more far-reaching than in other more integrated projects. Par-
ticularly intensive efforts, including recourse to APMU, are therefore being
made to recruit good expatriates. On the other hand, the discrete nature of
the subprojects implies that failure of one subproject would not have serious
repercussions on the others.
6.05      An additional risk arises from the impossibility of undertaking
rural works outside the dry season (November/May). In order to minimize
this risk and to ensure that part or even all of the first working season
is not lost, therefore, recourse is being made to the Project Preparation
Facility (para. 4.06), to get the project geared up to start work in October
1976.
6.06      Problems of fee collection from the direct beneficiaries can be
anticipated for the pastoral wells and village water supplies subprojects
and, although to a lesser extent, for the small-scale irrigation subproject.
Government has given assurances that payment would be enforced from bene-
ficiaries for services rendered; the risk that the political power to do so
may in the event be lacking cannot be entirely eliminated.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(i) all expatriate key project staff and all consultants would
be employed under terms of reference, and with qualifica-
tions, experience and conditions of employment acceptable
to IDA (paras 3.21, 3.24);
(ii) FMU would introduce, within three months of project effec-
tiveness and in agreement with IDA, a monitoring and
reporting system along the lines proposed in Annex 11,
and be responsible for timely reporting thereafter (para
3.23);
(iii)  for any disbursement out of the revolving fund that may be
found to be ineligible for financing under the Credit,
Government would deposit the corresponding amount into that
account (para. 4.06);
(iv) accounts would be audited as specified at para. 4.10;



- 24 -
(v) respective executing agencies would submit an annual work
program through FMU to IDA for approval not later than
two months before the start of each financial year
(paras 3.05, 3.09, 3.12, 3.15, 3.20);
(vi) Government would finance operating costs after subproject
completion (paras. 5.06, 5.07, 5.09);
(vii) concerning small-scale irrigation:
(a) ONDR would be caused to assure provision of
inputs under the same terms and conditions as
are applicable to cotton growers outside the
project area (para 3.05);
(b) farmers would be caused to pay water charges
sufficient to cover fuel, lubricants, pump
repairs and, through the operation of a sinking
fund, pump replacement after six years (para 5.06);
(viii) concerning pastoral wells:
(a) any reconstruction or new construction of wells
would be based on the proposals made in the
range and pastoral survey financed under Credit
309-CD (para 3.09);
(b) Government would submit, based on the livestock
taxation study and the range and pastoral survey
financed under Credit 309-CD, detailed proposals
for cost recovery from pastoralists within two
years of RPF effectiveness to IDA for its approval
(para 5.07);
(ix) concerning village water supplies:
(a) final beneficiaries would be required to con-
tribute 10% of total subproject cost (para
3.12);
(b) the full cost of pump maintenance and replacement
would be recovered from beneficiary village
communities (para 5.08);
(x)  concerning feeder road improvement:  the subproject would
be implemented for PWD by COTONTCHAD under an extension
of the arrangement devised for the second Highway Project,
which is acceptable to IDA (para 3.14);



- 25 -
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(i) the Fund Management Unit and the Inter-Ministerial
Governing Committee had been established (para
3.22);
(ii) the Fund Manager had been appointed (para 3.24);
(iii)  an account in the name of FMU had been established
at the BDT (para 4.05);
(iv) written confirmation had been received with regard
to FAC financing.
7.03      An additional condition for disbursement on particular subprojects
would be that the appointment of key personnel as detailed in para 3.24 had
been made.
7.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a credit on standard terns of US$12.0 million equivalent to
the Government of Chad.






CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
THE RURAL SECTOR
Area, Population and Social Sérvices by Ecological Zone
Zone (a)         Approximate      Main                                       1975 Population (b)    Primary(c) Pop. per
Rainfall        Outputs                Area             Total           Rural      School(%)  Medical
(mm/year)                       '000 kl      %      '000       %    '000   Nd/Ku? Enrollmnt  Staff(d)
Sahara           less than 200    Livestock         600        47       89       2.2     82     0.1      8.o     3300
Oases products
Sahel and        200-600           Livestock         349       27     1219      30.3  1155       3.3     5.1     7600
sub-Sahara                         Subsistence
Cereals
Transitional     600-1000          Food crops        205       16      825      20.5    578      2.8    21.4     3100
Livestock
Cotton Zone      more than 1000   Food crops         130       10     1886      46.9   1667    12.8    39.0      6200
Cotton
TOTAL                                        1,284       100   4,019     100    3,478      2.7    23.9    4,300
(a) Since all data are collected by administrative district, the ecological zones have been defined with respect to
the prefectures, as follows: Sahara Zone: B.E.T. prefecture; Sahel Zone: Batha, Biltine, Kanem, Lac and Ouaddai;
Transitional Zone: Chari-Baguirmi, Guera and Salamat; Cotton Zone: East Logone, West Logone, Mayo-Kebbi, Moyen Chari
and Tandjile. The boundaries of the prefectures correspond fairly closely to the rainfall zones except for northern
Chari-Baguirmi, southern Ouaddai and southern Salamat.
(b) In 1970, the total population was estimated at 3.64 million and the rural population at 3.23 million . The U.N.
Population Projections (revised, March 1975) put the total 1975 population at 4.02 million, with a rural growth rate
of 1.5%/year and an urban growth rate of 5.5%/year. Using these bases, the regional distribution of the 1975 population
was inferred from 1970 data. On the same bases the total 1985 population is projected to be almost 5 million with
a rural population of 4 million.
(c) 1974 Statistical Yearbook. Data relate to the 1974/5 school year for the 5-14 year age group. No breakdown between
urban and rural areas is available. The composite figure for the Transitional Zone is exaggerated by the influence of
the capital city,N'Mamena, in Chari-Baguirmi prefecture.
(d) 1970 data. Medical staff includes doctors, nurses and midwives. The remarks at (c) apply concerning the urban/rural 
breakdown and the influence of N'Djamena.
H X



ANNEX I
CHAD                                   Table 2
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
THE RURAL SECTOR
A. Food Balance Sheets: 1970
(. .. ,1969-71 Averages in thousands of tons .......)
Imports (+)Total   Losses
Domestic   or          Availa-              Total      Kg/Head/
Production  Exports(-) bility             Consumption   Year
(a)       7(Y)        TcT
Millet/Sorghum               631      ---       631        69         562        154
Paddy                         42      ---        42         3          39         il
Wheat                          7      +12        19        __          19          5
Maize                                 ---          9        1           8          2
Subtotal: cereals         689     +12        701        73         628       172
Root crops                   107      ---       107        10          97         27
Leguminous crops              95                  95       10          85         23
Oilseeds                     242      + 2       244       192          52         14
Fruit and vegetables          76      ---        76         8          68         19
Sugar                          9      + 8        17       ---          17          5
Beef (d)                      57      -35         22                   22          6
Sheep and goat meat (d)       15      - 5        10       ---          10          3
Milk                         230      ---       230        50         180         49
Fresh fish                   120      -63        57       ---          57         16
Source: FAO, Perspective Study on Agricultural Development of the Sahelian Zone
Countries, March 1975 (CILSS/RAF 706). Mission estimates for meat and milk.
(a) Seed, Feed, Waste and Non-food uses.
(b) In gross terms, i.e. before milling losses etc.
(c) With 1970 population at 3.64 million.
(d) Not including offals.
B. Foodgrain Demand and Supply, 1970-85
1970                                      1985
Volume       Relevant   Kg/head         Relevant    Volume
'000      poDulation   /year          opulation    '000
tons      (millions)                  (millions)    tons
Domestic Production (a)    689            3.23         213           4.01        854
Consumption          (a)    701           3.64         193           4.98        961
Deficit                       12                                                 107
of vhich: wheat             12                                                  36
other           ---                                                  71
(a) Base assumptions: constant production per head of the rural population
and constant consumption per head of the total population.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
THE RURAL SECTOR
Trends in Agricultural Production and Inputs
Crop Years :1967/8   1968/9   1969/70  1970/1   1971/2/'- 1972/3 -1973/4 - 1974/5   1975/6
Millet/Sorghum production   '000 tons    647       661      651      610       585      432      380      528
_eed cotton production         "          101      148      117       95       108      103     114       140/2   180/2
of which: Traditional        "           81      119       80       64        73       66      67        76/2.    74/2
"Productivity" 3/ "            20        29       37       31        35       37      47        64/2    106/-
.rea planted to cotton      '000 Ha      293      293       294      300      301       275     267      272       295/2
of which: Traditional        "          269      259      249      260       259      230     212       197      170/2
"Productivity" 3/ "            24        34       45       4o       42        45      55        75      125,/2
Inputs for "productivity
cotton"   3/
Fertilizer                tons                                             3,968    4,651   5,473    7,500    12,500e2
insecticide               '000 lit.                                          399      416     491       673     1,125./2
Animal Traction and Imple-
ments                                                                                              /2
Draught oxen              No.                                             65,256    6,9151 75,223   95,145   120,000
Ploughs                      "      11,454   13,673   19,682   24,130   28,944   31,331  34,548   39,450
Weeders                      "                                      580                               1,735
Carts                       "         5,123    6,514    7,o84    8,395    9,670    9,475   9,478   10,015
Source:      ONDR Annual Reports
/1   Drought Years                                                                                                D S
/2   Estimate
/3   "Productivity cotton":  100 kg/ha fertilizer (22 - 18- 14- 5(S)- 1.8 (B) in 1975/6)
and five applications of insecticide



C H A D
RURAL PROJECTS FUIND
TEE RURAL SECTOR
Livestock Numbers
('OOO Head)
Prefectures                       Cattle                        Sheep and         Horses             Camels          Donkeys        :     Pigs
: ____________________________________ _   :Goats
1972                1973                 1973             1973               1 973            1973               1973
CHARI BAGUIRMI                   700                  630                  800      :        13                9         :      60          :       1
KANEM                            850                  340                  850               18                70               50                   -
: LAC                               350                  283                  600      :        18               70                45                  _
BAT!A                            850          :       723          :       750      :        19       :       100        :      50                   -
: GUERA                             150                  143         :         60      :        10                -                10                  -
: OUADDAI                           570         :        228                  180      :       13        :       40                30                  _
: BILTINE                          7i5                   143         :        600      :       44        :      190                75                  _
: B5 F         ,5           15          :        75      :         -       :        70        :        5         :        -
:              S                  :                    :                 :                 :                 :                   :~~~~~~~1  7
:MAYO KEBBI                  t      250         :        230                  500      :       15                 -         :      10          :       2
LOGONE-TANDJILE  /                75                   75          :       300      :         4                 -        :        1         :        1
:MOYEN-CHARI                         75          :        75                  130      :         1                -         :        *         :       2
: SALAMAT                            90          :        86                   55                5       :       _-_        :7                 :        -
*               Totals            4,690                2,971         :     4,900       :       160       :      545                343         :       6
Livestock Departmeit
1/ Prefectures of Etst Logone, West Logone and Tandjile



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
1.        ONDR's subdivision, Perimetres Irrigues du Chari (PIC), is devel-
oping small-scale pumped irrigation schemes along the Chari between Guelendeng
and Mosgougou. Two schemes were completed in 1974; a further five were com-
pleted in time to provide supplemental irrigation during the rainy season of
1975; and one perimeter is still being implemented. FAC intends to finance
the completion of the eighth and to provide funds for operating all the
schemes through 1976.
2.        Farmer participation in the existing schemes has been most encour-
aging. On the first two perimeters installed, all labor for earthworks and
construction was provided by the neighboring village communities who were
subsequently rewarded with WFP rations. Earthworks and buildings for the
five perimeters constructed in 1975 were also undertaken voluntarily by the
villagers but with no payment or reward. All perimeters have provided their
own pump operators who are working with no cash reward. Animal traction in
the irrigation area has increased from zero to 40 pairs of oxen, 32 ploughs,
12 cultivators and 12 carts. Farmers made these acquisitions with no out-
side financial assistance.
3.        The climate in the area varies from semi-arid in the vicinity of
N'Djamena to relatively humid southwards towards Sarh.  Mean rainfall varies
from 630 mm over four months (June-September) in the north (N'Djamena) to
1,100 mm over six months (May-October) in the south (Sarh). From the end
of October to April there is virtually no rainfall. There are no important
temperature variations over the subproject area. There are two annual hot
periods, the more extreme peak (approx. mean 400C) occuring just before the
onset of the rains and the second just after. Minimum temperatures (approx.
mean 14.5°C) occur during January.
4.        The hydrology of the Chari has been studied in detail by ORSTOM. 1/
Floods on the Chari occur in September or October. There is little bank over-
spill, the levees remaining above high flood level, and the major losses arise
from flow into affluent3streams which have their own zones of inundation.  Th
median flood is 1,030 m /sec at Sarh (c2tchment area 193,000 km ) ind 3,690 m /sec
at N'Djamena (catchment area 6003000 km ). The median low is 45 m /sec at Sarh
occurring in mid-March and 126 m /sec at N'Djamena at the end of April. There
is an increase in flow downstream at a time when there is virtually no tributary
flow, a phenomenon that results from the river channel ac5ing as groundwater
drain. The 10 day average low flow 3at N'Djamena is 134 m /sec and the lowest
flow recorded at Guelendeng is 75 m /sec, peak water requirements of the small-
I/   Le bassin du Fleuve Chari - Orstom 1971.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
scale irrigation subproject would be only about 1% of the latter. No problem
of water quality is foreseen. Although the catchment area of the Chari River
lies in the Central African Republic, the subproject would not be harmful to
that country's interests. No problems of water rights within Chad are antici-
pated, in view of the slow foreseeable pace of irrigation development.
5.        Soils along the river banks are sands and sandy loams of low fer-
tility, exposed to regular flooding. The most permeable soils are unsuitable
for irrigation because of excessive water losses. These would be avoided by
selecting perimeter sites with heavier soils based on a reconnaissance soil
survey (para. 20).
6.        Access to the subproject area is provided by the all weather main
road N'Djamena-Guelendeng-Sarh on the left bank of the Chari.  The right bank
of the Chari is reached through Massenya to Bousso by a secondary road, dry
season only, while upstream of Bousso and downstream of Mousgougou only tracks
exist.
7.        Very little irrigation is carried out at present on the Chari.
In addition to the ONDR schemes described in para 1 there are two schemes
located on the left bank levee. The Lake Chad Basin Commission has, over
the past three years established a pumped development at Koundoul with 170
ha irrigated and a further 500 ha under rainfed cultivation. On this scheme
the main canal is lined and distributaries are unlined. Cotontchad has es-
tablished a 40 ha experimental plot under sprinkler irrigation at Darda,
downstream of Guelendeng.
The Subproject
8.        The objective of the subproject would be to develop a further 42
small perimeters of about 23 ha each or about 970 ha in total for pumped ir-
rigation. Each site would be associated with an existing village community.
Groups formed from more than one village give rise to organizational diffi-
culties at community level. About 0.25 ha would be allocated to each of
the about 90 participating families.
9.        To facilitate dry-season irrigation, pump sites would be chosen
where the banks are steep and there is a permanent low flow channel. The
ideal sites should have a slight, even slope away from the bank and should
command a block of suitable soils. There should be sufficient suitable
sites within a 10-15 km range to enable them to be grouped administratively
under service centers. Each center would service about 10 sites. After
preliminary reconnaissance, 36 such sites have been located between Bousso
and N'Djamena, and a further 22 sites have been identified on the same
reach requiring further topographical survey before final selection. At
least 50 suitable sites exist on this reach of the Chari.
10.       The cropping system adopted would consist of 50% cotton followed
by dry-season fallow and 50% sorghum followed by wheat and, possibly, leg-
tumes (mainly niebe) and vegetables (onions, tomatoes, etc.) for improved



ANNEX 2
Page 3
subsistence diets and for nearby local markets. The cropping pattern to be
practiced would be modified as experience accumulates. Although field trials
of dry season crops were not complete at the time of appraisal, it is known
that wheat and niebe can be grown with satisfactory results in the northern
zone of the subproject. It is still uncertain what can be grown under irri-
gated dry-season cropping in the high rainfall region south of Bousso, and
thus it is not recommended to develop sites along this reach at present.
11.       The technical package to be introduced into the perimeters would,
in addition to the irrigation system, include the introduction of ox drawn
cultivation (5 pairs/23 ha perimeter) and insecticide sprayers (1 per 5
farmers) and the supply of seeds, fertilizers and insecticides. Cotton
production would require about 150 kg/ha of a suitable compound NPKSB
fertilizer and about 15 1/ha of a cotton insecticide; wheat would require
about 150 kg/ha of NPKSB and sorghum about 100 kg/ha. For practical reasons
it may be advisable to use one standard compound fertilizer only, although it
may not be ideally suited for each individual crop.  With farmers inexperienced
in this new technology, full yields would not be obtained until the third year
of operation of each perimeter (para 29).
12.       Investment for each perimeter (Table 3) would consist of:
(i)  irrigation distribution systens;
(ii) drainage networks;
(iii)  pump group installations;
(iv) offices and housing;
(v) access road improvement;
(vi) provision of equipment;
(vii)  on-farm investments; and
(viii)  working capital.
13.       The irrigation distribution system, per perimeter, would include
about 2,300 m of lined canals with 45 1/sec capacity. The head canal and
the distributaries would be excavated and lined with 0.6 mm gauge aluminum
sheeting to minimize transmission losses (losses attained 50% in unlined
canals on the first perimeters installed). Aluminum lining is supplied in
rolls of over 100 m length and was satisfactory in an experimental plot, in
particular with regard to trampling by cattle hooves. The proposed use of
aluminum canal linings would be subject to confirmation based on a review to
be carried out by PIC early in Year 1. Structures, constructed in plastered
brickwork, would consist of a stilling basin with a measuring outlet (Parshall
flume or other) and gated turnouts from the head canal into the distributa-
ries. Field ditches would be supplied from the distributaries by batteries of
plastic siphons discharging a 22.5 1/sec leading system (the pump discharge
divided between two field ditches).
14.       Drainage would be by field drains and collectors designed to
evacuate 6 1/sec/ha (75 mm rainfall in 36 hours) discharging into natural
watercourses.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.       Pump groups would consist of a direct coupled pump and motor,
skid mounted, 45 1/sec capacity at 2,000 rpm. Total head would be be-
tween 6 m and 12 m at low flow and between 2 m and 8 m at the high water
state depending on the site. The pump would be selected to give optimum
efficiency at low flow stages. Three reinforced concrete pump bases
would be provided at different levels at each site. Each perimeter
would be equipped with a Tirfor winch to assist in moving the group
which weighs approximately 250 kg. The suction main, equipped with
foot valve and strainer, would be in flexible armoured rubber and the
delivery main in quick-coupled aluminum pipes. Peak irrigation (Table 1)
would require 10 hours pumping per day for the 11.5 ha under cultivation
in the dry season, at a peak water duty of 1.96 1/sec/ha. Pumping costs
are detailed in Table 2.
16.       Bush clearing and stumping, land preparation and levelling, earth-
works for irrigation canals, drains and pump sites, access track improvement
and buildings would be carried out communally by the farmers settling the
area.  Farmers' labor for construction would amount to some 6,700 mandays
per 23 ha perimeter. Pump bases, control structures and canal lining
would be constructed by teams of masons employed by PIC and directed by
Genie Rural (GR) staff. Pump groups would only be installed after all
works requiring farmer participation had been completed.
17.       The villagers would construct the buildings for each perimeter
consisting of a 30 m store, for which the project would provide building
materials (roofing sheets, timber, metal door and windows), and a one-room
house for the extension agent. A bicycle would be provided for each exten-
sion agent and the existing access tracks would be improved. The subproject
would provide fill to be handspread in low spots to allow all-weather access.
18.       Five service centers would be installed for the eight existing and
42 new perimeters.  A service center (Table 7) would consist of 2a compound,
surrounded by a security fence, including staff housing, a 72 m workshop/
store and a furnished 60 m office/meeting room which would also provide facil-
ities for farmner training to be planned by the Ministry of Agriculture Train-
ing Unit. The center would be provided with storage for fuel and lubricants,
tools for simple pump maintenance, and equipment for demonstrating animal
traction techniques. Vehicles would consist of one 3/4 ton pick up and
two mobylettes per center.
19.       Technical assistance and local personnel necessary for project
management during development would be financed by the subproject (Table 8).
20.       The subproject is scheduled for implementation over a three-year
period (Table 9). In PYI, five perimeters are planned for implementation.
This would require preproject activities in 1976 consisting of a reconnais-
sance soil survey of a maximum of 75,000 ha (terms of reference at Appendix
1). The topographic survey and subsequent setting out of works would require



ANNEX 2
Page 5
a survey team in the field for about five months. In the second year, two
survey teams would be needed for a full season and in the final year four
teams would be required.  These teams could be trained in the field.
Organization and Management
21.       ONDR, with the legal status of an "Office", has set up its PIC sub-
division for implementation and management of the small scale irrigation proj-
ects. PIC is responsible for the planning, construction and operation of
these schemes.
22.       PIC would provide the subproject's management.  It would receive
technical assistance comprising an agronomist/project manager, an irrigation
agronomist and an input supply/extension organizer as well as extension and
maintenance personnel (Table 8). It would assure the supply of inputs (fer-
tilizer, pesticides, fuel, etc.) and would carry out pump maintenance. Irri-
gation layout and development would be carried out with the cooperation of GR,
which would be strengthened with already planned technical assistance. For
this purpose, GR would have to second the necessary personnel to work under
the direct control of PIC. ONDR would reimburse GR's budget to cover these
costs (Table 9). Service centers (Table 7) would be responsible for the
distribution of ONDR inputs and for the collection of farmer payments. They
would also be the pool for demonstration equipment for animal traction, which
would be allocated to perimeters, be the center for farmer training and crop
marketing, and provide pump maintenance facilities.  Accounts would be
kept for perimeters at each service center. Payment for fuel and lubri-
cants after the first year of operation and costs of repairs and provi-
sion for pump replacement (para. 25 and Table 2) would be collected
pro-rata from each farmer in the village group at the time of cotton
marketing.
23.       An annual program with detailed estimates of operating and con-
struction costs would be submitted by ONDR to the RPF management unit for
approval.
24.       A prerequisite for the inclusion of any scheme in this programn
would be the agreement of village groups to participate in the planned de-
velopment. This would have to be obtained by PIC extension staff. The
village group would be required to provide labor for construction (para. 16)
and maintenance and the personnel for pump operation.
25.       Operation and maintenance at the level of each scheme would be
the responsibility of the village group who would provide the necessary
labor for maintaining the irrigation distribution systems and drainage
networks under the direction and guidance of the extension staff. Fuel
and lubricants would be supplied by ONDR for pump operation during the
first year. In subsequent years farmer groups would have to pay for fuel,
lubricants and repairs (para. 22). Routine pump maintenance would be car-
ried out during periodic visits by ONDR mechanics or at the Center's work-
shop. Major repairs would be carried out in ONDR workshops at N'Djamena.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
10% standby units would be stocked so that immmediate replacement would
be possible in the event of breakdown, with minimum interruption to irri-
gation.
Subproject Cost
26.       Estimated project costs at mid-1976 net-of-tax prices are summar-
ized below and detailed in Table 9. Labor for earthworks, building construc-
tion and roads, to be provided voluntarily by beneficiary farmers, is not
included in subproject financial costs, although it would be worth CFAF 67
million, even with no physical contingency, at the Government minimum wage
rate of CFAF 240 per eight-hour day.
Cost                 %
Local   Foreign    Total        FE      Labor
Item                     ------CFAF Million ------             '000 Mandays
42 Perimeters                   83.35  182.20      265.55      69      280.31
5 Service Centers               22.64   30.81       53.45      58        -
Administration                 108.42  131.10      239.52      55        -
Subtotal                      214.41  344.11       558.52      62      280.31
Physical Contingencies          30.03   39.80       69.83      57       42.05
Total Investment Cost          244.44  383.91      628.35      61      322.36
27.       Investment costs, including physical contingencies, can be alloc-
ated as follows:
Item                                         Cost              _%
CFAF Million
Civil Works                                        198.71            31
Equipment and Vehicles                              93.03            15
Technical Assistance                               152.18            24
Government Salaries                                 80.43            13
On-farm Investments                                 31.20             5
Working Capital                                     48.20             8
Vehicle Operating Costs during Development          24.60             4
628.35           100



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Investment costs would be phased over three years:
CFAF Million
Year 1               120.16
Year 2               210.43
Year 3               297.76
Total                628.35
28.       Operating costs of the subproject consist of those at the perimeter
level (farm inputs, water charges and maintenance of irrigation works) and
operating costs for extension staff and service centers. At full development,
annual operating costs would reach about CFAF 111 million, of which about
CFAF 70 million (or 63%) would be paid by farmers, if all subsidies on farm
inputs (fertilizer, insecticide) were abolished. With existing input subsi-
dies, farmers would pay about CFAF 61 million or 55% of total incremental
operating costs for the scheme. Farmers would finance on-farm inputs and
equipment themselves. Water charges would include a provision for replac-
ing the pump after 10,000 hours (six years) of operation. Farmers would
also pay for the maintenance of irrigation works by provision of labor.
The remaining operating costs (CFAF 41 million without and CFAF 50 million
with input subsidy) would be borne by Government.
Justification
29.       Important economic benefits would be generated by the subproject,
including increased exports of cotton, import substitution of wheat, tax
revenue for Government, and increased family incomes. At full development,
the expected incremental annual production would be about 960 t seed cot-
ton, 725 t sorghum, and 960 t wheat. Yields are expected to develop as
shown below, with total incremental annual production obtained in Year 5:
Yields                            Total Incremental
Total           Production
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3       Area            in Year 5
--------(kg/ha)---------       (ha)              (tons)
Seed cotton           1,400    1,700    2,000        483                  966
Sorghum               1,000    1,250    1,500        483                  725
Wheat                   -       1,600    2,000        483                 966
Cotton yield estimates are conservative in the light of average yields of 1,800
kg/ha in 1974/75 in one perimeter and 1,700 kg/ha in 1975/76 in seven perimeters,
in each case wlthout pre-irrigation due to delays in construction of irrigation
works.
30.       The subproject would assist about 3,900 smallholder families, and
aim at modernizing their farming practices, improving nutritional standards



ANNEX 2
Page 8
and increasing incomes. Excluding input subsidies, a typical farming family
cultivating 2 ha dry land and 0.25 ha irrigated land would have increased
its income, including subsistence, from about CFAF 25,000 (US$112) by 40%
to about CFAF 36,000 (US$159), and increase its cash income from CFAF 7,300
(US$33) to CFAF 15,900 (US$71). The net return per manday worked in the
irrigation perimeters (CFAF 183) would be slightly above that of a manday in
dry land farming (CFAF 178) and thus assure full utilization of the irrigated
area by farmers.
31.       Government would collect CFAF 18.25 per kg cotton lint in tax,
equivalent to CFAF 7 million (US$29,000) annually at full development.
Cotontchad, a parastatal company, would increase its operating income by
about CFAF 39,000 (US$173) per ton of seed cotton, totalling about CFAF 38
million (US$167,000). According to the ten-year convention (1971) between
the Government and Cotontchad, 80% of Cotontchad's profits are transferred
to the Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton (CSPC), a public autonomous
agency whose purpose is to guarantee the price paid to farmers for their
crop in the face of fluctuating world prices. Surpluses would eventually
accrue to cotton farmers either through higher guaranteed cotton prices or
as contributions to the cotton development program. Moreover, part of the
remaining 20% of Cotontchad's profits will be used for reinvestment.
32.       The internal economic return over 20 years is estimated at 11%
at the shadow exchange rate of US$ = CFAF 280. The subproject is sensitive
to changes in costs and benefits, as summarized below:
Benefits %              90        100        100
Costs %                100        100        110
Internal
Economic Return %        7         il          8
33.       On initial inspection, although the rate of return on the base
estimate is satisfactory, the sensitivity is disturbing. It has to be born
in mind however that the yield assumptions (para 29) are conservative in
view of what has already been achieved, and any difference in practice is
more likely to be favorable than unfavorable. In addition, the distinct
possibility of growing legumes and vegetables in addition to cereals and
cotton has not been taken into account. The three full-time expatriate
staff costed to this subproject (22% of subproject base costs) will exercise
a tight control over initial operations and will set up effective operating
procedures. Local staff who will later take over the recurrent management
of established perimeters and be available to replicate the installation
of new perimeters, will have had more than three years experience in a
well-run organization. The rate of return to future investments of this
kind in the absence of expatriate staff would be about 15% instead of about
11%; the latter return does not capture the training effect of the high-
cost expatriate staff. One of the three expatriates is presently on the
job and keen to stay on it.  He was substantially responsible for the
installation of five perimeters in 1975 and has the disposition to involve



ANNEX 2
Page 9
senior local staff in basic management functions (Annex 9). One of the
major risks of the RPF indicated at para 6.04 is not therefore pertinent
to the small-scale irrigation subproject. But, above all, the first seven
perimeters were set up with, for Chad, an unprecedented degree of partici-
pation on the part of the beneficiary communities, and further village
groups have offered to provide a similar contribution of voluntary labor
on new perimeters. This suggests that small irrigation perimeters corres-
pond to the perceived needs of farmers and that they will make special
efforts to ensure that the perimeters are farmed successfully.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATlON
Pumping Reguirements for a 23ha Perimeter
J           J          A          S          0          N           D          J           F          M          Annual
1/.                                                                           _   ._
Crop Water requirements
(mm/month)
ETP (Penman)                              140)        125        105         110        140        135        130        130          150        185
Cotton                                    154         140        174         189         87        -          -          -            -          -            744
Sorghum                                   177         196        190        108         -                     -          -            -          -            671
Wheat                                                 -          -           -          -          -          175        200          232        180           787
Niebe                                                 -           -                                 95        181        233          210        -             719
2/
Effective rainfall                         80         202        130          70                              -          -            -                       482
Irrigation Requirements
(m3/month)
Field water requirements
11.5 ha cotton                      8,500          -        5,000    13,700    10,000                      -          -                 -           -
11.5 ha sorghum                    11,200          -        6,900    .4,400         -                      -          -           -          -
5.75 ha wheat                                     -          -          -          -          -       10,100    11,500        13,300    10,400
5.75 ha niebe                        -            -          -          -          -        5.500    10,400    13.400         12,100        -             -
TOTAL                           19.700         -       11,900    18,100    10.000         5,500    20.500    24.900        25.400    10,400        146,4U0
3/
Pumping Requirements                  37,900          -       22.900    34.800    19.200    10,600    39,400    47.900            48.900    20.000        281,600
Pumping hours/month                       234         -          141        215         119         53        243        296         302         123        1,738
Pumping hours/day                           8         -            5           7          4          2          8         10           10          4          -
1/ Includes 50 mm pre-irrigation and 3 mm/day deep percolation.
2/ 80% of rainfall equalled or exceeded 4 years out of 5.
3/ Assumes 5% transmission losses in distribution system and 55% field irrigation efficiency.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Average Pumping Cost
3
Discharge 45 1/sec = 162 m /hr
Average total head 8m
Water H.P. = 45 x 8 = 4.7
76-
Pumping efficiency = 65% i.e. BHP = 7.3 H.P.
Fuel consumption at 0.28 1/BHP hr
= 7.3 x 0.28 = 2.044 l/hr
Cost per 23 ha perimeter
Operating hours:   1738/Year 1/
Operating Costs                                  CFAF/Year             CFAF/hr
1.    Fixed Costs
Repairs and insurance                      97,600                   56
(10% on capital cost)
Replacement (6 years life)                162,700                   94
Total Fixed Costs                      260,300                 150
2.    Variable Costs
Fuel(CFAF 77.5/1)                         275,317                  158
Lubricants (20% of fuel costs)             55.063                   32
Total Variable Costs                  330.380                 190
TOTAL COST                           590.680                  340
Operating Cost per m 3 at pump:CFAF 2.1. Annual Charge per participating
family (92): CFAF 6,420
l/ Table 1.
2/  Pump operators work without cash payments but in return for assistance with
the field work in their irrigated plots from the other irrigators.



ANNEX 2
CHAD                                                 Table 3
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Quantities and Costs for 23 ha Irrigation Perimeter
Voluntary
Quantity         Unit      Rate      Cost     % FE        Labor  2/
per ha    Total
1.   Irrigation and drainage  1/                                                     CFA        CFAF               maa-days
Fqrthworks  3/                                                                          million
Compacted fill                                 125      2,875      m3         _         _         _         2,875
Excavation                                      50       1,150      "          -         -        _         1,150
Excavation for drains                           63       1,449      "          -        _         _         1,449
Cost of earthworks                                                        _                   5474
Canal lining 4/                                                                                                _
Supply aluminium sheet                         100      2,300      m2         800    ]-84o       85          -    _
Lay and fix                                    100      2,300      "          130    0.299        -          -
Cost of canal liningi                                                   2.139      73      
Structures
Pump bases                                      -       2,4        m3      82,000    0.197       60          -
Stilling basin - plastered brickwork                   18,0        m2       5,000    0.090       20          -
concrete slab                -        2,0        m3     70,000    0.140       60          -
Distribut ary canal turnouts                    -        3         No      57,500    0.172       45          _
Other structures (siphons, pipe culverts    -           -       L. sum   200,000    0.200        45          -
culverts, etc.)                                                                            -
Cost of structures               -        -                             0.799     49           -
2.   Offices and housing       Subtotal - Irrigation and drainage                             2.938      66             
Building materials                              -        -      L. sum   250,000    0.250       65
Labor                                                    850   mandays       -           _       -            850
Subtotal - Offices and buildings                               0.250      85          850
3.   Access road improvement   1/
Transport and dumping fTli                     -         400       m3         2;O    0.100      60          -
Labor for spreading and compacting              -        350    man days       -        -        -            350
Subtotal - Access road improvement                             0.100      60           350
I. EquiP»ent
Pump mator and rising main                     -         1         No    976,000    0.976       85          -
Small tools and equipment  5/                  -         -      L. sum   400,000    0.400       85          -
Bicycle for extension agent                    -         1         No     15,000    0.015       85
Subtotal - Equipment                                           1.391     5T        -__
5.   On-farm investment                                                                              . -
Work oxen                                         0.2    5       pairs    60,DOO     0.300      -
Implements 6/                                  -         5        sets    4o,ooo    0.200       60          -
Sprayers   7/                                           18        No.      8,100    0.146       85          _
Subtotal _ On-farm f nveetment                                 0      646             - 
6    Working Capital'
Water Charges, Year 1  8/                             1,738        hrs        246    O 428      55          _
Input Suapply Credit    9/                                                           6_à70      82
Subtotal - Working Capital                                    0.908      -7r         -
Total - vithout contingencies                                 6.323                 6,674
Physical contingencies 10/                                    0.740                 1 001
TOTAL - One irrigation perimeter                                                    7,675
1/ Items 1, 2 and 3 are Civil Works.
2/  Supplied by final beneficiaries and worth CFAF 1.6  million/perimeter, even vith no physical contingenoy.
3/ Earthwork quantities based on 100 m canal/ha, 150 m field ditches/ha
150 m field drains/ha, 45 m collectors/ha, 40 m main drains/ha.
4/  100 m canal lining/ha, surface area 1 m /m.
5/ 20 picks, 20 shovels, 5 wheelbarrows, 1 Tirfor winch, tools for pump group, platform scale, 12 No. 4" dia x
10 m plastic siphons
6/  1 cart CFAF 30,000, 1 plough CFAF 8,500, taokle CFAF 1,500 = CFAF 40,000 per pair.
7/   Shared between five farmers
8/   Financing first full year of operatingcosts (Table 2) excluding provision for réplacement.
9/   Purchase of incremental wheat seed (920 kg = CFAF 55,200);  fertilizer (4.6 t = CFAF 253,000):
insecticide(175 I = CFAF 262,000)
10/   15% cf all costs except purchase of vehicles and equipment



ANIiEX 2
Table 4
CHAD
RURAL-PROJECTS FUND
SMALIT SCALE IRRIGATION
Crop Areas. Yields      Grosg Tncoma ner 4hf Perimeter
Item                       Year 1            Year 2           Year 3-10
________________--- ha  --~----------------
1/
A.   Cultivated Area
Cotton                           11.5              11.5               11.5
Sorghum                          11.5              11.5               11.5
Wheat                                               11.5              11.5
B.   Yields per ha                    -------------------- ka _
Cotton                        1,4oo             1,700             2,000
Sorghum                       1,000             1,250             1,500
Wheat                            -              1,600             2.000
C.   Total  Outpout                         ---_--- ke  ---________
Cotton                       16,100            19,550            23,000
Sorghum                      11,500            14,375            17,250
Wheat                           -             18,400             23,000
2/
D.   Value of Production              ----------------  CFAF'000 -------------------
Cotton                          692               841               989
Sorghum                         345               431               518
Wheat                           -                  736               920
TOTAL                     1,037             2,008             2,427
1/   Cotton and sorghum during rainy seasorx wheat and fallow during dry season.
Perimeter installation during Year 1 dry season.
2/   Prices in CFAF per kg:  cotton 43; sorghum 30;wheat 4G.



ANNEX 2
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Operating Costs for 23 ha Perimeter
Year I                    Year 2-10              FE
Item                    Unit        Unit      Quantity        Value       Quantity       Value         %
Cost
Seed/                                            CFAF                     CFAF                        CFAF
Cotton                                kg          -       288             -           288            -             -
Sorgbum                               kg         30       230            6,900        230             6,900        _
Wheat                                 kg          60       -              -           920            55,200
Subtotal Seed                                                      6,900                       62-100
Fertilizer  ?                            kg          55    2,875          158,125      4,600           253,000       85
Insecticide Cotton -                      1       1,500      172.5        258,750        172.5         258,750       85
Hired Labor                         mandays         240      368           88,320        368            88,320        -
Ox-dravn Cultivation 4-
- Risks  P                          pair      3,000         5           15,000          5            15,000        -
- Implements                        set       8,000         5             -             5            40,000       60
Subtotal Oxen                                                     15,000                       55,000       44
Sprayers                               set        1,620                      -            18  *         29,160       85
Water Charge                           hour         340        _              -        1,738           590,680       55
Civil Works Maintenance                                        -             -            -            132.000       71
TOTAL wlthout contin-
gencies                                                       527,095                    1,469,010       62
Physical Contingencies  i                                         63,566                      198,854       53
TOTAL OPERATING C0STS                                            590 661                    1,667,864       61
- with subsidy for
Productivity Cotton                                           311.786                    1.388.989
/ Seed rate/ha: cotton 25 kg; sorghum 20 kg, wheat 80kg.
/ Application rate/ha: cotton + wheat 150 kg, sorghum 100 kg of NPKSB compound fertilizer.
F Five treatments of peprothion (15 1/ha).
4/ Assuming 1 incremental pair of oxen plus implements for 5 ha, to be owned by individuals.
5  5% death risk per pair worth CFAF 60,000 = CFAF 3,000, assuming same price at purchase and at culling.
î  20% replacement per ox-drawn equipment worth CFAF 40,000 per pair following Year 1.
/ 20% for repair and replacement of sprayers costing CFAF 8,100 following Year 1.
8/ Cost during first year (709 bours at CFAF 241,000) included under investment cost.
1/ 5% of canal lining and structures.
/î15% of all cost excluding ox-drawn cultivation and hired labor.
IL/Input package of fertilizer and insecticide sold for CFAF 6,500/ha.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Budget for a Farming Family
(at full development and excluding subsidy)
1/
Without Project                     Incremental with Project
Item                  Area      Yield      Value                 Area      Yield      Value
ha       kg/ha      CFAF                  ha        kg/ha      CFAF
2/
A.   Income
Cotton                     0.1          600       2,580               0.125      2,000      10,750
Sorghum                    1.5          500      22,500               0.125      1,500       5,625
Wheat                         -         -           -                 0.125      2,000      10,000
Legumes                    0.4          450      .5.iO                    -         -          -
Total Income                                 30j.480                                    231M.
B.   Operating Costs
3/
Seeds                                             2,100                                        675
Fertilizer                                          550  4/                                  2,750
Insecticide Cotton                                2,250  5/                                  2,813
Hired Labor                                         -                                          960
Hired Draught Oxen                                  -598
Sprayers                                            250                                        317
Water Charge                                        -                                        6,420
Civil Works Maintenance                             -                                        1.435
5.150
Total Operating Costs                           _                                        15 968
C.   Operating Surplus                                   25,330                                     10,407
Subsistence 6/                                   18,000                                      1,800
Cash Income                                       7,33(z
D.   Operating Surplus/Manday                                178
Cash Income/Manday  7/                                   52                                       183
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _z
1/   Incremental income and costs of 0.25 ha of irrigation land, in addition to the 2 ha of rainfed
crons; 92 farming families would phare one 23 ha irrization nerimeter (Table 5)
2/ Unit prices for cotton, sorghum and whcat: Table 4, footnote 2; for legumes CFAF 30/kg.
J    Cotton seed   free; sorghum  30 kg @ CFAF 30 = CFAF 900 ;legumes 40 kg @ CFAF 30 = CFAF i,200
4/   Assuming 100 kg fertilizer @ CFAF 55 for cetton.
/   1.5 lpoprothion per 0.1 ha of cotton at CFAF 1,500/1.
4 adult equivalents per family consuming 150 kg grain/head = 600 kg; due to higher living
standard with project 60 kg more.
7/   142 mandays on 2 ha rainfed cropland; 57 incremental mandays on 0.25 ha irrigation land.



ANIU 2
Table 7
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Investment Costs for OneService Center
Item                              Quantity        Unit        Rate        Cost             FE
Buildings                                                                                CFAF     CFAF '000      t
Housing Materials                                        -                          , Sum     1,750          57
Housing Labor  1/                                      2,000         man-           240         480         _
days
Workshop/store 6m x 12m                                   72         m                35,000  2,520          45
Office/meeting room 6m x 10m                              60         m2              35,000  2,100           45
Security Fence 35m x 20m compound                        110         m2                  800     88          70
Subtotal                                                                                 6,938          45
Equipment and Tools
Standby pump set                                            1        No             976,000     976          85
Spares  2/                                                -              -       L.Sum        1,074          85
Workshop equipment and tools  3/                         -               -       L.Sum          500          85
Equipment for office, store and meeting
room  4/                                               -             -        L.Sum          200         40
Demonstration equipment for animal
traction  5/                                             5        sets           200,000  1.000          85
Subtotal                                                                                 3,750          81
Total without contingencies                                                              10,688          58
6/
Physical Contingencies                                                         1,1041          45
TOTAL - One Service Center                                                              11.729          51
1/  Building to be constructed by locally available labor,purchase of building materials by contract.
2/ 10% of cost of eleven pumpsets (10 + 1 standby) serviced by a center.
3/ 'Workbench with vice, drill press, sheerlegs and chain block, tools.
4/ Desks, tables, chairs, blackboard, platform, scale in the store etc.
1 set comprising plough, harrow, yoke and harness,cart.
6/  15% of buildings.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Staff Requirements and Costs
Function                        No. per           Monthly              Annual             Year I                Year 2                Year 3                Year 4                 Year 5
Unit            Salary              Salary
CFAF
Thousand             ----------- --                 -  (----------(an yeare)CFAF million -------------------------------------- -------_
Technical Assistance
Project Manager                             1                _                  15.75            (1) 15.75             (1) 15.75             (1) 15.75                 -
Irrigation Agronomist                       1                _                  14.18            (1) 14.18             (1) 14.18             (1) 14.18                 -
Extension organizer                         1                _                  14.18            (1) 14.18             (1) 14.18             (1) 14.18                -
Total Annual Cost -
Technical Assistance                                                                           44.11                 44.11                 44.11                -             -
ONDR Staff (PIC)
Service Centers
Chef de Centre                              1                70                  0.84             (1)  0.84             (3)  2.52             (5)  4.20             (5)  4.20             (5)  4.20
Assistant                                    1                55                 0.66             (1)  0.66             (3)  1.98             (5)  3.30             (5)  3.30             (5)  3.30
Mechanic                                     1                40                 0.48             (1)  0.48             (3)  1.44             (5)  2.40             (5)  2.40             (5)  2.40
Storeman/clerk                              1                35                  0.42            (1)  0.42             (3)  1.76             (5)  2.10              (5)  2.10             (5)  2.10
Driver                                      1 1/              25                 0.30             (4)  1.20             (6)  1.80             (8)  2.40             (5)  1.50             (5)  1.50
2/
Perimeters
Extension agents                            1                45                  0.54             (5)  2.70           (19) 10.26             (40) 21.60            (32) 17.28            (21) il. 34
Total Annual Cost -
ONDR Staff                                                                                    6.30                 19.26                 36.00                 30.78                 24.84
G-R Staff                                                                           ------------------------------------------------- (man months) CFAF million -------------------------------------
3/
Survey team
Surveyor                                    1                 40                   -              (5)  0.20            (14)  0.56            (23)  0.92                -                      -
Assistant Surveyors                         2                 22                   -             (10)  0.22            (28)  0.62            (46)  1.01                 -                     -
Chainmen                                    4                 12                   -             (20)  0.24            (56)  0.67            (92)  1.01                -                      -
Driver                                      1                 25                   -              (5)  0.12            (14)  0.35            (23)  0.58                                       -
Design  and Supervision 4/
Designer/draughtsman                        1                40                   -               (2)  0.08             (3)  0.12             (5)  0.20                -                     -
Fielcf Supervisor                            l                40                   -            (2.5)  0.10         ' (6.5)  0.26            (11)  0.44                 -                     -
Driver                                      1                 25                   _            (2.5) 0.06            (6.5)  0.16            (11)  0.28                -
Total Annual Cost
G-R Staff                                                                                       1.20                 2.74                   4.44
1/  One driver per center plus three drivers for vehicles for Technical Assistance.
2/  One extension agent per perimeter for the first two years.  Each extension agent coatrolling two perimeters thereafter.
3/  SurveY teams  would complete survey and setting out ons perimeter per month, i.e., one tesam required Year 1, two teamrs Year 2,
three teams Year 3> for part of the year.
4/  A desigi engineer (?geni eur des Travaux Ruraux) will bo attached to G-R under French Technical Assistance.                                                                                                             X



CYA0
Rl)RAL PROJECTS F1113D
SMALL-SCALE rRRLGATION
Schedole cI Lle0ementctloc 0nd Investmeent Coite
It-e                                   yetr I                                            year 2  .e.r 3         TotaL                    FE                       retch                       Lc.al                   Lbre
005 t
ïcelementation Ochedole
Peritettr-                                             5                        14                       23                      42
Service Centers                                        1                         2                        2                       5
---^--------------------  CFAF        --  ------------------------------                                            ------------       -i -------                       '       days
_cvefwt __os ts
Sec teteca 1/
Irrigetlon and droilcge                          14.69                     41.13                     67.57                  123.39                  66                      81.44                        44.95               229.91
Office and housing                                 1.25                      3.50                     5.95                   10.50                  85                       8.93                         1.57                 35.70
Acces.s Rod Improvement                            0.50                     1.40                      2.30                    4.20                  60                       2.52                         1.68                 14.70
Eq.ipt.3at                                         6.96                    19.47                     31.99                   58.42                   85                     49.66                         8.76                   -
Os-fats invertment                                 3.23                      9.04                    14.86                   2.13                    33                     10.3'                        16.82
Working Capitol                                    4-99                    13.97                     22.95                   41.91                  70                      20.3ù                        12.57
Subtotal - P-rieter-                           31 .62                   88.51                    145.42                                          69                      82.20                        83.35               29.3
Service Center-
5vildingre                                         6.94                    13.80                     13.88                   34.70                  45                      15.62                       19.08                    -
Equipmecnt                                         3.75                      7.50                     7.50           _          72                  81                      15.19           3,56
Svbtotal - service Centers                     10.69                    21.38                     21.38                   53,45                   8                      30.81                       22.64
Ad,1init5'etlOC                     3/
Stsff costa - TecheicaI aslistarce                44.11                    44.11                     44.11                  I32.33                  80                     105.86                       26.47
091DR  3/                           6.30                     19.26                    36.00                   61.56                  -                        -                          61.56                    -
G-R  37                             1.20                      2.74                     4.44                    8,3B                  -                        -                           8.38                    -
Vahiclea  4/                                       8.18                      3.84                     3.84                   15,86                  85                      13.48                        2.38
Vehicl  oper-atinB  .o..  5/               485_                             7.16                     9.38                   _21                    55                      11.76                        9.63                  - _
Subtotai _ Adeiclstretlee                      64.64                    77.11                     977                   239.52                   55                     131.10                      108.42
Total tithrut continge. ctes                    695 »                                            264.57                  5                       62                     344.11  .                   214.41                  28O.31
Physical contingencie.  6l                     13.21                    23.43A __                                                                                        39_ 0                       30.03 .42.0
TOTAL INV1ST0N740   COSTS                     120.16                   210.43                    297.76                  628.35                  61                     383.91                      244.44                 322.36
If Table 3.
il Table 7.
4/  3/4 Lon pIck-ope at CFAF 1.15 million:  3 for odeicîrolioe, 3 Eoc G-R aercey teans, I ecc  per ser-ic- ceer.  Mobylettes et CFAF 0.065 million; 2 each p-r
service center.
51  3/4 ton pick-upa, 20,000 km fYcar et CYAF 680,000 (font ald lobtivation  07AF 230,000, repaie C4A.  220,000, replacenect 5 yearr CFAF 230,000, mobyltttts 6,003 kntyeac at CFAF
45,000 (foel .nd lobrtcetioCFAF 11,000, repair CFAF 13,000; rep ..s.ee.t 3 y-rs - CFAF 21,000)
/  15% 0f all cOsta e.copt pareh.se of vehicloc ;n-I equlpment.
. .



ANNEX 2
Table 10
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
ARgregate Value of Production and Operating Costs
Year 1          Year 2         Year 3          Year 4           Year 5-20
1/
A.   Production                          --------------------------- CFAF million ----------------------------------
Cotton                          3.460           13.893          32.635          38.134          41.538
Sorghum                          1.725            6.986          16.560          19.751          21.735
Wheat                              -              3.680          14.904          34.408          38.640
Total Value of
Production                 5.15_           24.56.                          92.293         !UL913.
2/
B.   Inputs - Perimeters
Seeds                           0.029             0.137           1.291           2.550           2.550
Fertilizer                       0.791            3.479           8.444          10.626          10.626
Insecticide                     1.294            4,916          10.868           10.868          10.868
Hired Labor                     0.442             1.678           3.709           3.709           3.709
Ox-drawn Cultivation             0.075            0.485           1.390           2.310           2.310
Sprayers                           -              0.146          0.554            1.225           1.225
Water Charges                      -              2.953          11.223          24.809          24.809
Civil Works Maintenance            -              0.660           2.508           5.544           5.544
Physical Contingencies          0.318             1.884           5.240           8.352           8.352
Total Inputs-
Perimeters                 2.949           16.338          45.227          69.993          69.993
3/
C.   Operating Costs - ONDR
ONDR Staff Salaries  4/            -                -               -            30.780          24.840
Vehicle Operating Costs 5/         -                -               -             3.850           3.850
Road Maintenance 6/                -                -               -             0.420           0.420
Building Maintenance 7/            -                -               -             2.690           2.690
Replacement Equipment 8/
- Service Centers                  -                -               -             1.880           1.880
- Perimeters                       -                -               -             1.740           1.740
Physical Contingencies  9/         -                -               -             5.661           5.661
Total Operating Costs
ONDR                         -                 -               -           47.021          41.081
1/   See Table 4 and phasing in Table 9.
2/   See Table 5 and phasing in Table 9.
3/   Operating costs for service centers and extension agents in perimeters; first three years included in
investment.
4/   Table 8.
5/   3/4 ton pickup, 20,000 km/year at CFAF 680,000; 5 pick-ups at CFAF 3.4 million.
6/   10% replacement costs of transport only.
7/   5% of construction cost.
8/   10% of investment cost.
9/   15% of all cost except replacement of vehicles and equipient.
de*: 1. Cost Ree.vry IndeA: Prasent VaTle ( at 10%) of vater eharges ( Boa abow')
divided by present Valut of inveatment eoute iueludling phyaical centin<encies
(Table 91 tor yeara 1-3 and of operating coat ot 0NDR C C abQye1j Index  is
142J4/758.6 or 19%.
2. Rent Recovery Index: Present Value ( at 10%) of vater charges ( see above)
divided by present value of ( see above) A -B + vater charges; Index is 142.4/
369.1 or 39%.



ANNEX 2
Table 11
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Economic Price for Cotton Lint
(In 1976 constant terms)
Cotton Lint                             1976/77                1978/85
Reference Price  il                                           US$/lb
(CIF Europe)                                         0.65                   0.63
CFAF/ton
322,774               312,842
Less: Marketing Costs Europe
Selling Expenses                        1,641
CFDT Fee                                2,734
Subtotal                            4,375
Less:  FOB to CIF Europe                          19,145
Less: Ginnery to FOB
Truck Onoko-Ngaoundere                 13,687
Ngaoundere Transit                      1,808
Rail Ngaoundere-Douala                  7,594
Douala Transit                          3,535
Insurance                                 671
Subtotal                          27.295
Less: Ginnerl Processing
Expatriate Salaries                     5,196
Local Salaries                          5,165
Consumables                             4,092
Packing                                 2,728
Insurance                               3.137
Subtotal                          20.318
Less: Transport
Field to Ginnery (40 km)                2.000
Total Deduction                    73,133
Economic Farm Gate Price (without                        2/
shadow pricing)                               249.641 -239709
Economic Farm Gate Price (with shadow                    3/
priciflg  LUS$ 1 - CFAF 280)                312.051                299 636
1 /Bank  orecast prices of November 26, 1975n 1973 constant dollars adjusted
to 1976 terms.
2 /Equivalent to CFAF 92/kg seed cotton.
3 /Equivalent to CFAF 112/kg seed cotton.



ANNEX 2
Table 12
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Economic Price for Wheat
(In 1976 constant terms)
Wheat                     1976            1977           i978             1979            1980           1985
--------------------------- US$/ton -------------------------------________
Reference Price   1/                        170             166            164              162             164            169
(FOB Gulf Ports)
------------------------------- CFAF/ton  ----------------------------________
38,250         37,350          36,900          36,450          36,900          38,025
Plus: Transport Costs
FOB US Gulf
Apapa/Nigeria                                                       18,069
Apapa-Maiduguri                                                         17,922
Maiduguri - N'D)jamena                                                   8,226
Quantity Loss (5% of FOB Price)                                          2,210
Subtotal                                                     46i427
Price delivered
N'Djamena                            84,677          83,777          83,327          82.877          83,327         84,452
Less: Local Transport
Guelendeng - N'Djamena                                                   4,000
Quantity loss (1% of FOB Price)                                            442
Subtotal 4i442
Economic Farm Gate Price                 80,235        _79_335                           78,435         78 885          80 010
without shadow pricing                                     3           78 85 ..                           _
-        CO'O- Crari Gate Pr!,,(
with shadow pricing    1 0 0 lJ94                      99 169          98 606          98.044 98 606
(US$1= CFAF280)
1/ Bank forecast prices of November 26, 1975 in 1973 constant dollars, adjusted to 1976 terme.



ANNEX 2
Table 13
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
------------------------------- Year -------------------------------------
1              2               3               4              5-20
A.   Benefits
Economic Prices (CFAF/ton)
Cotton I/                        115,459         110,865        110,865         110,865         110,865
Sorghum 2/                        30,000          30,000         30,000          30,000          30,000
Wheat 3/                             -            98,606         98,044          98,606         100,013
Economic Benefits
(CFAF '000) 4/
Cotton                             9,294          35,826         84,146          98,298        107,096
Sorghum                            1,725           6,986         16,560          19,751          21,735
Wheat                                -             9.072         36,531          84,801          96,613
Total Economic Benefits        11,019          51.884       137.237   _   202.850           22S 444
B.   Costs (CFAF  1000)
Investments Costs 5/             129,260         235,910        339,590            -               -
Inputs Perimeters 6/               2,949          16,338         45,227         69,993          69,993
Operating Costs ONDR 6/            -               -               -             47,021          41,08:
Subtotal                      132.209         252,248        384,817         117,014        111074
7/
Adjustments for Shadow
Pricing
Investment Costs  8/              17,773          32,438         46,694            -               -
Inputs - Perimeters                  450           2,492          6,897          10,674          10,674
Operating Costs ONDR  10/          -               -               -              2,116           1.849
Subtot-il                      18.223          34,930         53,591          12.790         12.523
Total Economic Costs          150.432         287,178        438,408         129,804        123,597
C.   NET BENEFITS                        (139,413)       (235,294)    (30l.71.)           ?3,046       101,847
1/   1 ton of seed cotton yielding 370 kg lint, economic price Table 11.
2/   Local market price.
3/   Table 12.
4/   Production per perimeter Table 4, phasing Table 9.
5/   Table 9.
6/   Table 10.
7/   1 US$ = CFAF 280.
8/   55% FE.
9/   61% FE.
10/  18% FE.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Soil Survey Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The objective of the survey would be to determine the most suitable
location of small perimeters along the Chari to be developed for pumped irrig-
ation.
2.        The zone covered by the survey would be a maximum of 750 km2 extend-
ing from N'Djamena to Bousso and covering a band about 1.5 km wide on each side
of the high water channel of the Chari.
3.        The survey would be a reconnaissance survey based on photo-interpre-
tation of existing air photography controlled by ground traverses, soil auger
sampling and examination of soil pits. The maximum distance between control
traverses would be 2 km.  Auger samples to a depth of 1.5 m would be at a
density not less than one hole per 2.5 km2. Two soil pits 1.5 m deep would
be dug in each major soil type identified to enable soil profiles to be exa-
mined and described. The minimum area of a soil type to be mapped would be
16 ha.
4.        Soil profile descriptions would include color, texture, depth,
structure, consistency, pH.
5.        Samples from soil pits for a full profile study would be analyzed
tO determine chemical and physical properties. Chemical characteristics to
be tested would include electrical conductivity, pH in soil/water suspension,
cation exchange capacity, base status, organic matter, toxic ions, salinity/
alkali content. Physical characteristics to be tested would be texture,
bulk density, water retention at field capacity. Infiltration rates would
be estimated for each major soil type.
6.        On the basis of the above information soil mapping would be carried
out either on 1:50,000 base maps or 1:50,000 semi-controlled air photo mosaics.
7.        From the soil mapping and field data, a land capability map would be
prepared to the same scale, boundaries between different land classes being
determined where necessary by additional field sampling and testing.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
WAREHOUSES
General
1.        The supply of crop inputs, mainly seed, fertilizer and insecticide
for cotton in the southwest of the country, is organized by ONDR. Inputs
are transported as backloads on Cotontchad trucks from central depots to
the 400 cotton markets. There, the inputs are stored for up to five months,
usually in the open air, until the local ONDR agent allocates them to farmers
as credit-in-kind.
2
2.        ONDÉ presently has a total covered-storage area of 9,500 e , of
which 6,000 m  is located in 18 small towns (Table 1).  The 3,500 m  in ru5al
areas2are sited in 36 different locations, with warehouses usually of 90 m or
120 m . ONDR thereby has covered storage at about 10% of the cotton markets.
The total tonnage of inputs distributed remained almost unchanged at about
15,000 tons/year from 1968/69 to 1972/73. Annual tonnage has since increased
to over 24,000 in 1975/76 and ONDR plans to distribute over 27,000 tons for
1976/77. The corresponding storage area required, allowing for storag2 to a
height of 3 m and lolt space for access inside warehouses, is 15,600 m  in
1975/76 and 17,200 m for 21976/77 (Table 2). Given present ftorage capacity
in rural areas of 3,500 m , the 'gap' in 1976/77 is 13,700 m
The Subproject
3.        The subproject2would provide for the const5uction at cotton markets
°2 82 warehouses of 90 m and 118 warehouses of 60 m , a total area of 14,460
m . The warehouses would be built to standard Genie Rural designs, with con-
crete foundations, plastered brickwork walls, steel fixtures and corrugated
aluminum sheet roofing.
4.        An indicative schedule of the proposed locations is at Table 3.
Specific locations would be identified by ONDR and submitted to RPF for ap-
proval. Since the total subproject cost is too small to attract interna-
tional competitive bidding, all construction would be undertaken by local
building firms.  The Chadian building industry consists of two large com-
panies (one of which is a parastatal organization), six medium size compa-
nies with experienced management, and about 20 smaller local enterprises.
Contract lots for the input warehouses will be designed to achieve the most
judicious balance between two conflicting objectives: rapid and straight-
forward execution on the one hand, and promotion of small local enterprises
on the other. ONDR would arrange with a government department to act as
supervising engineer and would become the owner of the warehouses on com-
pletion.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Subproject Costs
5.        Total subproject costs at mid-1976 net-of-tax prices are CFAF 477
million (Table 4). Summary costs are as follows:
-------------CFAF Million --
Local     Foreign       Total         FE%
Construction of warehouses               312.3       121.5       433.8          28
Engineering supervision                   21.7         -           21.7        -
Physical contingencies                     9.1        12.6         21.7         58
Total                              343.1       134.1        477.2         28
The schedule of expenditure is as follows:
CFAF Million
PY 1                         191.1
PY 2                         145.5
PY 3                         140.6
477.2
Justification
6.        The 200 warehouses will permit covered storage and therefore better
germination of cotton seed, more orderly handling and therefore fewer break-
ages of fertilizer sacks, and lockable storage and therefore less theft.
The problem of orderly distribution of inputs in a context of subsidized
input prices and inadequate finance will also be eased. In 1975/76, over-
all demand for inputs exceeded aggregate supply although the situation was
not the same at all distribution points. At those markets where the deficit
in supply was acute, local ONDR staff had an almost unmanageable task in
trying to arrange an equitable distribution of the available inputs. The
same situation is expected to arise in 1976/77 even though ONDR has bud-
geted, and obtained the finance, for an increase from 125,000 ha to 145,000
ha under 'productivity cotton', and during the as yet unspecified period in
which the subsidy on fertilizer and insecticide will gradually be phased out.
To the extent to which ONDR is able to realize its intention to promote the
use of improved inputs on food crops, the benefits arising from covered, lock-
able storage will apply to these inputs too.
7.        The proposed construction program will provide a warehouse at
50% of the existing cotton markets, through which about 60% of present in-
put volumes are distribut2d. Present storage needs at these distqibution
points amount to 10,300 m and it is intended to provide 14,500 m . The
resulting storage capacity will be fully utilized in 1980 if input use
increases by 9%/year.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        After completion of the construction program, covered storage
facilities will be available at 236 out of the existing 400 cotton markets.
These are by definition the larger cotton markets handling a cotton output
of over 500 tons/market or the produce of about 1,000 ha. Each of these
markets serves many village communities and it is for this reason that no
villager participation in warehouse construction could be envisaged.
9.        A rate of return of about 20% over 10 years would be obtained
from the following series of assumptions:
(a) all foreign exchange components are increased by a
factor of 1.25;
(b) no maintenance would be required if a 10-year project
life were assumed;
(c) 50% of benefits arise in the same year as construction,
i.e. 50% of the annual construction program is completed
in the first half of the dry season and those warehouses
are used for input storage in that dry season;
(d) 60% of cotton inputs are distributed and 60% of output
(or 180,000 tons in 1975/76) is collected at the 200
markets where warehouses would be constructed; this
would be worth CFAF 12 billion at the economie farmgate
price of CFAF lll/kg (Annex 2, Table 11);
(e) as a proxy for the benefits arising from better seed
germination, avoidance of broken fertilizer sacks and
avoidance of theft (which permits distribution as credit-
in-kind, cost recovery and financing in the following
year of the quantity of fertilizer and insecticide that
would otherwise have been stolen), it is assumed that
cotton output increases by 1% on the 1975/76 level
which passes through the 200 market sites; the value
of this additional output, which would be obtained at
no additional cost, is CFAF 120 million;
(f) no allowance for future increases in cotton output
nor of benefits arising from the use of the ware-
houses for inputs for food crops is made, even   2
though costs relate to a storage area of 14,500 m
which is 40% greater than the area required for the
1976/77 input volume.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
On these assumptions, economic costs and benefits would be as
follows:
Project Year       1       2        3        4-10
-----    CFAF million ----------
Costs                             204.5   155.7   150.4         -
Benefits                           24.3    66.8   103.3        120.0
Net Benefits                     -180.2   -88.9   -47.1        120.0
IER = 19.8%



ANNEX 3
CRAn                                                          Table I
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
WAPU.{OUSES
Location of Ebisting OIMR Warehouses and Cotontchad
Gianeries and Su'snary of Proposed ONDR Warehouses
- ______________________-----ONDE Warehouses------------------------------
Lecatione                        Ginnery                                  /1                                  /2                          /3
capacity                 Built pre 1971                    Current P                            Planned
tans/year                --------------------------------------m --------------------------------
West Logone
Moundou                           10,500                        1,220                               150
Doher                              7,000
Benoye                                                             60
Beinamar                           7,000
Rural areas                                                       120                               120                             2,190
East_loJgn
Bebedjia                                                          210
Doba                              11,500                         500
Gore                               5,250                          120
Baibok' m
Pandzangue                         7,000
Rural areas                                                      240                               240                             2,91f0
Lai                                                                                                  60
1(elc                             23,000                          150
Bere
Guidari                            7,000                           60
Rural areas                                                      300                                                               2,160
Maio Kebb!
Bongor                             7,000
Fianga                             7,000                          60
Gouinou-Gaya                      17,000                           60
9ala                             13,000                        1,864
Lere                             17,000                           60
Rural areas                                                      924                               270                             3,630
MoenChari
Sarh                               7,000                         100                               150
Koumra                             7,000                          200
Kyabe                              2,750
Maro                                                               60
Moissala                           7,000                         245
Kokabri                            7,000
Rural areas                                                    1,080                                90                             2i;.820
Chari _Bairmi
Bousso                             3,500                           60
Onoko                              1,750
N DJamena                                                                                          450
Guelengdeng                                                                                         90
Rural areasT                                                                                       120                               '20
/4
Total                        175,250                         7j3                              146
of which:
Towns                                                        5,089                               900
Rural areas                                                  2,664                              8o: 460
Source:   ONDR Aannal Reports and inventory as at 10/1/1975.
/1 Various prograims; ahout 40% of the total area is now more than 10 years old
/2  Financed by FED; about 50% of the total area has beeni completed
/3  Details at Table 3
/4  Excludes the ginneries a- Ai Timam (Salamat prefecture) and Malfi (Guera prefecture) witIh
a oombined cepacity of 8,750 tons/year.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
WAREHOUSES
Storage Capacity Required
Crop Season                                           1970/71      1975/76      1976/77
Unit
2/
Area under productivity cotton 1/             Ha            40,000       125,000      145,000
Fertilizer at 100 kg/ha                  t.             4,000        12,500      14,500
Insecticide at 9 kg/ha                   t.               360         1,125       1,305
Total Cotton area   1/                        Ha           3QQ,QQQ       295,000      315,000 -
Seed at 35 kg/hr                         t.            lU101
Ox -drawn implements 4/                  t.               540        l0o°           ,g42
Total tonnage of inputs                  t             15,400        24,490      27,370
Effective storage required 5/                 m2            26,020        35,190       38,830
Nominal area required   6/                    m             11,600        15,600       17,200
1/   Annex 1, Table 3.
2/   The area for which ONDR has already ordered inputs for planting in mid-1976.
3/   Mission estimate.
4/   8,000 ploughs at 30 kgplus carts and other implements at 300 tons.
5/   Densities: fertilizer 1.0; insecticide 0.75; cotton seed 0.5; implements are negligible
in tonnage and density is taken as unity.                           2
6/   Storage up to 3m in height; walkways in warehouses of 60 and 90 m  involve a loss of
25% of overall volume; nominal area is 44.4eof effective storage requirement.



CiIA                                                                    ANNEX 3
Table 3
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
WAREHOUSES
Indicative Schedule of Locations of N s Warehouses
No. Warehouses                                                         IL. Warehouses
Z'refectures   /l               2              2                       Prefectures                     2               2
and Subsectors             90 m           60 m                         and Subsectors              90 m           60 m
West to&2                                                              Mayo Kebbi (cont.)
Mouilxos Center              1               2                         Gounou Gaya                   1               3
Moundou West                  1              2                         Leo                           2               2
Krim Krim                    2               2                         Tagal                         3               3
Ba,                          2               2                         Berem                         1               1
Benoye South                 2               2                         Reras                         1               1
Benoye North                 1               3                         Youe                          1               1
Beinarmar Center             2               2                              Subtotal                21              29
Beinmar North                2               2
Subtotal               13             17  MoyenChar
Roumra Center                 1              3
East Loeone                                                            Koumra Nçrth                  1               3
Doba North                   2               3                         Io-umra S uth                 1               2
Bado                         2      i        3                         Noissala varth                3               3
Beboto                       2    N          2                         Moissala S-uth                1               2
Bebedjia                     2               2                         Sarh                          1               2
Gore North                   2               3                         Koumogo                       1               2
Gore South                   2               2                         Ballmba                       1               1
Baibokium                    2               2                         Maro                          2               3
Besoro                       2               3                         Donamadje                     1               3
Laramanaye                   2               2                         Ryabe                         1              2
Subtotal               18             22                              Subtotal                 14             26
Tand»ile                                                               Chari-Basuinmi
<eto                         2               4                         Guelendeng                    1               2
Bera                         2               2                         Bousso                        2              3
Dlo:xanianja                 2               4                         Massemeya                     t               1
Lid                          3               5                             Subtotal                  4              6
Gxitdarl                     3               3
Subtotal               12             18                              Grand Total             82             118
Mayo Kebbi
Pata Er le                   i               1
SorLa                        t               i
i.lSls iat,L   1   1
9ad-l.                       2               2
Torr)k                       2               2
Gagil                         t              3
Kouradje                     1               2
Lere                         2               2
Lagon                        1               z
Binder                       1               2
(cont.)
Source:  ONDLl Secir O&ficers' inventory.
/1  ONDR's fietd operatLons are orsanltsed hy 'Sector' (1 or 2 per prefecture) and then by  'Subsector' (between 5 and 9 per
SecnI:r).  Each Subsector iicltides onq average 4 cantons, the smallest anaietstrative unit.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
WAREHOUSES
Unit Costs and Schedule of Expenditure
1.  Coat Der warehouse  ( mid 1975 net-of-tax prices)
60 m2              9  m2
Unit       Unit cost    No.   Total cost   No.   Total costL
(CFAF '000)          (CFAF '000)          (CFAF '000)
Cement                                t3           48.o        5.5        264      9.5      456
Stone n                                             1.0      15.5          16     31.0        31
Sand                                  m3             0.5     13.0           7     22.5        il
Bricks                              thousand        55.0       3.0        165       3.9     215
Steel reinforcement (lintols)         k5            0.15    50              8     70         il
Shuttering                            m             1.0       7             7      9           9
Steel trusses  6m spen                Io.          60.0       3           180      -           -
"t     ",    Bm spt                No.           80.0       -            -       3        240
Steel windows  2m x lm               No.           20.0       2            40       3        60
Sliding steel doors 3m x 2m          No.           4o.o       1            40      i         4o
Corrugated aluminium roof             n2            0.75      6            65    122         92
sheeting
Subtotal: Materials                                                      792               1165
Transport from N'Djamena/ Moundou l/                   6o                 88
Local transport of stone and sand 2/                   23                 43
Total: Supply of materials                                               875               1296
Cost/m2                                                14.6            14.4
Labor, supervision, overhead, profit: 100% 3/                             14.6             14.4
2~~~~~~~~~~~~
l'otal contract cost/m 229.2                                                               28.8
1/ Average distance 200km, CFAF 20/tkm; 15 tons materials per 60m  warehouse; 22 tons per
90 m warehouse.
2/ Average distance 20 km, CFAF 40/tKm.
3/ Inferred from contracts let for small lots of warehouses in 1975 for which unit net-of-
tax costs were CFAF 25-30,000/m2, or more for remote locations. For substantial contract
lots, a significant reduction in cost per warebouse may be expected;            for budgetary
purposes, a unit cost of CFAF 30,000/m2  is adopted at midj_BILnet-of-tax prices.
2. Total Costs ( mid 1976 net-of-tax prices)
Unit         PY1        PY2        PY3       Total
Construction achedule V
90m' -wrarehouses              No.           33         25         24        82
6om2 warehouses                No.           47         36         35       118
Total area                     m2          5790       4410       4260    14460
---------CFAF million---------- _FE %
Costs at CFAF 30,000/m2 2/                      173.7      132.3      127.$   433.8   28
Engineering supervision 3/                        8.7        6.6        6.4    21.7
Physical contingencies 4/                         8.7        6.6        6.4    21.7   58
Total                                           191.1      145.5      140.6   477.2   28
1/ PYl: 40%; FY2 and Pï3: 30% each.
2/ 50% for supply of mrterials; 50% for labor, supervision, overhead and contractoras
profit.
3/ 5% on base cost ( G. R. estimate) on the assumption that there wili be many small
lot contracts avarded to small local enterprises.
4/ 10% on supply of materials, i.e. 5% of base costs.
5/ 85% of unît cost of cement, all steel, and aluminuw  roof sheeting.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
PASTORAL WELLS: BATHA PREFECTURE
General
1.        The Batha prefecture covers 90,000 km  in the Sahelian zone, with a
rainy season of 3-4 months and annual rainfall ranging between 600 mm in the
south and 200 mm in the north. The total population is about 350,000 of whom
one-third are sedentarized farmers; the pastoral population is about 200,000.
The Batha prefecture was one of the least affected areas during the drought
due to the transhumant traditions and skill of the pastoral people. The
end-1973 livestock population was tentatively estimated at 725,000 head of
cattle (nearly 25% of the national herd), 750,000 sheep and goats, 100,000
camels, 50,000 donkeys and 20,000 horses (Annex I, Table 4). More reliable
information will become available after completion of the current livestock
census.
2.        The seasonal movement of herdsmen takes place at the beginning of
the rainy season, when cattle are moved north behind the rains and surface
water is generally available; later, as the rains retreat south, cattle are
moved back into the south of Batha prefecture towards Lake Fitri or even fur-
ther south into the Guera and Salamat prefecture. During the 8-9 month dry
season, surface water is negligible in the south of Batha prefecture, except
around Lake Fitri, and wells are required for stock watering. Shallow wells
of up to 25 m depth are easily dug in light soils by local people using tra-
ditional means. In less favorable conditions, wells of 30-70 m depth are
required and open wells are preferable to boreholes in remote areas since
the latter imply costly and unreliable pumping and maintenance 1/. The
deep open wells have to be constructed and maintained by specialized teams
with appropriate equipment. The presence and depth of groundwater is shown
on Map 12059.  There is only a small area to the southeast of the prefecture
where the groundwater potential is not known. Further east, in Biltine and
Ouaddai prefectures, knowledge of groundwater potential is limited.
3.        In September 1975, Bureau de l'Eau (BE), the hydrogeological
service, recorded 335 modern lined wells and 246 traditional wells in
Batha prefecture. Most if not all the lined wells are used mainly for
stock watering while the traditional wells serve both village and pastoral
needs; about 30% of the Batha livestock rely on traditional wells. The
1/   In view of recent technical progress, it is likely that water extrac-
tion from boreholes of up to 80 m depth using animal power will be
feasible in the near future.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
modern wells have been constructed under various external aid programs
since the early 1950s and about 100 lined wells were built by the MRA 1/
in the early 1970s. The latter are presently being studied by the BE and
it is known that the first MRA wells were not satisfactorily designed and
some need completing. In addition, a survey of 102 older wells was car-
ried out by the German consulting firm GKW 2/ in 1974.  It seems that
about 50% of the 335 lined wells need only minor repairs or regular main-
tenance, another 25% require medium-scale repairs, and the remainder re-
quire completion, major repairs or even reconstruction.
4.        Under Credit 309-CD, signed in 1972, it was planned (a) to repair
102 wells and to construct 38 new wells in the Batha prefecture, (b) to
establish two well maintenance units at Ati (Batha) and Abeche (Ouaddai),
and (c) to finance studies on the livestock sector. Implementation did not
begin until 1974 and only after IDA had agreed to set up an imprest account
and to finance 100% of project costs. The project was drastically reduced
in scope in view of general inflation, the absence of a government contribu-
tion, and depreciation of the dollar. The well program was limited to the
construction of 18 new wells and to 18 well repairs, and the equipment and
initial operating funds for the maintenance units were reduced. While the
project is presently being implemented satisfactorily, it will fall far
short of its original goal of providing an effective water supply to Batha
livestock. During project revision in 1974, assurances were repeatedly
given to Government that a subsequent project would finance much of the
work that could no longer be financed from Credit 309-CD.
5.        The SERARHY, an executing agency of the Rural Engineering Depart-
ment (Genie Rural/GR), is charged with (a) well and borehole maintenance,
(b) borehole operation, and (c) construction of new wells and drilling of
new boreholes. SERARHY has recently started large scale operations with
finance from several external assistance agencies for the establishment
and operation of its headquarters at N'Djamena, and its six field units
at Ati (Batha), Abeche (Ouaddai), Mao (Kanem), N'Djamena (Chari-Baguirmi),
Sarh and Koumra (Moyen Chari). The buildings for the Batha unit were fi-
nanced under Credit 309-CD; its equipment consists of two trucks, two
light vehicles, two derricks and their implements, one compressor and
smaller items (Table 3), but this is insufficient to constitute an ef-
fective, manageable maintenance unit.
The Maintenance Problem
6.        Currently, lined wells are state property and no rent or lease
of any kind has been exacted to help finance well maintenance. After the
1/   Mouvement de la Reforme Administrative, a French-financed and
managed agency whose operations ceased recently.
2/   Gesellschaft fuer Klaeranlagen und Wasserversorgung.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
recent programs of construction of new wells, maintenance requirements are
increasing steadily but Government is simply unable to finance maintenance
units, particularly since the cancellation of the livestock tax during the
drought. The existing lined wells in Batha prefecture are worth about CFAF
2 billion at present construction costs and the capital stock is deteriorat-
ing by about 5%/year. Although external assistance has financed maintenance
equipment and even some operating costs as part of the drought relief effort,
that assistance is about to end and regular maintenance will again depend
on inadequate Government finances. Meantime, a study of livestock taxa-
tion financed by the Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD) is getting under
way; this is expected to provide the basis for more effective taxation of
the livestock sector which, in turn, could assure more adequate finance for
well maintenance, provided Government takes appropriate measures.
7.        At the same time it is desirable that land and well use rights for
sDecific areas be extended to properly defined pastoral groups, who have
traditionally occupied the land. This would, first, allow pastoralists to
make better use of the grazing resource and to develop a sense of ownership
and responsibility. Tle danger of overstocking would thus be reduced and a
higher degree of drought-proofing be achieved. Second, Government could
expect pastoral groups to contribute to the maintenance of infrastructural
improvements on their land, and thus recover costs from the beneficiaries.
The proposed range and livestock survey for the Batha prefecture to be fi-
nanced under Credit 309-CD would identify such pastoral groups. Govern-
ment has agreed that these groups be granted formal land use and watering
rights within two years of subproject effectiveness and that specific arrange-
ments, acceptable to IDA, would be made for those groups to contribute to the
maintenance of pastoral infrastructure, including wells.
The Subproiect
8.        The subproject would provide equipment and technical assistance
to the SERARHY maintenance unit at Ati and finance all operating costs for
three years (Table 1). The unit would undertake repair and maintenance of
the existing well network as its primary task; construction of any new
wells or reconstruction of old wells would be subject to the recommenda-
tions of the range and livestock survey (of which the terms of reference
are at Appendix 1) to be financed under Credit 309-CD. The subproject is
a follow-up to that Credit but it will put more emphasis on maintenance.
The Ati unit would be strengthened by the addition of three derricks, one
four-wheel-drive 10-12 ton truck and some small implements. Replacement
of existing equipment would be financed in PY 2 and PY 3 (details in Table
2). The annual capacity of the strengthened unit and approximate costs for
each type of work that may be undertaken - taking into account amortization
as at Table 1 - are as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Annual     Unit Cost      Total Cost
Type of Work                                Capacity    ------CFAF million------
Regular maintenance and minor repairs    35 wells          0.25             8.8
Medium-scale repairs                        22 wells       1.0             22.0
Major repairs or completion                 16 wells       1.5             24.0
New wells /1                                165 m.         0.08            13.2
Total                                                           68.0
/1   Three wells of 55 m, the average depth in the Batha prefecture.
A detailed work program would be prepared by GR each year and submitted to
IDA for approval.
9.        Technical assistance will be required to ensure that efficient
operating procedures are well established from the outset and that senior
staff obtain sound technical and managerial experience. The subproject
would finance a senior well digger who would be assigned full-time to the
Ati unit and a senior mechanic who would divide his time between the Ati
and Abeche units. Technical assistance to SERARHY's headquarters for plan-
ning and management is presently provided by FAC and it is essential that
that assistance continue for several years.
Subproject Costs
10.       The estimated costs at 1976 net-of-tax prices, including physical
contingencies, are as follows:
------CFAF Million ------         FE%
Local   Foreign    Total
Equipment                           8.0      31.9        39.9        80
Operating costs                    77.9      77.4       155.3         49
Technical assistance               13.2      52.7        65.9         80
Total                         99.1    162.0       261.1         62
The estimated schedule of expenditure is:
--------CFAF Million-----
PY 1      PY 2        PY 3      Total
Equipment                          32.4        0.1         7.4      39.9
Operating costs                    51.8       51.8        51.7      155.3
Technical assistance               22.0       22.0        21.9       65.9
Total                        106.2       73.9        81.0     261.1



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Justification
11.       By rehabilitating the network of lined wells, and provided regular
maintenance is assured after PY 3, livestock numbers could increase through
natural growth by 135,000 cattle and by 140,000 sheep and goats over 10 years.
At present prices, the increase in annual offtake between PY 1 and PY Il is
valued at CFAF 415 million and the increase in milk production at CFAF 92
million. The direct beneficiaries would be the 200,000 pastoral people who
own the livestock which depends for watering on lined wells in Batha. Their
annual incomes would increase, after having paid for the operating cost of
the Ati unit by CFAF 2,270/head (US$10) from the present level of CFAF 9,600/
head (US$43). Without the project, the number of livestock dependent on
lined wells would fall in line with the deterioration of unmaintained wells
(5%/year) and, unless people and livestock moved to other areas, incomes
would fall accordingly.
12.       Provided that funds for operating costs in Year 4 and thereafter
are assured, the economic rate of return over 20 years is about 19% (Table 3).
13.       The Ati unit is not yet operational and finance available under
Credit 309-CD will suffice for only 4-5 months in 1976. This subproject will
have a significant institution building effect in that, after three years
supervised operations, the Ati unit should be a technically viable institu-
tion. Its financial viability will, however, depend on Government provision
of about CFAF 50 million/year and this, in turn, will depend on raising in-
creased revenue from the livestock sector.



_HAD                                                                                      Tible 1
RURAL PiOJECTS FU0_
PASTORAL IELLS-BATIIA PREFECTORE
ASl Well Maintsnance Unit
Y026Iv 0per. Cspa Tch ai Anatate Ca.ts
Unit            UIit c,t                1N5  50           Local             F.tetc                Tocalt
JCFAF,0 00)            lJnhta
A   Local Personnel .1
Ma -sai cou  diggiog Ceci_                                                No;                 574.5                    3          R,737 0                                   ,735                  C
Derrick cents  37                                 Os,                ~~~~~~~~                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~691.5  S  3,457.0 -           .5. 
lcpiv castea  4/                                                          Ns.                1912.5                    1            1,912.5               -                 ,912.50
Oeil  inioig Mess 5/                                                      Ns                  454.5                    1            464.5                  _                 484.5                0
Wsr4,bsp tesm S/                                                          NI.                18s8.0                    i          1.8os0                   -                ,88.9                 0
Bookkieeper                                                                n                  250.0                                 250.0 a                                  250.0                a
Foreeso                                                 155~~~        ~ ~~~~~~~                            ~     ~~~~~~~~~.- -  730.8  i  750.0            750.0 
Toit Chiot                                                               Ns                      ,1. 750.0             i            750,0                                   750.0
Field Allouacet 13035                                                                        2243.1                               2,243.1                                  2,243.1                D
Subtetal                                                                                       13,458.6                 -               13,458.6
RTecholesl Anninss3ce _t
Secior dlgger                                                             oN.               14650                      t          Z,930.0               5,3 20.0           4                     80
Sottis  -lerhcic  8/                                                      No.               14650                      0.5        1 .4650               5.860.0            7 325.0               80
Subtotal                                                                                        4.395.0              17_580.0           2i.0 Oô 80
Total Peecannel                                                                                17,853.6              17,580.0           ?3,433.6               50
C   Materilso  9/
Cenent   13.3t e 14                                                        t                   55.0                  186.2        2.048.2              80192.8            10,241.0               80
Cravel   30.5 c.m. c 14                                                   an,3                  6.0                  539          3,234.0                 _                3,234.0                0
lnn     17 _ cr.r  4c3                                                                           'O                 238            714.0                                    714.0 
Oster    10 c     c 14                                                    ' 3                   35                   140            21070                 -                  210.0                0
1ien      4.65 t n 14                                                      t                  220.0                   23.1        1,016.4               4.o65.6            3,9.5ô2.              S0
Stirrup   100 a. a 14                                                    37O                    0.6                1400             168.0                  672-0             840.0               80
OIthar                                                                                         50.0                   14          _25.6                   445.4              700.0               64
Sabtota1                                                                                       7,545.2               cAS375 8          il.021.0
L eOp traclon acd 3aintence cf ve-hin.e  .ed  se.inss
Spare pcrca mahlcînt actA en.3ce, .E./ t.t4                                                                                         544.8               2,179.2            2.724.0               go
R_smico cocen sf 4-.1te31 deics vehisse.          /                       No.                1100                      2            440.0               1.760.0            2,200.0               80
6 t. tennis                   12/                      Na.                160                       2             792.0              3, 168.0           3, 960.0              B0
10 t. tr-ck                    13/                      Ns                 2640                      1             528.0              2 112.0            3.640.0               80
Compresser acgt- e                               14/                      K.                  495                      i             99.0                 396.0              495.0               80
Crame engitne                                     N/ N.                                       115                      5            115.0                 4600               575. 0              80
nhbtcta1                                                                                        2, 518.0             10.07522            2, s94. 0             80
E   Overhead acd Firsical Cantcneeciee 107.  01/                                                 4707.4                               2,.362.3              2,345.1            4,737.4               50
Tptal Operatica Cesta  -cd Tech.ic-l Assistance                                                                                  30.379.9              43.376.1           73,756.0               59
1/    .end   field pemea.c. 1 cth« th.n . imar, * schaneis *3d charRahand  aee Piid only 9 .nOthc/yeam.
I ahsrgêslcd digge  (CFAF 16,(7 c 12  -atlth.), 2 .asistcnt dîsgBes (CFAF 10,000 c 9  -octh.) acd 3 lcbcrcee
(CFA? 7,500 c 9 s-th.).
2/    idem  Fart skilted  habo.n (CFAP 13,000 c 9 solthe).
4/    3 drisers (CFA? 25,000 c 12 menthe) acd 15 Iabsese.  (CFAF 7,500 c 9 nanthel
5/    I cheeg.hasd  -asan (CFAF 16,000 c 12 m-cths., I assistsct  enso  (CFA? 10,000 n 9 .oasth.) and 3 laborks  (CFAF
7,500 c 9  -ssth.).
6/    I Chief -,chaîic (CFAY 700,000/yeae), 2 sachacice (CFAF 14,500 c 12  -nthe) 2 a.sictact mcchsciee (CPAF 12,000 s
12  -enth.), I driver (C<AF 16,000 c 12  -cacth.)a   4 laboret   Acd I ,atch-n,  (CFA0 7,500 c 12  oocthe).
7    lateldinS  aeùeehed *nd Phy.ical Contingeece  (10%).
Th/ Te 55h1cr mechacit sill be  eh-red by tie 6tt  acd ASecth  utcts
0t/    The aePact ef aateeiale te ccmpctcd to constesct 14 selle.
50/    0RRz I   ecrit
Il/    40,000 i,a/y..e/,ehinl1
12/    40,000 As/ir/veticte
13/    40,000 hs,/y&ea
14/    500 h/ecte
15/    1500 h/ re ang- ce/pese
16/     10% an c.et  ather thas teclht.al e               -tistanea casis



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
PASTORAL WEL-tLJ- =TATHA PBEFCTIjRE
Ati Well Maintenance Unit
Complementary Investment Requirements for Eguipment
Available
Effec- before
tive  Development   YEAR  1             YEAR  2         YEAR  3        TOTAL
Unit Cost Life  No.   Cost  No.    Cost          No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost  F.E.
CFAF'000 Yrs.        CEAFOO0      CFA1'OOQ         CFAF'OOO        CFAF'000        CFAF'QOO  %
Sheerlegs, winch and cable                250    5    4    1,000  2          500       --       _       _      _       2       500   80
Bailer                                    200    3    1         200  -       ---       --      --        1     200    1        200   80
Derrick                                 3,700   10    2    7,400  3   11,100           --      --      --      ---    3   11,100   80
Motor                                     6oo    3    2    1,200  3    1,800           --      --        2   1,200    5    3,000   80
Clamshell grab                          1,700    5    2    3,400  3    5,100           --      --      --      ---    3    5,100   80
Flexible hose                             375    3    1         375  -       ---       __      __       1      375    1        375   80
Prefabricated pipe mould                1,000   10    2    2,000  1    1,000           -_      _        _      _       1    1,000   80
Well lining shutters                      280    5    4    1,120  6    1,680           --      --      --      ---    6    1,680   80
Bowsers                                   4oo   10    1         4oo  1       4oo       --      --      --      --_    1        4oo   8o
200 1 self-tipping bucket                 110    5    2        220  1        110       --      --      --              1       110   80
50 1 self-tipping bucket                   50    5    4        200  6        300               --      --              6       300   80
Well sinking tools                        150    3    4         600  2       300       --      --       4      6oo    6        900   80
Tool box                                  100    2    1         100  1       100        1    100        1      100    3        300   80
Tools                                      50    3    1          50  1        50       --      --       1       50    2        100   80
Four-wheel-drive vehicle                2,4oo    3    2    4,800  -          ---       __      __       2   4,8oo    2    4,8oo   80
Four-wheel-drive 10-12 t truck         10,000    5                   i -----  1   10,000  --   --      --      ---    1   10,000   80
Other equipment  /1                                         50,950                     __
TOTAL                                 74,015        32,44o              100            7,325         39,865   Bo
/1  Including 1 compressor at CFAF 3.0 million; buckle, cable etc. at CFAF 650,000; 1 well head shutter at CFAF 300,000;
2 7-ton four-wheel-drive trucks at CFAF 8.5 million; equipment, workshop and office at CFAF 5.0 million; buildings
at CFAF 25.0 million.
ro



wic.                                              730.5        Mo           .5      779.1      791.       806, 1     819. 6     833.2      846.7      90.2        860,2       8604 2       0302 .     0.0860.2 - 9.0 88.                         862.2 008.
_______   I          2          2          4          5~~~~~~~~~~~~  6      3          8          8          10         11.          12         13         14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  14   1~3       21           2813      5a,3    2,3
.îefcaice dISnet pcnJ.et t)   e           54.3       89.5        713        11.5       76.7       72.7       47.0      03.5       59.1        54.7       50.3         5.5        41.5       37.1932.7417.3                   28.3$28.3              23 3     23 
Strass salue u113,uac prejeet     33.8.      33.0        33.9       33.9       33.3       33.3       330       33.8       33.8        33.8       38.9         33.8       33.8       33.8       îî,e        n 33S  0.8  i3.           8.               o51~
9421.6e ufîlo peetuet 70                                                 9.       522          2.        84.2       85.1       87.2       89.7      90.2       91.6        931       111.8        151.8      I15.6      111.8      111.8      555.8       102.8      Ilia 8     221.    1.21.
CyOfl68u naine                                         000 mIllion
lolSc-t noIent  'S                                              2,423      2,338      2.230      2,3.37     0,014      3,936      1,889    L'ail       ±,,20       1,835      1,,347       1,459      1,330      0,08i      l'lm5         861        861        467        567    .587
olfîSrelet                                                    1,033      1,628      3,634         , ho,    1.713      1.743        7I5>3   188:3      1,432       2.963      3,237       2,m37      2,797      3,2.37      2,3'        ,197      2,237       ?.23       2,237   2,2332
Vals    t 1eneeal mOllo pr~cdotleo   /                              0         32         65         97        128        161        l%         216        758        280        333         347         370        363        .46        439        438         439        439      439
veu   Otoaroasecs  -atts podtin030)                                        (681)      (8333       (381)      (2321       3813        68        218        345        003      1.013       1,128      1.238      2,367       1, 5535,13'?, 114q               21,53       5,5)    1, v9
th* hofd fi                                                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8,991
750        715        bu8        6.68       610        335        340        305        470        435        405          400        356        388        299        23          268        260        080      280
fîd  n.iitian  Puejant Li15                                                 06         778        791        806        850        834        6668       062        876        830          809   0    8"         89         990        10          890        a"0        00       kw
offtelnu ufîlonci pro/e06                 0060~~~~~~~cFA  onllî,- 228.0  214.5  204.9     193.80     183.0      172.5      162.0      151.3      141.0      130.5      120.0        108.5       90.9       s6.6       78.0~      78.0        78.5       78.        76.0    78.0
Ses,019 07oo                                                       35.        38. .0        0       380        35.0       88.9       33.0       3.          3.        3.         23~5.0       330        2350       335     33.S                       6l         a            
7(10.4,00. .1>4  rcjeeî  /                                      210.       23.        217.8a      21:1.3     216.7     328.6       2"3.5      333.4      24,1.-4    2435.:3    267.0        26.5       27.9D      247,9      7'O'    243.2          257.0      267.0      367.0   267.0
offî66e value aLlient ,r,o.n,0  ,1.0                ~~~~      ~~~~ ~~380  374  389    343        3270       311        296        260         643       248        22 17                   2501       183        170         170        170        178        170      170
uit), peo~~~~~a..n    /in      '         32.8       33~~lis 2  327        303        133         344,      350        336         362        368        401         401        481        401         401        401        301        401        .400     101
Value cf lnîuouacîalchu.'p unij-nl onoutIn753                            3532       (323       (10>        52         37         54         76         88         120        158         184        284        302         21.5       231        230        231        270      238
Intel cf îucremeenal cuenuS etod,,nttcn             3~~~~~~~905>  (73645  3583       3393>      (228>~      (46>       132        294        468         639      1,181       3,308      1,436      2,043      2,488      ;2,3M0      2,340      2,340      2.348   2,340
,.pîîependltcre cci nelrnct/232                                                S          7          7         29         29           2          37                   21         30          1.           2          O         32         20          O          19i         2       39
spuecîlua ceai'                          oO          ~~~        ~~~        ~~~        ~~~        ~~ ~ ~~ ~~74  74  74  36  36  36  36,  36    30         38         34           36         38         36         36         3    36          36         36             36
oui  inarmeaucal locendil ta fleamelul yrinet  31,031>     ~~~~(909>   (644)      14283      (283»       l122>       84        258         424        362      1,110       1,283       0,383     1,527       1,617      2,284      2,304      2,284      2,982  08,905
Nul foncue, cr1    s8l$~~39q4999~1557.3~fO,S, /14  <1,075)  4646)  (683)  (418)  <263)     (71)       151        344        528         680      1,308       1,4754       1,477    1,3119T1,415            ,1513, 5)3           2,540      2,073    07,v33
/~133  Ilan
10 il. ofile   ee fI  Ihilrngnl PS b13  537, hentn
/3Nn,, fîtal.ie levclcud an 07A1 00 E3o         ,t o   n  nrg  lI-uwugho  cf 250 km~  -ad -tnc  c-c un 18CF   2,00b
/4   87 en-  je oue,d, 40%  -e'.7ea.,en  cumin0 nu  8b~nln  ceunen.,C   12  L                      lr,44    (feu louenooouten   co4  O10   22/1.
At 4  0040 14,000/lnen  nEenue
/43V. .o((O..k,
/_ 287. efftake fren PY 1 IrOcoc?: PI 13; 30%. thneeufîc.t
/20 offuak. -cs-d c: COl  ,5»Yoal
/3At 0840 I,0(05/loen'
A. ce Teblle 2 fer oei   n  3; uc,unnc  ene  nîreo  Oec-  îhe Effuntle  tîfe  -1înu  lu Tabla 7
/33 feleagu vuten  f t4he«pec  p,aedaao  -ndue thou prejun   e,,C  -pl-nco            th.Ig  I  25 veYnee,ieed
/01 Vencgo nînlouole nepenue  cf Oneuffn ced  -ete   -    . I lcvne  ly n  .tanne  ef 3.23.  pFE 6Û1 e?o,cteol   fftnîe, 237. cf eceaci eie7 d gn'  Vtln   e  eetu-cn  Oc   laael



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
PASTORAL WELLS - BATHA PREFECTURE
Terms of Reference for a Range and Pastoral Survey
Purpose of the Survey in the Project Area
1.        The purpose of the survey is to promote orderly development of
animal husbandry in the pastoral zone of the Batha prefecture by identi-
fying pastoral groups (PG) and by defining a water supply program within
the regions occupied by those groups. The project area lies essentially
North of the 130 latitude road; it excludes the Ouaddi Rime ranch.
Description of the Survey
2.        The survey will attempt to divide the project area into pastoral
groups, i.e., identify and draw the borders of grazing areas which tradi-
tionally and regularly serve homogenous population groups. Each PG area
should be sufficiently large (with 10 to 15 wells) to sustain its animal
population even in the event of major bush fires.
3.        As a function of the size of the grazing area, the amount and com-
position of the livestock and the participating PG population, the survey
will assess current and medium-term (ten years) water requirements of each
PG and identify the wells to be maintained, repaired or constructed. The
location of any additional wells would be identified with reference to the
existing wells.
4.        'he survey will take into account that each source should normally
supply 6 m /hour water and that the livestock should be watered at least once
a day. The survey will equally take into consideration that the eastern part
of the pastoral zone is situated on crystalline base soil and this necessi-
tates hydrogeological studies prior to well digging. It also necessitates
less frequent stock watering, once every other day. The survey will take
into consideration the wells constructed or repaired under the SATOM contract
(Credit 309-CD). The survey will be based on the inventories of the Bureau
de l'Eau and on the piezometric map of the area. The survey will use the
findings of the ongoing FED livestock survey.
5.        The survey will consider the southbound dry season transhumance
beyond the 13 latitude road (Fitri lake, southern Batha, Guera, Baguirmi
and Salamat) as a constant factor: the possible increases in the number
of water holes will not be designed to reduce the number of transhumants,
but rather to enlarging their stock without obliging them to increase the
number of livestock seasonally moved.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
6.        The survey will consider the wet season northbound transhumance
as a seasonal complement to the proper use of the project area pastures.
7.        The survey will assume that the Goverument will grant exclusive
pasture and water rights to various population groups within their own areas.
In return, the beneficiaries of these rights will undertake to use grazing
areas and water sources sensibly and abide by the recommendations and in-
structions of the government technical services. The PG will be the base
for livestock development in Batha.
Implementation of the Survey
8.        The survey will be carried out by a technical commission which
will reside in the project zone for about one month. The commission will
consist of an agrostologist (chief), assisted by a sociologist and an agri-
cultural economist. The commission will collaborate with the head of the
Ati livestock service and other government services, and traditional local
leaders. The Genie Rural and the Bureau de l'Eau will help the commis-
sion in carrying out its work. The Livestock Department will be respon-
sible for coordination and supervision.
9.        Records accompanied by a simple chart will log the commission's
field work on each PG. A final report will be submitted to the Livestock
Department one month after the return of the commission. The report will
include the list of the PGs and indicate for each PG: area, maximum car-
rying capacity, size and composition of the livestock, number of wells, a
water supply program, and the identity of the beneficiary group.
Note:     The estimated cost of the survey is CFAF 4.5 million, which would
be financed under the Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD).



ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES
1.        The supply of drinking water is quite inadequate in many villages
in Chad. Surface water is not always readily available, particularly at the
end of the dry season, and the shallow wells dug traditionally cannot be
sunk sufficiently deep into the acquifer to guarantee water throughout the
year. The water obtained from both surface supplies and shallow wells is
usually of poor quality and unhealthy for human consumption.
2.        There is no accurate estimate of the number of wells in Chad.  The
Bureau de l'Eau, Genie Rural's hydrogeological section, has attempted to keep
an inventory and lists 348 boreholes, 1,867 lined wells and 3,780 other water
points but detailed survey data by villages for the whole country are not
available. In southwest Chad (East Logone, West Logone and Tandjile prefec-
tures), there are 18 boreholes, 182 lined wells and 217 other water points
listed serving a rural population of over 500,000. In the two Logone prefec-
tures, 79 villages with populations greater than 500, inhabited by about
130,000 people, are listed as having either deficient or no water supplies
(Table 1). 75% of the lined wells are more than 10 years old and none have
been maintained. The older wells are in very poor condition and require
major repairs.
3.        The area is covered by tertiary sediments of the "Continental
terminal" series (miocene). These sands, sandy clays and clays overlying
sandstone are of variable permeability and the acquifers are consequently
rather heterogenous. The average depth to the water table is about 20 m
varying from 5 to 75 m.
4.         SERARHY (Annex 4, para 5) has a base at Sarh which was set up with
UNDP finance in 1974 for well construction and maintenance in the Moyen Chari
prefecture (southeast). This base is supported by a partly equipped subdivi-
sion at Koumra in the same prefecture. In addition FDAR (with US Peace Corps
technical assistance) has a limited program for installing small diameter
(2-1/2 inch) tubewells, equipped with locally assembled handpumps, as village
water points in the same region. The piston pumps are spindle operated and
only suitable for use where water table depths are less than 10 to 15 m.
There is at present no infrastructure for improving village water supplies
in the southwest.
The Subproject
5.        The subproject would provide improved village water supplies in
the prefectures of the two Logones and Tandjile by establishing a division
of SERARHY at Moundou. This base would be equipped to carry out repairs to
the existing lined wells, and would be supplied with a drilling rig for



ANNEX 5
Page 2
installing small tubewells equipped with pedal pumps in villages lacking
permanent water supplies. It would provide one tubewell for each 500
people and would, in addition, carry out routine maintenance on lined
wells and support pump maintenance at village level.
6.        Well repairs would be carried out as for the Batha Wells (Annex
4). Of the 182 lined wells recorded in the project area (Table 1), 146
(80%) would be rehabilitated during the project period. For small tube-
well construction the base would be provided with a drilling rig capable
of either percussion or rotary drilling to construct 6-3/4 inch diameter
boreholes (cased to 4-1/2 inches diameter). The base would also be pro-
vided with equipment for pump testing and installation. About 110 bore-
holes I/ would be installed during the project period out of 145 installa-
tions so far identified as essential (Table 1). The gravel packed tubewells
would be fitted with pedal operated hydraulic acting pumps 2/ discharging
through stainless steel standpipes into open cisterns and 1 tockwatering
troughs. These pumps will discharge between 0.5 and 1.5 m /hr depending
on the depth of the well; for an average water table depth of 20 m, suffi-
cient water could be extracted from a small tubewell to supply 500 people
(25 1/head/day).
7.        Costs (Table 2) would include finance for the following components:
(i)  buildings, offices and stores for SERARHY base (Table 3);
(ii) equipment and vehicles for lined well repairs and small
tubewells (Table 4);
(iii) provision of materials for well repairs and small tubewells
(Table 5);
(iv)   salaries and operating coats (Table 6).
8.        A work program would be prepared by SERARHY each year and submit-
ted to RPF for approval. The subproject would be implemented over a three-
year period. Installation of the base, procurement of vehicles and equip-
ment, and carrying out more detailed inventories and surveys of wells would
occupy the first project year. Well repair and tubewell installation would
take place during the remaining two years.
1/   Drilling rig expected to drill 60 boreholes per year in 7 month
dry season with 10% allowance for failures.
2/   Hydro-pompe Vergnet - minimum maintenance pumps developed in coop-
eration with C.I.E.H. and WHO participation in Upper Volta to permit
water extraction from deep boreholes (20 m to 30 m) without the
necessity for installing diesel or electric pumps.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Organization and Management
9.         Execution of the works would be the responsibility of the Moundou
division of SERARHY operating on force account, under the direction of the
headquarters in N'Djamena. The division would be controlled by a drilling
foreman (hydrogeologist-technician) and staffed as shown in Table 6. It
would be organized in two brigades equipped, respectively, for well repair
and for installing small tubewells. Selection of wells for inclusion in
the annual repair program and of villages to be equipped with tubewells
would be made after consultation with the administrative services in each
prefecture, and with particular regard to Government's primary school re-
building program. Siting of tubewells would be the responsibility of the
hydrogeologist in the Bureau de l'Eau.
10.       A special unit in the small tubewells brigade would be charged
with pump installation and with training responsible villagers in minor
routine maintenance. Adequate spares would be left with each pump to keep
them operating. 10% replacement pumps would be held at the workshops. Gov-
ernment would make arrangements acceptable to IDA, that beneficiaries would
contribute adequately to replacement costs after the three-year investment
phase.
Subproject Costs
11.       Project costs for repairing 146 lined wells and installing 110
small tubewells are summarized below. Costs are based on late 1975 sup-
pliers' quotations, net of import duties and taxes, updated to mid-1976.
Cost                       %
Item                              Local    Foreign    Total            FE
--    CFAF million------
Buildings                            9.0      10.6        19.6         54
Equipment                           27.4    144.1       171.5           84
Materials                           22.5      75.5       98.0           77
Salaries                            39.0      -          39.0          -
Technical Assistance                 8.5     34.1        42.6          80
Operating Costs                     32.0     39.2        71.2          55
Physical Contingencies              16.6     24.0        40.6          59
Total                        155.0    327.5        482.5          68
Justification
12.       The subproject will increase the yield of those 145 open wells
that are to be repaired and will provide 110 new water points by drilling
and equipping tubewells. The latter will provide good quality water to
about 55,000 people who would otherwise have no ready access to water
during the dry season and no access to clean water throughout the year.
Water consumption is expected to increase from about 15 1/head/day to
about 25 1/head/day.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
13.       The unit costs of the works envisaged may be derived from total
subproject costs at Table 2:
Open wells   Tube wells
--   CFAF million
Allocated c:;sts and contingencies                    152.5          202.3
Less:  resid(ial value of allocated equipment          17.6           55.4
Net allocated costs                                   134.9          146.9
Unallocated costs assigned pro rata                    51.8           56.4
Total costs net of residual value                     186.7          202.3
Unit cost (a) per 146 open wells                        1.28
(b) per 110 tube wells                                      1.84
(c) per 50 new open wells /l                 3.37
/1   The capacity of the open well repair unit if it were to be used
exclusively for the digging of new wells.
From the viewpoint of capital cost minimization, therefore, the repair of open
wells is to be preferred to the drilling of new tubewells but new tubewells
are to be preferred to the digging of new open wells. These conclusions do
not change when ..scount is taken of the need to maintain and replace the
manually operatcd pumps on tubewells. On the other hand, if it were possible
to make a sound assessment of the health advantages arising from clean water
produced from tubewells, it is conceivable that new tubewells would even be
preferable to the repair of existing open wells. Since this cannot yet be
argued convincingly_1/ and since, too, the installation of manually-operated
pumps on tubewelLs is a new activity for SERARHY, the subproject is designed
both to repair open wells and to install new tubewells, but no new open wells
would be dug.
1/   Recent work by a WHO specialist resident in N'Djamena has shown that the
incidence of gastro-enteritis among those using open wells rises during
dry season. This he attributes to the lower yield from wells and there-
by the higher relative content of micro-organisms in the dry season.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES
Existing Wells and Village Requirements
if                   East                  West 
Existing wells installed                       LEone                 Logone   Tandji        Total        %   Cumulative
Before 1960                                  1918                             i8         55         30         30
1961-1965                                    19                    20         29         80         44         74
1966                              3~~~~~~~31            -          5         17          9         83
1966-1970                                    1                      4         1          16          9         92
1971-1975                                    12481699
Undated                                       _3                              i          14          8       100
Total                             66                    45         71        182         100
Village reguirements                  East Logone           West  Logone            Tandjile
No. of     No. of    No. of    No. of
villages   wells      villages  wells
required             reguired
Population distribution
more than 3,500                         3        33                      -        No data
3,001-3,500                        1          7           -          -        available
2,501-3,000                        1          6                      -          _
2,001-2,500                        3         15          1          5
1,501-2,000                        8         32          2          8
1,001-1,500                       31         93          7         21           -
501-1,000                        6         12          8         16           -
less than 500                          1          1          7          7
Total                  54        199         25         57
less existing                   66                    45           -
Total requirement              133                    12           -
1/   Includes both village wells and stock watering points away from villages.
21   Assumes l water point required for 500 people.
Source: Bureau de l'Eau questionnaire to prefectures and inventory by SERARHY.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES
Subproject Costs and Schedtle of Expenditures
Year 1       Year 2    Year 3    Total       % FE      Residual
Value
--CFAF million---------------                          CFAF million
1. Buildings /1
Offices, stores, etc.                  19.6          _          _         19.6       5          1S.7
2. Equipment /2
Offices and workshops                   5.0          _          _          5.0       85          -
Well repairs                           43.9          -          -         43.9       80         17.6
Small tubewells                        77.5          7.3        7.3       92.1       85         55.4
Vehicles                               30.5          -          -         30.5       85          3.8
Subtotal - Equipment              156.9          7.3        7.3     171.5       __         7___
3. Materials /3
Well repairs                            _           20.9       20.9       41.8       74
Small tubewells                         -           28.1       28.1       56.2       79
Subtotal - Materials                -           ____       49.0       98.0       77
4. Staff Salaries  /4
Well repairs                            -           13.5       13.5       27.0       -
Small tubewells                         -            6.o        6.o       12.0       -
Subtotal - Salaries                 _           19.5      19-5        39.0      -
5. Technical Assistance                       14.2         14.2       14.2       42.6       80
6. 0peration of Vehicles and Equipment /4
Well repairs equipment                  -           12.8       12.8       25.6       55
Small tubewell equipment                -           13.8      13.8       27.6       55
Vehicles                                3.6          7.2        7.2      18.0        55
Subtotal-operation                  3.6         33.8      33.8       71.2       55
Total without contingencies    194.3          123.8      123.8      441.9       69
Physical Contingencies /5           5.6         17.5      17.5       40.6       59
TOTAL                     199.9        141.3      141.3      482.5       68
/1  Details Table 3.  Building life 15 years
/2  Details Table 4.  Well repairs equipment life 5 years
Small tubewells equipment life 7 years, no residual value for pumps
Vehicle life 120,000 Km.
/3  Details Table 5.
_  Details Table 6.                                                                                                    r u
/5  15% on all items except equipment



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES
Buildings, Offices and Stores
Cost CFAF   %
Item                                          Quantity    Unit    Rate CFAF   million    FE
Workshop and stores                                         300        m2         35,000    10.50      45
Fuel and lubricant store                                     60        m2        35,000      2.10      45
Watchman's house                                             40        m2         35,000     1.4o      45
Electricity connection                                        1        No.       L. sum      2.75      70
38 m tubewell with pump and reticulation                      1        No.       L. sum      1.80     75
Security fence                                            1,310        m             800     1.05      70
Subtotal                                                                         19.60     54
Office and workshop equipment                                                                5.00      85
Total                                                                            24.60     60
CD zU



CHUD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
VILLAGE WATER, SUPPLIES
Equipment and Vehicles for Well Repairs
Quantity                 Unit                   Rate                   r7.t                    7 FE
CFAF                   CFAF
'000                million
/1
Equipment for well repairs
Sheerlegs, winch and cable                                    3                      No.                     250                  0.75                       85
Compressor                                                    1                      No.                  3,000                    3.00                      85
Bailer l                                                                             No.                     200                   0.20                      85
Derrick                                                       5                      No.                   3,700                  18.50                      85
Motor                                                         5                      No.                     600                   3.00                      85
Clamishell grab                                               5                      No.                  1,700                   8.50                       85
Water tank                                                    1                      No.                     650                  0.65                       55
Flexible hose                                               250                      ni                        1.5                0.38                       85
Prefabricated well lining moulds                              3                      No.                   1,000                  3.00                       55
Well lini-ng shutters                                        10                      ni                      280                   2.80                      55
Well head shutters                                            1                      No.                     300                   0.30                      55
Towed bowsers                                                 2                      No.                     400                  0.80                       85
200 liter  self-tippi-ng  bucket                              3                      NO.                     110                  0.33                       85
50 liter  self-tipping bucket                                10                      No.                      50                  0.50                       85
Well. sinking tools                                           6                      Sets                    150                   0.90                      85
Tool boxes                                                    2                      NO.                     100                   0.20                      85
Tools                                                         2                      Sets                     50                   0.10                      8
Total                                                                                                            43.91                      80
/2
Equipment for tubewell installation
Drilling rig truck mounted                                    1                      No.                 31,750                   31.75                      85
Trailer mounted compressor                                    1                      No.                  9,750                    9.75
Drilling equipment                                            1                      Set                    L. sums                9.80                      8
Service truck /3                                              1                      No.                  8,500                    8.50                      85
Water bowser with hydraulic crane                             1                      No.                 10 ,000                  10.00                      85
Spares                                                        1                      Set                   L. sum                  7.70                      85
Pumps supplied to site/4                                    132                      No.                     110                  14.52                      85
Total                                                                                                           -22.02                     85
Vehicles
3/4 ton pickups                                               4                      No.                  2,500                   10.00                     85
6  ton trucks                                                 2                      No.                  6,000                   12.00                     ô5
10 ton trucks                                                 1                      No.                  8,500                   8.50                      85                                  .
85                               a
Total                                                                                                            30.50                     85
/1   SERARHY equipment list
/2   Tubewell brigade as in Upper Volta drought relief project
/3   Truck mounted 30 KW diesel generator and 30 1/sec submersible pump
/4   55 pumps supplied and installed annually.  20% spares held in stock, sufficient for 5 years' replacements



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES
Material Requirements
Quantity     Unit       Rate        Cost   % FE
CFAF       CFAF
Well repairs /1                                                thousand    million
Cement                                   185       T          55.0      10.175    80
Sand                                     238       m3          3.0       0.714    55
Stone                                    475       m3          6.o       2.850    55
Water (transport only)                   140       m3          1.5        0.210    55
Steel reinforcement                       23        T        220.0        5.060    80
Stirrups                               1,4oo       Ng.         o.6       o.84o    80
Gravel filters                            63       m           6.o       o.378    55
Miscellaneous                                      L. sum   7oo          0.700    60
Total  (one year)                                           20.927    74
Small tubewells
_     _l
4/4 II diameter casing                   20        m           6.2       0.124    85
41/4   diameter well screen              18        m           7.5       0.135    85
Gravel pack                               0.5      m3          6.o       0.003    55
Cement                                    2.6      T          55.0       0.143    80                           >
Sand                                      4.0 °      3         3.0       0.012    55
Stone                                     8.0      m           6.o       o.o48    55
Water (transport only)                    2.4      m3          1.5        0.004    55                        fi>
Subtotal (one tubewell)                                      o.469    79
/2
Total  60 tubewells                                         28.140    79
/l Material estimated for repairing 73 wells per year
/2 Tubewell construction estimated at 60 per year



C3AD
RURAI, PROJECTS FUND
VILLAOE WATBR SU?9IJES
Salaries and Operating Costs
Personnel           Monthly             Annual            Annual
recuired            galaDL               Salar,           Total
I.     Salar tts                                                                                      CFAF               --     - CFAF---------
1.1    Well RePair   Brigade                                                                        thousemds                   million
Personnel and salaries
details Annex 4 Table  1                                                                                                       13. 459
1.2    small Tubewells Brita4e
DrillingjUnit
Drill rig operator                                                    1                36.0              0.432             0.432
Assistant driller                                                     1                20.0              0.240             0.240
Drivers                                                               4                25.0              0.300             1.200
Mechanic                                                              1                16.0               0.192            0.192
Welder assistants                                                     2                13.0               0.156            0.312
Laborers                                                              4                 7.5              0.067             0.270
Subtotsl                                                                                                           2.646
Pu_ping Test Unit
Chargehand                                                            1                16.0              0.192             0.152
Mechanic                                                              1                13.0               0.156            0,156
Drivers                                                               1                25.0               0.300            0.300
Laborersl/                                                            3                 7.5              0.067             0.202
Subtotal
PumtIstallationL Unt   (2)
Chargehand/driver                                                     1                25.0              0.300             0.300
Mechanic                                                              1                13.0               0.156            0.156
Mason                                                                 I                10.0               0.090            0.090
L.aborers I/                                                          3                 7.5              0.067             0.202
Subtotal                                                                                                          O.748
Annual salary ssall tubewell brigade                                                                           4.992
Field allowance 20%                                                                                            0.998
rot,', annual salary sisall tubewell brigadi                                                                       5.990
2.    Technical Assistance                                                          1                                  14.175           14.175
3.    Operating ostsVehicles andE qipsent                                        Annual              Urdit              Rate            Annual
Utilization_                                               Cost
CPAF            CFAF
,sillioni
3.1   Well rePairs brigade       2/
Operating costs as detailed
in Annex 4 Table 2                                                                                                        12.252
3.2   Small tubewells brigade
Drill rig including compressor                                      180               days               30,000            5.40e
Service truck (pumping tests)                                       180               ddas              20,000             3.609
Va.er bowser                                                    30,000                Km                    150            4.500
Miscellaneous                                                                                            L. sum            0.300
Subtotal
13.800
3.3   3/4 ton pickups                   4 No.                                  30,000                K.                    tO            7.200
Total ODerating Vehicles a-d Equipment                                                                                            33750
L/ 9 months only,
2/ Operstiog costs of tr-ck. are included.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
FEEDER ROAD IMPROVEMENT
General
1.        The Chadian road network consists of 4,600 km of primary roads
(of which only 240 km are paved), 2,600 km of secondary roads and about
25,000 km of unclassified feeder roads. The Public Works Department (PWD)
is responsible for maintenance of all classified roads but, in effect, only
the primary roads are regularly maintained. The unclassified feeder roads
are in very poor condition with correspondingly high transport costs and
many are impassable for much of the year. In some cases, poorly maintained
structures have fallen into disrepair and otherwise reasonable tracks are
unusable.
2.        The Second Highway Project (Credit 490-CD) is a five-year program
primarily aimed at the improvement of about 800 km of feeder roads in the
Cotton Zone sufficient to accommodate 12-ton cotton trucks with a maximum
speed of 50 km/hour. Roads which in 1973/74 carried between 2,000 and
9,000 tons of traffic annually were included in this program. Seed cot-
ton production has subsequently increased by about 60% from 114,000 tons
in 1973/74 to 180,000 tons in 1975/76. The forecast of seed cotton pro-
duction for 1975/76 used as the basis for the economic evaluation of the
Second Highway Project was 120,000 tons.
3.        The feeder road improvements under the Second Highway Project
are being executed by Cotontchad for the PWD under a management contract.
The PWD loans equipment to Cotontchad and checks that it is properly used
and maintained. Cotontchad provides the personnel for the work teams, main-
tenance and on-site supervision, furnishes all other inputs required for
operations and maintenance and is reimbursed by PWD according to a daily
operating cost schedule established by the PWD. An identical procedure
will be followed in the RPF subproject.
The Subproject
4.        The subproject would carry out minor works on about 1,200 km of
feeder roads over a period of three years. The works involve reconstruc-
tion of about 80 bridges, culverts and fords and other structures which
require maintenance or have fallen into disrepair. In addition, a road
grading unit would be used for upgrading about 885 km within which selec-
tive regravelling would be carried out on about 60 km. This unit would
be required for one working season (November 1976 - June 1977). An in-
ventory of minor works, repairs and upgrading is at Table 1. The inven-
tory has been prepared from the qualitative judgment of Cotontchad's 22
factory managers regarding works that could usefully be undertaken as a
complement to the road improvements programmed under the Second Highway
Project.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        Repairs to structures would be carried out manually by two work
teams provided with transport and materials, and equipped with small tools
and concrete mixers. Details of the equipment are at Table 2 and the per-
sonnel at Table 3. The equipment would be procured at the start of Year
1. The road surfacing team would be equipped with a grader, a loader,
dump trucks, a water bowser and, where necessary, a compactor (details
at Table 2) and would complete its work during the first year of the
project. All of this equipment is presently available at the PWD depot
at Moundou but it is not presently being used and will not be used at
least until the Third Highway Project becomes operational in 1977/78.
Organization and Management
6.        The project would be executed with finance provided by the RPF
to the PWD which would reimburse Cotontchad under an extension of the ex-
isting management contract. Although details are to be negotiated between
PWD and Cotontchad, agreement has been obtained on this principle by the
parties concerned. At the start of each season, the two parties would agree
on a detailed program of works to be executed during that season and would
submit it to RPF for approval. The works would be directed by the Cotontchad
Chief Road Supervisor assisted by two supervisors seconded by PWD. In those
cases where the plant to be made available by PWD to Cotontchad requires
initial repairs, the cost of those repairs would be deducted from the PWD
daily operating cost schedule.
7.        Works would be carried out on force account using locally re-
cruited labor. Vehicles and equipment purchased under the subproject for
carrying out the works would be returned on completion to PWD for rede-
ploynent. The sub-project would not require additional technical assis-
tance.
Subproject Costs
8.        Estimated subproject costs are detailed in Table 4 and summa-
rized below. The costs of plant, vehicles and equipment to be purchased
are at mid-1976 net-of-tax prices, as estimated by local representatives
of the manufacturers. Operating costs are based on actual 1975 PWD daily
operating cost schedules updated to 1976. The costs include physical con-
tingencies.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
CFAF million
Local    Foreign      Total
Purchase of vehicles and equipment          5.4      30.4        35.8
Purchase of materials                      28.5       66.5       95.0
Operating costs                            40.7       49.8       90.5
Labor                                      36.8        -         36.8
Supervision and administration             11.3       -          11.3
Physical contingencies                     15.0       14.3       29.3
Total                               137.7       161.0      298.7
Of this CFAF 224.9 million would be for repairs to structures, CFAF 43.3
million for road resurfacing and CFAF 30.5 million for supervision. The
estimated schedule of expenditure is:
CFAF Million
Year 1                       151.7
Year 2                        73.5
Year 3                        73.5
Total              298.7
Justification
9.        Although no recent data are available on traffic flows in the sub-
project area, the works may be classified by inference from the data avail-
able at appraisal of the Second Highway Project. That project included 800
km of roads with an average total tonnage in 1974 of 3,500 tons/year, of
which the average tonnage of seed cotton was 2,200 tons/year. Since then,
cotton output has increased by 60% but the area under cotton has increased
by less than 10%; for any given road, annual seed cotton tonnage will have
increased by almost 60% between 1974 and 1976. Even assuming no increase in
non-cotton traffic in this period, the implied increase in total traffic on
any given road is 37.5%. For purposes of analysis, the inventory at Table 1
may be classified as follows:
Works                     Km       Present       Total Annual Tonnages /1
Type     Envisaged                  Length  Vehicle Use        1973/74      1975/76
A    Resurfacing only               539   12-ton trucks        2,000       2,800
B    Resurfacing and structures   346   light trucks           1,800       2,500
C    Structures only                300   none                 1,600       2,200
/1   Estimates of orders of magnitude, on the assumption that the roads
proposed for inclusion in this subproject were just below the threshold
for inclusion in the Second Highway Project. For types B and C, the
tonnages are those that would have been carried if the structures had
permitted passage of 12-ton trucks.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
For a 12-ton truck, unit costs were estimated at late 1974 net-of-tax prices
at 261 francs/km on bad feeder roads and 162 francs/km on improved feeder
roads. With a 20% cost increase to mid-1976 prices, the unit saving in
transport costs will be 10 francs/ton/km each way.
10.       The resurfacing of the 539 km of Type A roads includes selective
regravelling on about 40 km of sandy and other difficult stretches and grading
on about 230 km. Benefits are valued at 25% of the unit saving arising from
the complete upgrading of a 'bad' to an 'improved' feeder road. The 346 km of
Type B roads include 18 stretches of road to be improved, involving selective
regraveling on about 20 km and grading on about 150 km. Since Cotontchad's
standardization of its truck fleet with 12-ton vehicles, no cotton trucks
presently use Type B roads. Their improvement will permit passage of Cotont-
chad vehicles that are presently making longer journeys on bad feeder roads.
Benefits would include an average saving per stretch of road to be improved
of 10 km valued at 10 francs/ton-km each way and the unit cost saving of 10
francs/ton-km each way on the improved 346 km. For Type C roads, it is
assumed that the 300 km may be broken down into 15 stretches to be improved
which will each save 10 km on average compared to present routes on bad feeder
roads. Benefits are as per Type B. For each road-type, it is assumed that
one-half of the benefits arising from works undertaken in a given year are
obtained in that year.
11.       For purposes of analysis, the pessimistic assumption is made
that the improved roads will not be maintained after project completion;
benefits will remain constant for three years and then fall in linear steps
to zero in year eight. To this series of benefits a traffic growth rate of
2.5%/year has been added. The foreign exchange component of benefits and
costs has been increased by a factor of 1.25. Since all works will be under-
taken during the dry season, and different laborers will be engaged at differ-
ent structures' work sites, all daily-paid labor is valued at zero. Rates of
return are as follows, with details at Table 5:
Total Project Cost       internal
Financial   Economic       Economic
(CFAF million)         Return
A.  Resurfacing only                     28.9          40.4          13%
B.  Resurfacing and structures          151.8         165.4          20%
C.  Structures only                     118.0         123.8          21%
Aggregate                    298.7         329.6          19%
12.       About 75% of the quantified benefits of the subproject will accrue
to Cotontchad, a public autonomous agency, financed by Government, Chadian
banks and private foreign capital. The ten-year convention signed in 1971
between Government and Cotontchad stipulates that 80% of profits are to be
transferred to the Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton (CSPC); these
benefits will eventually accrue to cotton farmers either in the form of
higher guaranteed prices or as contributions to the cotton development
program. Moreover, part of the remaining 20% of Cotontchad's profits will
be used for reinvestment.



IA51E 6
C M A D
RURAI PlOECT PFUN
MERLR ROAD D11 VD01 
Road fsvrnton
-----'i-n-sa--------------------                ---  ----- ----------------------------a-----------                   Ra" dababilitatious-----------------
C nton                s      l"crfetiSc                          Loa±tRc.            latiatd               Leation                   Lgth rosd lavelvd
t_                                                   (eCm)
raquirad far
wrks
(d"Ts
Caoko                Bridge repirs                          KBdjaffa                      15
Lme eBiosiken                                                                                                                )
Gonuigmudeu                                                                                            Mbria - B_bdi - Fa)                     350
Brie                                                                                                  ODjepoyto)
Ca gai
Lere                Reconatruetion of ford.                 Barli n                                    Laupto - Guelo                           32
4 bridgea to reconstruct-              Lare               -        164            Dona - GCou..                            14
Binder               Reconstruction of ford.                aI Cora
D-oune              Caoeusay refilling_                     Csya                         17            Gapy  - B1ae                             10
Repaira to bridge approachea.          Karyal               )y- Tâl
Reras               Bridge reuunstrution.                   Deaa                    `-T
Tikal                Reconstruction of ford.       -        Mngra        , 
"l "C"Gourmaloj ,    120 -y
BSoul Xndo
Matnraou
eallora              Bridge  aconatruotion                  Patalôa              3
Tours                                                                                                  Dina - Masse                          ,
Becuco              Ruad refilliug
Panda ngue          Rafilliiog bridge approaches.           Kodosuge 
Bridge reconstruction.                 Makdta               )       120
"  "                    Dotongou             )
Mentlo                                                      Dag Bah
M sace               Repairs to 2 bridges.
Le                  Repairs to bridge approachea.           Mditikda.
Repaira co bridge.                     Goula
Repairs to bridge  nd rafilling *      Tandjile             )        75
Repaira and road rafilling .           Relo
Causceay rafillin  .                  Relo                 )
Xoro                                                                                                   Koro - Guidri                            20
Dor.on                                                                                                 Dor.cu - Guidri                         40
Doba                Repairs to causeray .                   Doba - Koutotou              20
"l  "1   I'                         Nbore
Bire Manda           Bridge reconstruction and refilling,                                              Roed to Dj.nban                           1
car                  Road refilling.                        Sar - Moussen        ;      105
Benoye                                                                                                 Beoye - Talati                           6
gea  ta BaSa   _~n                       S
no  ca   lsa  - ta                       à4
w- -w-_ -               -ÊSI--                          -
ilteo                Prrry *pprabe, c                         g. - esaa -   erry         22-
Betobuo                                                                                                Bourau - Fada                            1
Bengoro              Bridge app:uach repairs                Bengoro                      10
K.skobo             Bridge reconstruction                   Yange                                      Biobe.eebo                              36
Singak              2 bridges to reconatruct                Bale and Sinagko
Raie                Cauocuuy nefillRn.                      Dinjikoeo            )      159            Iotou - Cuera                           18
Arako               Bridge reconstruction'                  Ala ko 
Marak.               400s cau«aey re.onstruction.           ?(arakoss
Ryabe                Bridge reconstruction .                Barb Beiba
Xeu.re              Causeueay refilling.                    Mourouboulaya                              Mourou boul a                            4
Bridge reconstruction.                 Kenkcgi                                    Dobo - Matknya                          40
Causery refilling                      llovabang            3        76           Toki - £adoniti -  aiLa                 26
Il   l                        begele                                                            . 
Bedieudu            Bridge repair.                          golo1
"encedeyoh
"   "                      ~~~~~~~~~~B..d.tiib.           30
Kokabri              3
Peni               s Bridge reconetructrion.                Toure
"   "                      ~~~~     ~~Bepan      S
Bousoce             Bridge repaire and approach refilling.RouYoco
Pipe culvert repairs.                   oro
"-.osco - Taoic      )
Gndijoubou          )
Guidiholo            3
Mouscwfoyo          Reconstruction of 2 causeways.          Mousattoyo
Ferry approech reconstruction.             Il
Pipe culvert repairs.                  Moussatoyo - Rourena)        129
Reconatruction of ceuseay.             Maibi' - Kouogo    )
Be1iciba                                                    M-uda - Beuli        )                     BaliReba - Ibc                            7
Maibease' - Kira Dornoyon                10
Bmsuoli - Dni Bond-                      10
Niel1              Receostruction of causewy.              Peroon Nieli        )                     Perosm - Pou la la                -       5
)                    PlIqus' - Piang-                          28
Djoli              WIShed out causewey                      Cayan                )                     GayaD - SBnguele                          4
3 ceusercys to be recenetructed.         "                  )
Xok-se                                                                                                 XeoBaga - M'bono - NielLa                21
Bonda                                                                                                 Bonda - Sako Bonda                        18
Beineo.er           Repeins te bridge -                     Kiones. - Medane    )                     Mangek o - Djeaje                          2
Rafilling bridge *pproache-s           Buron
Refilling culvert apprbachea .         Beinr - T-pol   )
-      aeri - Benoye       3         31
Djoye - Medana       3
Rofilling bridge approaches.           Tapel - Maikounda   )                      Tapol - Kage                             17
Bridge and approach repair.            Tapol - Donit        )                     Made - Baisse                            38
Refilling 3 bridge epproeches .        Ceo - Dakandjile'                          G -  Cao - Dakandjile'                   40
TOTAS                     1095  days                                            r_
Source - Cctontchad factory managers' inventory



CHAD                                                   ANNEX 6
RURAL PROJECT FUND                                            Table 2
FEEDER ROAD IMPROVEMUNT
Plant, Vehicles and Equipment - Purchase and Operating Costs
Item                        No.    Purchase       Total
price      Cost
---CFAF million---
Vehicles and eÊquipmeit
4-w enl drive pickup /1             4          2.50       10.00
4 m  durap truxck                   2          6.60       13.20
Trailed water bowser 4000 1         2          1.00        2.00
Concrete mixer ( 350 1)             2          0.90        1.3
Portable pump  ( 5 hp)              3          0.55        1.65
Spare3 (15%7)                       -                      495
Subtotal                                  33.60
Smalt tools (sets) /2               2          0.80        1.60
Total Purchase Costs                                      35.20
Plant  n_ua_. OQeratig Costs
Plant Use per   Total Annual Operating cost            Annual
o        Unit       Life    itemuse                  or hire rate/3         Cost
CFAI'       CFAF mi1lion
4heldrive pickup /                        Km       120 ,000 30 ,000        120,000          60              7.20
4m  duirnp truck                    2         daym        1,250      180            360     25,000               9.00
Trailed water bowser 4000 1         2                    1,2550      180            360      1,000               0.36
Concrete nixer                      2         hours      5,000       700         1,400         350               0.49
épares~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~hor                      5 , 70 -0'              1,200         280              0.34
Potbepump                      3                     3 ,000     4oo
Spares (157.0                                                                                                   17.3
Subtotal                                                                                         17.39
SmEll1 tools                                                        207. annmal replacement                     0.32
Plant provided by P.W.D.
Road grader                         1         days           180                    180     40,500               7.29
Loider (cet 941)                    1          "'            180                    180     28,300              5.09
4m  dump truck                      3          "             180                    540     25,000              13.50
Water bowser 9000 1                 1          "              90                    180     25,000               4.50
Compactor                           1          "              90                     90      4,400               7.92
Subtotal                                                                                        38.30
Tntal Op+rst,g Cnqtq                                                                            56.01
/1  Two vehicles to be allocated to "Supervision and Administration".
/2  Each set comprises: 20 thovels, 20 picks, 100 wheel barrows, 5 crow-bars, 1 builders level, 4 sledge hammers,
4 sets mason tools plus 20% replacements.
/3  Estimated operating cost for four-wheel drive Pick-ups; PWD daily hire rate for the other items,
expressed as an hourly rate for the concrete mixer and portable pump.



C H à D
RURAL PROJECT FUND
FEEDER RDAD IHPROVEMENT
WaRes and Salaries
Period           Annual         Annual
worked           Salary           Total
Function                       No            Unit         Salarv           annually
CFAF                            ------FF million------------------
Structures team (2 teams)
Foreman                                     1             month         65000           12 months         0.780           0.780
Charge hands                               2                            41000                            0.492            0.984
Driver                                     1                            32500                             0.390           0.390
Mixer operator                              1              day             975           180 days         0.176           0.176
Sxilled labourers                          6                "              730                            0.131           0.786
Laborers                                  30                              420                             0.076           2.280
Subtotal                                                                                       5.396           10.792
Road surfacing team
Charge hand                                1              month         41000           12 months        0.492            0.492
Plant operators                            3                            36000                            0.432            1.296
Drivers                                    3                            32500                             0.390           1.170
Skilled laborers                           5              day             730           180 days         0.131            0.655
Laborers                                  10                              420                            0.076            0.760
Subtotal                                                                                       4.373           4.37 3
Supervision and administration
Road supervisors                           2              month        lwOOOO           12 months         1.200           2.400
secretary/bobkeeper                        1                            50000                             0.600           0.600
Drivers                                    2                "           32500                            0.390            0.780
Subtotal                                                                                       3.780           3.780



C H A D
RURAL PROJECT FUND
FEEDER ROAD IMPRDVEMENT
e,project Costs aed Schtduje of Expenditure
Item
Year 1          Year 2            Year 3        Total            % FE            Residual
value
-----------------------------------         MILLIONS ----------------------------------
Structures teamî
Purchase of vehicles and equipment               33.60             _                 _           33-60               85            18.24
Operating costs, vehicles and equipment          17.39           17.39             17.39         52.17               S5              -
Purchase of small tools                           1.60             -                 -            1.60               '5-
Replacement of small tools                         -              0.32              0.32          0.64               85              -
Persomal(wages and salaries)                     10.79           10.79             10.79         32.37                -              -
Materials /L                                     3i.66           31.67             31.57         95.00               70              -
Subtotal         9 5.04           60.17             60.10        215.38              58               -
P,W.IY Road plant unit
Plant operating costs                            38.30             -                 -           38.30               55              -
Personnel                                         4.37             _                              4.37                -              -
Subtotal          42.67             -                 -           42.67              49               -
Supervision and Administration                         3.78            3.78              3.78         11.34                -              -
Total without contingencies               1-41.49          63.95              63.95        249.39              54             18.24
Physical contingencies /2                  10.20            9.54              9.34         29428               49               -
'151.69          73.49              73.49        298.17              54             18.24
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =
/1           Cotontchad estimate based on inventory (Table 1),                                                                  X
/2  Physical contingencies  15% of all items other than purchEs, costs of tools, vehicles and equipment,
and plant operating 2osts of PWD road unit.



CR1AD
RURAL PROJECT FUND
FEEDER ROAD IMPROVEf1ENT
Econozic Benefits; and Costs
(CFAF million)
Type A Roads                       Type b Roads                           Type C Roads                              Aggregate
Year        Resurfacing only                Resurtacing and Structures                  Structures only
1/                /                                                      il
COSJ_    Benefits   Total          Costs  '  Benefits   Total             Cosfi      Benefits  Total            Costs     Benefits    Total
1         40.4       4.4    -36.e             85.7      7.9      -'77.8             53.1       5.9      _47.2            179.2      18.2       -161.O
2           -        9.0       9.0            39.9     24.4       ,15.r             35.3      18.2      -17.1             75.2      51.6       - 23.6
3           -        9,3        9.3           39.9  3/h41,7         1,e             35.33/   31.0       - 4.3             75.2      82.0           6.8
-       9.5        9.5          -11.7  - 51.3         63. C'          -10..4      38.1      48.5           - 22.1      98,9         121.0
5           -       10.0      10.0              -      48,2        48.,               -       35.8       35.8               -       94.0          94.0
65          -        7.8       7.8              -      4o.4        40o.               -       29.9       29.9               -       78.1          78.1
7           -        5,2       5.2              -      27.5        27.5               -       20.3   4  20.3                -       53.0          53.0
8           -        2.8       7.8              -      13.3   4/ 13.3                 -       10.4   -  10.4                -       26.5          26.5
Total     40.4      58, 0     17.6           153.8    254,7       100.9            113.3      189.6      76.3            307.5    502 .3        194.8
IER 13.15                          IER 20%                              IER  21.4%                              IER 19.1 %
NOTES: 1/    Supervision costs in Year 1 are allocated between resurfacing and structures work pro rata with their respective costs.  Total
resurfacing costs are allocated between Type A and Type B roads pro rata with the respective distances to be resurfaced. Total
structures costs, including all supervision costs in Years 2 and 3, are allocated between Type B and Type C roads pro rata with the
respective days worked.
2/     The PWD operating cost schedule for heavy equipment excludes amortization.  Depreciation at 20% of 1976 capital cost, of which
the foreign exchange component is valued at 1.25, is included above in Year 1 (CFAF 14.8 million) pro-rated between Type A and Type
B roads by the respective distances to be resurfaced.
3/    The residual value of the vehicles and equipment required for the structures teams is shown as a negative cost in Year 4 pro-
rated between Type B and Type C roads by the respective days worket>
4/  ! Benefits arise in Year 8 from those works undertaken in PY 2. Works undertaken in PY 3 also give rise to benefits in Year 9
but these have been ignored.



ANEN    i
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
ANIMAL FEED PRODUCTION AND MARKETING OF POULTRY PRODUCTS
THE CMPA
1.        The Livestock Production Improvement Center (Centre de Modernisa-
tion des Productions Animales -- CMPA) was established as a non-profit-mak-
ing semi-autonomous public agency in 1966. Its statute is presently being
revised and the draft decree provides that, under the technical supervision
of the Livestock Department, the CMPA's principal functions will be:
(a)  to operate the animal feed, milk and poultry product pro-
cessing plants located at Farcha (a suburb of N'Djamena),
as well as retail outlets in the capital;
(b)  to supervise the regional centers for animal production
(mainly day-old chicks) at Sarh, Moundou and Ati;
(c)  to test new production and marketing techniques; and,
(d)  to provide extension services.
The draft decree is, in effect, a formal statement of CMPA's present activi-
ties. The new CMPA board will be chaired by the Directeur General of the
Ministry of Agricultural and Pastoral Development and would consist of four
senior staff from that ministry and the Ministry of Finance. The CMPA Manager
would be appointed by the Ministerial Council.
2.        CMPA keeps business accounts with full allowance for deprecia-
tion, is self-financing, and receives no government subsidy other than the
secondment of a few technicians from the Livestock Department and one tech-
nical advisor financed by FAC. Although the balance sheet for 1974 lias not
yet been finalized, operating accounts from the last two years show that
CMPA is a well-managed organization and that a profit of about CFAF 19 mil-
lion was made on its feed plant and poultry marketing operation in 1974, on
sales of CFAF 130 million. The new draft decree re-affirms that any profit
realized by CMPA is to be used for increasing working capital, for acquiring
capital assets or for financing any activities that relate to its four prin-
cipal functions.
3.        CMPA is the only livestock feed producer in the country and in 1974
was already producing beyond its one-shift capacity. In that year, calf feed
sales were over 1,300 tons, with distribution partially financed by a FED sub-
sidy. Poultry feed sales were 350 tons in 1974 and nearly 500 tons in 1975,
with all sales effected at the full-cost price, i.e. a weighted average



ANNEX 7
Page 2
of CFAF 60/kg (US$0.26). This is high compared to the price of sorghum (CFAF
30/kg) but the other ingredients are more costly; unsatisfactory processing
plant is also responsible for high unit costs. Mineral licks were produced on
an experimental basis in 1974 (2 tons) and 1975 (40 tons) but, lacking appro-
priate equipment, unit costs were high, the produet was fragile and required
costly packaging.
4.        CMPA provides an effective package of extension, input supply
and marketing services to over 700 milk producers and over 100 egg and
poultry producers around N'Djamena. Milk, eggs and poultry are col-
lected from producers in light trucks, processed in hygienic condi-
tions and sold to the high price market in the capital at, or close
to, import parity prices. Because of the concentration on the high
price market, demand declines sharply in the vacation months of July
and August and, in the absence of storage facilities, the egg operation
has to be limited to demand in those months. Recent sales and estimated
1976 sales are as follows:
Sales
Items                Unit                         1974             1976
Fresh milk              1                         170,000           205,000
Yoghurt                 cartons                   520,000           660,000
Cream                   1                           5,800             6,500
Cheese                 Kg                           7,000             9,000
Eggs                   million                        0.8 /1             1.2
Dressed chickens        Kg                         22,000 /1         25,000
/1   1975 - Il months.
The Subproject
5.        The subproject would provide buildings and equipment to the CMPA
to increase the capacity of the animal feed plant from 1,500 to 3,000 tons/
year, to permit production of pelleted feedstuffs, and to permit relatively
large-scale production of mineral licks. Processing facilities for eggs and
poultry would be improved both in capacity and in quality. The subproject
would finance:
for the feed plant:  -   extension of 250 m  to the existing
building
-   installation of a grinder/mixer plant
for bones, shells and other hard materials
-   installation of a pelleting machine
-   installation of a mineral lick press-
ing machine
-   improved water supply and storage



ANNEX 7
Page 3
for egg and poultry  -   construction of a slaughter and store
processing:              house
-   installation of a cold store of 30 m3
capacity.
Details of these components are at Table 1. No investments in the milk pro-
cessing plant are envisaged since the existing plant was recently constructed
and is .not yet fully utilized.
6.        The RPF would make a grant to the CMPA of 100% of the net-of-tax
cost of the buildings and equipment and CMPA would provide all working capi-
tal from its accumulated reserves. Total project cost net-of-taxes and in-
cluding 10% physical contingency is CFAF 82.3 million (US$370,000) at 1976
prices of which CFAF 67.1 million is for the animal feed plant and CFAF 15.2
million for the egg and poultry processing facilities.
Justification
7.        The future expansion of animal feed production will require new
plant.  Increased demand for animal feed will arise from egg and poultry
producers (see para 9), from cattle owners who are becoming increasingly
aware of the benefits of calf feed, and from a forthcoming extension pro-
gram, largely financed by Swiss Aid, involving the subsidized sale of
mineral licks, where the subsidy level varies by region. Future foreign
assistance programs in the livestock sector will also generate demand for
animal feeds. Although no market survey for animal feeds has been under-
taken, the experienced and energetic management of CMPA considers that
demand will double in the next five years; in absolute terms, this repre-
sents only 1,500 tons/year.
8.        Each of the three main subcomponents of the animal feed plant
will provide not only increased capacity but also reduced unit costs. The
grinder/ mixer plant for bones, shells and other hard materials will involve
savings in fuel of the order of CFAF 20,000/ton of output. Production is
presently about 100 ton/year and will expand to 250 tons/year simply to supply
the mineral lick program. Annual savings will then be CFAF 5 million arising
from an initial investment of CFAF 12.5 million. The pelleting machine will
improve the efficiency of feed and will avoid the losses involved in the use
of powdered feed; the mission estimates that in local conditions there will be
a saving of 15% in volume of equivalent powdered product. Even at 1975
poultry feed sales levels, the aggregate saving would be CFAF 4.5 million/year
arising from an initial investment of CFAF 19 million. The mineral lick
pressing machine will entail savings in packaging and in unit production costs
of CFAF 20,000/ ton. The forthcoming mineral lick extension program provides
for distribution of 700 tons over three years, or an aggregate saving of CFAF
14 million arising from an initial investment of the same order.  In sum, the
three major pieces of equipment to be provided to the animal feed plant
each have a payback period of 3-4 years without taking account of any increase
in feed production.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
9.        The scale of CMPA's year-round egg operation is determined by
sales in the summer months of 75,000 eggs/month. Provision of cold stor-
age capacity for the decline in demand in the two summer months would per-
mit year-round throughput of 125,000 eggs/month. In turn, this would per-
mit an immediate increase in the number of egg producers serviced by CMPA
from 80 to 120. Demand for layers' feed would increase from 250 to 420
tons/year. At the same time, the cold store would ease problems of day-
to-day fluctuations in demand and supply of dressed chickens during the
rest of the year.
10.       The above discussion is limited to present and immediately fore-
seeable markets and to unit cost savings. Under its present management,
the CMPA is poised to become the catalyst for a significant improvement
in the productivity of the livestock sector. The CMPA approach of simul-
taneous provision of extension, input supply and marketing services has
had good results in milk and poultry production for a special, limited
market. The investments envisaged in the subproject would enable CMPA to
operate at lower unit costs and thereby to take a first step in expanding
its activities into the lower price consumer market. In turn, the number
of producers serviced by CMPA would increase.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
ANIMAL FEED PRODUCTION AND MARKETING. OF POULTRY PRODUCTS
Investments
Project Year 1
Unit      Unit Cost                         Costs           FE
CFAF '000          No.         CFAF '000         %
A  Feed Plant
Extension to existing building                         2o                          250           10,000
Grinder-mixer plant and installation                  No.        12,500              1           12,500
Pelleting press equipped with compressor, mixer,    No.          19,000              1           19,000
cooler,fan and steam generator and installation
Mineral lick press and installation                   No.        14i,ooo             1           14,000
Increase in water supply and storage with
electric pump, reservoir and installation             No.         5,500              1            5,500
Subtotal                                                    61,ooi          80
B Poultry products processing
Building                                              m2             60            120            7,200
Equipment and installation of a poultry               No.         3,100              1            3,100
slaughter house
Equipment and installation of a cold room             m              70             50            3,500
Subtotal                                                     13,800         80
C  Physical contingencies (10%)                                                                      7,480          80
Total                                                        82028o          80
CD N



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
General
1.        The subproject ains at developing bottomlands in the southwest-
ern part of the country.  Bottomlands are small, flat depressions along
the streambeds of open valleys, usually poorly drained and surrounded by
higher well-drained ground. The watercourses along which these lands are
situated are sometimes perennial but more frequently the areas are sea-
sonally marshy. In the bottomland basins, soils are predominantly clayey
with low permeability.
2.        Annual rainfall in the area varies from about 1,100 mm in the
south (Moundou) to about 900 mm in the north (Kelo). 80% of the rainfall
occurs between the beginning of June and the end of September.
3.        The Ministry of Agriculture has estimated that there are some
40,000 ha of bottomlands in the region. These are at present mainly used
as pastures although some areas are under extensive rice and sorghum cul-
tivation. The higher ground surrounding the bottomlands is cultivated
under cotton, sorghum and millet.  In the vicinity of Kelo some 2,000 ha
of undeveloped bottomlands are now under rice cultivation. With tradi-
tional cultural methods, yields of about 800 kg of paddy per ha are being
obtained.
4.        Airphoto cover of the area on a 1:50,000 scale, flown by I.G.N.
in 1974/75, is available from a range management study; 1:100,000 scale
mapping is also available.
The Subproject
5.        The objective of the subproject would be to carry out improve-
ment works on about 700 ha of bottomlands located roughly within the quad-
rilateral: Moundou, Beinamar, Kelo, Pala. The size of the areas to be de-
veloped would vary between 5 and 20 ha, averaging210 ha. The zone of the
subproject has a population density of over 20/km . The area has been
selected because (a) there is already land pressure, (b) there are already
farmers cultivating bottomlands, and (c) the existing, recent air photo-
graphy facilitates identification and selection of perimeters for develop-
ment.
6.        Simple improvement works would consist of spaced contour bunds
so that each would be located at an elevation 0.20 m below the previous
one. Further bunds constructed normal to the contours would limit indi-
vidual fields to about 0.2 ha. For a gradient of 1:100, the spacing of



ANNEX 8
Page 2
contour bunds would be about 18 m and the distance between longitudinal
bunds about 148 m giving about 1,000 m of bund per ha. Bunds would be
trapezoidal in cross-section, 0.30 m top width, 0.40 m high with 1:1 side
slopes. Bottomlands to be chosen would have an even gradient not steeper
than 1:100 and a catchment area not less than 40 times the area of the pro-
posed development in order to ensure rapid flooding of the paddy fields.
7.        Water control would be limited to passing catchment runoff from
field to field through two 10 cm plastic-pipe culvert drains in each field.
These pipes, 1.5 m long, would have grouted stone pitched aprons as inlets
and outlets to prevent erosion. Fields would be filled progressively from
downstream and the water depth across the field would vary from 10 cm to
30 cm. The culverts would also serve to drain the fields and to control
the water level in the event of flooding or heavy rain. Fields would be
smoothed to eliminate irregularities and ensure that the whole area bunded
could be inundated evenly.
8.        Project components would consists of:
(i) Land preparation - Land smoothing would be carried out
for the farmers by ONDR operated tractors.
(ii)  Construction of field bunds - Initial earthmoving for
the construction of field bunds would be done by trac-
tors. Farmers would participate by providing unpaid
labor for moving additional fill and for forming and
compacting field bunds, using small tools provided
under the project.
(iii) Culvert drains - These would be constructed by skilled
labor hired under the project and supplied with the
necessary materials.
(iv) Vehicles and equipment - The project would purchase
five vehicles necessary for survey teams and supervi-
sion, 14 mobylettes for extension agents and three 65
hp tractors would be supplied for earthmoving and land
smoothing.
9.        The subproject would be implemented over a three-year period.
During the first year of the project, sites would be selected, and equip-
ment and vehicles procured. In consequence only 50 ha are planned for im-
plementation. In the next two years 250 ha and 400 ha, respectively, are
planned to be implemented.
Organization and Management
10.       Bottomlands would be developed under the responsibility of
GR which would administer them through a new base to be established
at Moundou. Sites would be selected after photo-interpretation and



ANNEX 8
Page 3
ground reconnaissance carried out by an engineer recruited to design and
manage the subproject. Extension agents would obtain farmers' consent to
develop the bottomlands, their cooperation in constructing field bunds and
contour dikes, and their agreement to distribute plots according to work
performed by individuals. GR teams would be directly responsible for topo-
graphical surveys and for setting out works.
11.       GR would submit an annual program of work to the RPF for approval.
12.       Maintenance of field bunds would be carried out by the farmers
under the direction of the ONDR extension agents. It is estimated that
farmers' labor for maintenance would amount to about 14 man-days per ha
per year.
Subproject Costs
13.       Project costs, summarized below, are mainly for the supply
of small tools and materials and have been estimated at mid-1976 net-of-
tax prices. Table 1 gives the schedule of implementation and investment.
Table 2 shows unit quantities and costs and Table 3 gives details of per-
sonnel requirements.
Subproject Cost Summary
Cost                   %
Item                                Local      Foreign      Total      FE
-----------CFAF-------------
Bottomland Development                   13.3       19.2          32.5     59
ONDR Staff                               13.6         -           13.6       -
G-R Staff                                10.6         -           10.6      -
Technical Assistance                      8.5       34.0          42.5     80
Tractors                                  1.3        7.1           8.4     85
Vehicles                                   1.3       7.4           8.7     85
Operating Costs                           7.2        8.7          15.9     55
Physical Contingencies                    8.0        9.3          17.3     54
Total                               63.8       85.7         149.5     58
14.       Project costs, including physical contingencies, can be allocated
as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Item                           Cost         % of total
Civil works                            37.4             25
Government salaries                    27.8             19
Technical assistance                  48.9              33
Equipment                              17.1             il
Operating costs                        18.3             12
Total                          149.5            100
Justification
15.       A typical bottomland development of 10 ha will be cultivated by
about 50 families whose main activity will continue to be upland farming of
cereals and cotton. Some of the bottomlands to be developed are being cul-
tivated, with paddy yields of about 800 kg/ha, the uncultivated bottomlands
are used as dry season grazing for work oxen. The subproject involves phys-
ical improvement of the bottomlands but, in the first phase at least, no
improvement in farm inputs.  Paddy yields are expected to increase from 800
kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha in the crop season following the dry season in which
the physical improvements will have been made. Incremental paddy output
at full operations on 700 ha, of which it is assumed that 50% is presently
cultivated, will be 560 tons/ year. This corresponds to 160 kg per farming
family of five.
16.       Despite these small volumes, some if not most of the incremen-
tal paddy will be traded either in the domestic market geared to N'Djamena
or in northern Cameroon, the two main outlets for Chadian rice (there are
no recorded imports). National paddy output is about 40,000 tons/year,
mainly in the Lai-Bongor region which lies between the subproject area and
N'Djamena. The Sategui-Deressia project (Credit 489-CD), located near Lai,
was initially planned to produce 8,000 tons of rice/year by 1982 or about half
the anticipated increase in domestic demand. It is likely, therefore, that
Chad would still be a net importer of rice and in that case production from
the subproject would be valued as if destined for N'Djamena. On the other
hand, a modest increase in productivity in the main production region would
suffice to keep Chad a small net exporter of rice, and production from the
subproject would be valued as if destined for Ngaoundere (Cameroon). In
view of this uncertainty, the rate of return is calculated for both cases
(a) delivery to N'Djamena, i.e. import substitution, and (b) export to
Cameroon. Rates of return over 10 years and assuming no maintenance costs are
as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Economic farm gate /1      Actual farm gate /1       Internal /2
paddy Price (1976 terms)  paddy price (1975/76)  Economic Return
---------------------CFAF/kg-----------------
1976          1980
N'Djamena base      66             57                 25                  14%
Ngaoundere base    57              48                 35                   9%
/1   Details at Table 4.
/2   Details at Table 5.
17.       The technical assistance component, namely one rural engineer, is
the indispensable catalyst required to plan and supervise the execution of
bottomland improvements. The local survey and implementation teams will
receive the kind of practical experience that should permit them to con-
tinue with new bottomland improvements after project completion. Rather
than charge the full cost of the technical assistance component to the sub-
project, as in the above rates of return where it amounts to 30% of total
subproject costs, it should be spread over a bottomland area far larger than
that included in the subproject.
18.       All project benefits will accrue to the participating farmers.
If    all net incremental output were sold, the total cash benefit at CFAF
35/kg would be CFAF 19 million/year. With 3,500 beneficiary families, the
average benefit/family would be CFAF 5,400/year (US$24).



ANNEX 8
Table 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Schedule of Implementation and Subproject Costs
Year 1  Year 2  Ycar 3
13plementation                        ----       ha--
Annual                                  50      250      4oo                         7/
VoluntaTy Residual
Cumulative                             50       300      700                   labor    value
man days    CFAF
Total  %FE    '000    million
Subproject Coats                      ---------CFAF million---------
Bottomland development 1/             2.32    11.60   18.56   32.48   59          98
ONDR staff 2/                         o.65      4.lo    8.86   13.61    -          -
G-R Survey teams 2/                   0.40      1.76    2.70    4.86    -          -
- Implementation teams 2/             1.14      2.28    2.28    5.70    -          -
Technical assistance                 14.18    14.18   14.18   42.54   80           -      5.60
3/
Purchase of tractors and equipment  2.80        2.80    2.80    8.4o   85          -      3.52
Purchase of vehicles 4/               4.71      1.88    2.07    8.66   85          -
Vehicle operating costs 5/            3.18      5.73    7.02   15.93   55          -
Subtotal               29.38    44.33   58.47  132.18   58          98
6/
Physical contingencies 3.28       5.95    8.o4   17.27   54         15        -
TOTAL                  32.66    50.28   66.51  149.45   58         113      9.12
=                  =    -                   =
1/  Table 2; includes small tools, materials, tractor operation, and skilled labor.
2/ Table 3.
3/ 3 tractors (65 HP) and implements at unit cost of CFAF 2.8 million.
5|~ 5 pickups (3/4 ton) for the survey teams (3), implementation team (1) and
subproject management (1) at unit cost of CFAF 1.55 million; 14 mobylettes
(1 per extension agent) at unit cost of CFAF 65,000.
5/ Pickups 30,000 km/year at CFAF 60/km; mobylettes 6,000 km/year at CFAF 5/km.
/  15% of all items with the exception of purchase of tractors, equipment and
vehicles. Also includes provision for initial supply of seeds for those
bottomlands that are not presently being cultivated.
7/ Supplied by final beneficiaries and worth t.EFAF 24 million, even with no
physical contingency.



ANNEX 8
CHAD                                       Table 2
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Unit Quantities and Costs /1
Item                                                     Cost              %
CFAF        CFAF/ha   FE
Small tools - 1 set for 10 ha unit
10 picks at CFAF 4,500                                    45,000
10 shovels at CFAF 5,000                                  50,000
5 wheelbarrows at CFAF 18,000                             90,000
Total for 10 ha.                            185,000      18,500    85
Materials - 8 culvert drains/ha
8/1.5 x 10 cm dia. pipe culverts at CFAF 250/m               3,000
2
8/0.75m , inlets and aprons, at CFAF 2,250/m2               13,500      16,500    45
Earthmoving
Machine hours
/3
Field bunds       3 hrs/ha
Land smoothing   3.5 hrs/ha
Travelling time  0.5 hrs/ha
/2
7.0 hrs/ha at CFAF 1,060/hr           7,4oo
Farmers' labor
140 man-days/ha 4/                                          _       7,400    55
Skilled labor
Laying culverts, inlets and aprons
Two laborers for 4 days at CFAF 500/day                              4hooo       -
Total - Development cost/ha                                  46,400    59
/1 An average bottomland development model is taken as 10 ha.
/2 Operating cost of tractor and implements excluding operator's wages.
fX 1000 meters of bunds/ha
/4  Bunds 280 m3/ha, labor output 2m3/day.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Personnel, Wages and Salaries
W'inction         Monthly    No.per          Year 1          Year 2            Year 3
Salary     Team
CFAF
'000               ----       (man months) CFAF million------
ONDR
Extension agents             45        _        (12) 0.540       (72) 3.240       (168) 7.560
Tractor drivers              36        _        ( 3) 0.108       (24) o.864       (36)  1.296
Total                                        0.648           4.1o4             8.856
G-R
Survey team
Surveyor                   4o        1        ( 3) 0.120       (13) 0.520      (20) 0.800
Assistant surveyor         22        1        ( 3) o.o66       (13) 0.286      (20) o.44o
Co  L9 2  
Chainmen                   12        4        (12) o.144       (52) 0.624       (80) 0.960
Driver                     25        1        ( 3) 0.075       (13) 0.325      (20) 0.500
Total                                        o.405           1.755            2.700
Implementation team
Supervisory engineer      100        1        ( 6) 0.600       (12) 1.200      (12) 1e200
Field supervisors          4Q        1        ( 6) 0.240       (12) 0.480      (12) c~.48'0
Drivers                    25        2        (12) 0.300       (24) o.600      (24) o.600
Total                                        1.140           2.280            2.280
Technical Assistance - Rural engineer for 3 years at a cost of CFAF 14.175 million /year.
/1 One extension agent for 250 farmers (50 ha), i.e. 14 required at full development.



ANNEX 8
CHAD                                       Table 4
RURAL PROJECT FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Prices and Marketing Structures for Paddy
(In 1976 terms)
1976       1980
1. Economie Price Structure                                          -----US$/ton-----
Reference price /1                                                     301         242
Freight and insurance                                                    50          50
Douala port fees and handling                                           15           15
Value ex port                                                           366         307
---- CFAF/ton----
Value ex port/2                                                    102,480      85,960
(a) For consumption in N'Djamena
Rail and road transport from Douala                             30,000      30,000
Less: road transport from bottomland area to N'Djamena
450 km, CFAF 20/tkm /3                                   9,000       9,000
Local collection and bagging                              4,ooo       4osno
Value of rice in the bottomland area                           119,480    102,960
/4
Paddy equivalent  or economic farmgate price                    65,718      56,628
(b) For consumption in Ngaoundere
Rail transport from Douala                                      12,500      12,500
Less: road transport from bottomiland area to Ngaoundere:
375 km, CFAF 20/tkm/3                                     7,500       7,500
local collection and bagging                              4,ooo       4,ooo
Value of rice in the bottomland area                           103,480      86,960
/4
Paddy equivalent  or economic farmgate price                    56,914      47,828
2.  Actual price structures (Dec. 1975 harvest)                           CFAF/kg
(a) Domestic consumption
FDAR buying  price of paddy at Bongor and Lai                       25
FDAR weighted average selling price of rice (bagged)                62
at N'DJamena
N.B. Import parity price atN'Djamena/5                             112
(b) Exports to northern Cameroon.
Reported farmers' price for paddy                                   35
Implied value of rice landed Ngaoundere /6                          84
N.B. Import parity price at Ngaoundere  /5                          95
/1  Bank forecast prices of 'ovember 26, 1975 (Thai, 25%-35% br., fob Bangkok)
in 1973 constant dollars, aujusted to 1976 terms by the Bank index of DC's exports of
manufactures SITC 5-8.
/2 Exchange rate CFAF 280 = US$ 1.00.
/3  12 ton  trucks, good earth road, no backload.
/4 Yield of hand milling: 55%.
/5 At current exchange rate of CFAF 225 = US$ 1.00.
/6 Yield of hand milling: 55%;transport in 5 ton trucks, good earth road,
no backload, at CFAF 40/ton.



ANNEX 8
Table 5
CEAD
,RURAL PROJECTS FUND
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
Rate of Return  PY1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY 5-10
----CF.AF million-----------
Costs
Total Costs l/                                  32.66  50.28  66.51  -9.12        -
Total costs with FE component
increased by factor of 1.25                     37.56  57.82  76.49 -11.04
Benefits                             Unit
Cumulative Area                      ha          50      300    700    700      700
Incremental production              tons
from cultivated bottomlands 2/    "            10      60    14o    14o    1iO
from u,cultivated bottomlands 3/  "            28.3   169.5  395.5  395.5   395.5
Economic farmgate price,
N'DJamèna base 4/                 CFAF/kg      63.75   61.50  59.25  57        57
Total Benefits                       CFAF million 2.44   i4.11  31.72  30.52   30.52
Net Benefits                                    (35.12) (43.71)(44.77). 41.56  -30.52
IER: 14.1%
i/  Table 1.  Farmers' labor required in the investment phase is 140 mandays/ha.
With 5 families/ha and 2 economically active people/family, each must con-
tribute 14 mandays - during the dry season. This labor is therefore costed
at zero.
2/ No change in seed (or labor) input; incremental output is 400 kg/ha.
3/ Incremental output is 1,200 kg/ha less seed at 70 kg/ha. The foregone grazing
of uncultivated bottomlands by draught oxen is assumed to be offset by the
grazing of stubble and the use of rice bran by the oxen. No allovance is
made for a decline in rainfed farming output since the labor input to bottomland ric<
rice (90 days/ha) is so small when expressed per economically active family
member: 9 days/plot of 0.2 ha.
4/ Table 4. Linear decline from a 1976 price of CFAF 66/kg to a 1980 price of
CFAF 57/kg; constant thereafter.
5/ Residual value of equipment.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
RPF MANAGEMENT
1.        A Fund Management Unit (FMU), to be set up in the Ministry of
Economy, Planning and Transport, would have overall responsibility for manage-
ment of the RPF. Funds would be disbursed through an account to be opened
in the name of the FMU at the BDT. The existing Office of Foreign Aid
Management in the same Ministry, which keeps the Governnent account for the
Livestock Project (Credit 309-CD) and the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 445-CD),
would assist the FMU Manager in the overall financial control of all project
activities. This would include, where necessary, advice to the agencies
charged with the execution of particular subprojects on the appropriate
accounts to be kept. The project would finance an additional accountant in
the Office of Foreign Aid Management.
2.        The FMU would approve all subproject work programs, budgets and
progress reports, bidding procedures and contracts. It would introduce a
monitoring and reporting system along the lines proposed in Annex 11, and
be responsible for timely reporting thereafter.  It would also be responsible
for the identification and preparation of subprojects for inclusion in a
follow-up RPF.  In each of these three fields of activity the FMU would be
making innovations within the Ministry of Planning and in the relations
between the Ministry and the various executing agencies.  In challenging
established roles and procedures, FMU staff would have to exercise due
discretion, but there is a widely felt need both in the Ministry and in the
executing agencies for improvement of work planning, monitoring and prepara-
tion of small rural projects. FMU staff would have to 'feel their way' in
introducing new methods but, at their discretion, formal seminars might be
held with senior staff of the Ministry and the executing agencies.
3.        One of the criteria for the selection of subprojects for inclu-
sion in the RPF was whether they could be implemented by one of the better
executing agencies. These agencies have their own proven operating pro-
cedures, including selection of staff for promotion, provision of an
appropriate breadth of experience and, where necessary, specific training.
These procedures are operating in a reasonably satisfactory manner in
headquarters, but they are not so effective in regional centers. Of the
seven expatriates envisaged in key positions, six would be responsible for
new or substantially expanded activities in rural areas: three in small-
scale irrigation in the northern Chari Valley, two in the SERARHY bases
at Ati and Moundou, and one at Moundou in charge of bottomland development.
An additional expatriate, carried over from Credit 309-CD, would be employed
as the chief mechanic of the SERARHY bases at Abeche and Ati.  These ex-
patriate staff would be required to make particular efforts to seek out
potential managers among their subordinate local staff and to ensure that
they are given a thorough practical grounding in basic management procedures.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
These would include such elementary but nonetheless essential procedures
as the planning of maintenance schedules, the control and provision of an
adequate stock of materials and spare parts, the scheduling of transport
and staff movements, and the keeping of simple but adequate accounts. An
important criterion in the selection of expatriate staff would be the dis-
position to involve senior local staff in these basic management functions.
The FMU would be responsible for overseeing that this involvement was being
undertaken satisfactorily and would require a specific quarterly report from
each expatriate financed from the RPF on the identification of potential
managers and steps taken to involve them in the management process.
4.        The RPF would finance annual two-week training seminars for about
60 participants/year from, as first priority, the field staff of ONDR, SERARHY
and Genie Rural involved in subproject execution. The seminars would deal
with work planning, budgeting and accounting, progress reporting and monitor-
ing, and technical matters; they would be planned by FMU with the assistance
of the Training Unit that would be set up in the Ministry of Agricultural
and Pastoral Development under the proposed third IDA Education Project. Cur-
ricula of seminars and selection of participants would be initially proposed
by the RPF-financed expatriate staff, reviewed by FMU and the Training Unit,
and forwarded to IDA for approval.
5.        For the small-scale irrigation subproject, training of field exten-
sion staff and farmers in animal traction and animal care, and pump operation
and routine maintenance, would be organized in each service center by the
Input Supply/Extension organizer. He would be assisted in the physical design
of these centers and in the determination of content and methods of training
courses by the Ministry's Training Unit. While he would give the first few
training sessions in each center himself, he would be responsible for choosing
people from among his local staff to take over those sessions.



ANNEX 9
Schedule 1
Page 1
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
RPF MANAGEMENT
Qualifications and Responsibilities of Key Personnel
RPF Management Unit
Fund Manager
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, a Chadian national with a good
knowledge of French, should be an experienced administrator, with a sound
background in rural development. He would preferably be an agronomist or
rural engineer; management capacity would, however, take precedence over
formal qualifications in the selection of the appointee.
2         Responsibilities - He will be responsible for the overall finan-
cial control of all project activities, with the assistance of the Office
of Foreign Aid Management. He will also be responsible for the timely
preparation of annual work programs, budgets and subsequent progress re-
ports from all subproject executing agencies. He will arrange for the
preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports to IDA on all RPF
activities and for the preparation, by the end of the second year of
project effectiveness, of an outline of a possible second RPF project.
3.        He will be attached administratively to the Department of Plan-
ning in the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport and will report to
the Interministerial Governing Committee of the RPF through the Director
of the Department of Planning.
Agricultural Economist
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have had training in agriculture and a sound knowledge of economics
or vice versa, preferably with some experience in civil engineering. He
should have at least five years experience in planning and/or managing rural
development projects in developing countries.
2.        Responsibilities - Under the direction of the manager of the
RPF, he will be responsible for monitoring progress of all subprojects,
identifying problems and proposing solutions. He will prepare the annual
progress report from the RPF to IDA. At the request of subproject execut-
ing agencies, he will analyze technical choices or any other managerial
problems involved in subproject planning and execution. By the end of
the second year of project effectiveness, he will prepare an outline of
a possible second RPF project.



ANNEX 9
Schedule 1
Page 2
3.        He will be attached administratively to the Department of Plan-
ning in the Ministry of Economy, Planning and Transport and will report to
the RPF Manager.
Small-Scale Irrigation (Annex 2)
Agronomist
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have a degree in agriculture and preferably have done post-graduate
work in general agriculture, agricultural economics or agricultural research.
His experience should include at least 10 years in senior management of
agricultural projects, preferably in Sahelian or North African countries.
He should be familiar with dry-land and irrigated cultivation in the region,
including wheat. He should have the leadership qualities required to un-
dertake pioneering works, to motivate extension workers and to promote and
sustain farmer participation in the construction and operation of the peri-
meters.
2.        Responsibilities - He will be the head of PIC and his responsi-
bility will be to organize the installation of the 42 irrigation perimeters
and five service centers and to ensure that effective operating procedures
are established. He will advise the General Manager ONDR on all aspects
of the subproject. He will direct the preparation of the subproject's yearly
planning and budget and subsequent progress reports for presentation to the
RPF. He will subnit a quarterly report on the identification of potential
managers and on steps taken to involve them in the management process.
3.        He will be attached administratively to ONDR and will report to
the General Manager of ONDR.
Irrigation Specialist
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have a degree in agriculture with specialization in small-scale
irrigation works. His experience should include at least five years ex-
perience in planning and supervising the construction and agricultural
development of minor pumped irrigation schemes in developing, preferably
Sahelian, countries. He should know how to organize and work closely with
topographical teams, structures teams and farmer groups.
2.        Responsibilities - He will be responsible for the planning and
installation of the irrigation perimeters and organizing farmer participa-
tion in the investment program.  He will ensure that the annual construction
program is carried out as planned and will assist and direct the farmers in
implementing development. He will be the field director of the investment
phase of each perimeter to be installed under the subproject. He will submit
a quarterly report on the identification of potential managers and on steps
taken to involve them in the management process.



ANNEX 9
Schedule 1
Page 3
3.        He will be attached administratively to the ONDR and will report
to the Director of PIC.
Input Supply/Extension Organizer
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have a degree in agriculture with specialization in extension work.  He
should have at least five years field experience in agricultural extension
on small irrigation projects in developing, preferably Sahelian, countries.
His experience should include organizing and motivating farmer groups and
organizing input supply and pump maintenance facilities.
2.        Responsiblities - He will be reponsible for agricultural exten-
sion and input supplies.  He will ensure the timely delivery of inputs,
and organize farmer training in the use of inputs. He will organize water
distribution, and pump maintenance and overhaul schedules. He will be the
field director of the post-investment phase of each perimeter installed
under the subproject, and for the investment and post-investment phases of
each service center. He will submit a quarterly report on the identification
of potential managers and on steps taken to involve them in the management
process.
3.        He will be attached administratively to ONDR and will report to
the Director of PIC.
Pastoral Wells: Batha Prefecture (Annex 4)
SERARHY Base Supervisor
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have higher technical certificate qualifications or equivalent and
should have at least five years field experience in controlling and adminis-
tering scattered well construction teams in developing, preferably Sahelian,
countries.
2.        Responsibilities - He will be in charge of the SERARHY base at
Ati, which is to be strengthened under the subproject, and will organize
and supervise the work of well maintenance, repair and reconstruction. He
will carry out inventories of existing wells and will keep hydrogeological
records for forwarding to the Bureau de l'Eau. In cooperation with the
SERARHY Director, he will prepare the subproject's annual plan of work,
budget and subsequent progress reports for presentation through SERARHY
to RPF. He will submit a quarterly report on the identification of potential
managers and on steps taken to involve them in the management process.
3.        He will be attached administratively to SERARHY and will report
to the Director.



ANNEX 9
Schedule 1
Page 4
Village Water Supplies (Annex 5)
SERARHY Base Supervisor
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have higher technical certificate qualifications or equivalent and
should have at least five years field experience in operating tubewell drill-
ing rigs in developing, preferably Sahelian, countries and in controlling and
administering scattered well construction teams.
2.        Responsibilities - He will be in charge of the SERARHY base to be
established at Moundou and will organize and supervise the work of the teams
engaged in well repairs and construction. He will also train a team to operate
the equipment supplied for drilling small tubewells and will organize and
supervise their installation. He will carry out inventories of existing wells
and tubewells and will keep hydrogeological records for forwarding to the
Bureau de l'Eau. He will be responsible for carrying out pumping tests on all
boreholes installed. He will prepare the subproject's annual plan of work,
budget and subsequent progress reports for presentation through SERARHY to
RPF. He will submit a quarterly report on the identification of potential
managers and on steps taken to involve them in the management process.
3.        He will be attached administratively to SERARHY and will report
to the Director.
Bottomland Development (Annex 8)
Rural Engineer
1.        Qualifications - The candidate, with a good knowledge of French,
should have a degree in agriculture with specialization in agricultural
engineering or civil engineering. He should have at least five years
experience in planning and supervising the construction of small-scale
irrigation and drainage works in developing countries. He should have the
leadership qualities required to undertake pioneering works, to promote farmer
participation in the construction program and to motivate extension agents.
2.        Responsibilities - He will be responsible for the identification
and selection of bottomlands to be developed. He will supervise and, where
necessary, train the teams of topographical surveyors who will be seconded
to him from Genie Rural.  He will also be responsible for the implementation
of bottomland development. He will prepare the subproject's annual plan of
work, budget and subsequent progress reports for presentation through GR to
RPF. He will submit a quarterly report on the identification of potential
managers and on steps taken to involve them in the management process.
3.        He will be attached administratively to Genie Rural and will
report to the Director.



GicAi                                                                             ANNIEX 'J
Tablo I
RRAL_PROJECI FUNi)
RFi~ 4A-iAGEOENT
uCosi_ o  the Ma-rLe  jni-
- ------------CFAF million---------------------------
iUn"             No.                Ui.              Y2ar 1            Year 2            Year 3            Total               7YE
_  t-----
Vehitels and eqgiLprient
Sal>îi  c.i-                                     No.               1                 1.800             1.80               -                 -                1.80               85
Sa!.a   p ik Ip                                 No                1                 1.150             1.15               -                                  1.15                85
flf:1 iY,Sahiîines /1                            -                                   0.540             0.54               _                                  0.54               90
office ftarniture                                                  -                 1.575             1.58               -                 -                1.58               70
Subtota'                                                                                        5.07               -                 -                5.07               81
Pers jalol
Funid si.l;  i                                   man-years         1                .1.800             1.80               1.80              1.80             5.40               -
,gricîltural Economist                              "              1                14.175            14.18              14.18             14.18            42.54               80
Accountant                                                         1                 0.996             1.00               1.00              1.00             3.00               -
Secretary                                           "                                o.eso             0.66               0.66              0.66             1.98
Typi:at                                                            1                 0.300             0.30               0.30              0.30             0.90               -
2                0.300             0.60               0.60               0.60             1.80
Suht; <:::l1                                                                                   18.54              18.54             18.54            55.62               61
Other operating costs
Salin>l .ar                                 0O00 ikm/year         20                 0.045             .90                0.90              0.90             2.70               55
Se,a11. *irCk-up                                                  20                 0.035             0.70               0.70              0.70             2.10               55
Of-ice space /2                                 Anon:t1 r5ant      1                 1.620             1.62               1.62              1.62             4.86               -
Office supplies                                 Annual sua         1                 0.450             0.45               0.45              0.45             1.35               90
Post and telephoae                                                 1                 0.450             0.45               0.45              0.45             1.35               -
Maiolirrna:ri )F ,ea,4iLaai  !3                                    1                 0.108             0.11               0.11              0.11             0.33               55
Pr,visiLn for audit                                                I                 0.800             0.80               0.80              0.80             2.40               -
Training seminars /4                        participants/yr    f0                    0.027             1.62               1.62              1.62             4.86                -
COqsîlftait s /5                                Ma  mnoriths      16                 1.580               -                6.32             18.96            25.28               80
Subc Jtal                                                                                       6.65              12.97             25.61            45.23               54
Miscellaneous /6
SERARHY .mechanic HQ                            Man years          1                 1.400             1.40               1.40              1.40             4.20
SEMMR{Y OScIlSic Ab.'n  /7                      Myn yeart          0.5               7,325             7.33               7.33              7.33            21.99               80
Subtî.,tal                                                                                      8-.73              8.73              8.326,19                             67
Physical contingencies  /8                                                                             2.73               2.73              2.73             8.19               67
Total                                                                                                 41.72              42.97             55.61           140.30                61
/1   t photocopy4ng machine, 2 typewriters, 3 calculators - of which 2 print-out,
/2  Rent and utilities
/3  20. oE 2d>rchase price
/4  Travel end per diem inN'Djamena fo,r ONDR aqIl SERAtRU    i eltd qtsFf
!,  PY 3 costs relate primartly tl  prepara ti)n of a se)oqd RPF  iîc,Ject
/6  Both aechanics are engaged under contracts f iianced by existing IDA, pc)ujects.  Since those
projects would havs  tlterwta.s  t  be  cîloL igeu  s.lely t i pal these twa salaries, the correas-
ponding ce5st ar-  incluied iii ti.! RPF; ceaaining  Eands   Wer t tee Ixtin8g proj*.ot&r
would partly be used for preparatton for  ,-hi         J a ,
!7  0.5 na--yna-s included in the cost of subprojeci: Pastoral wall3 - 3Stha prafec:are  î0tt
cost includes 10% physical oentlge1cy
/d  15'/  i tuPe ag-icultural economist, vehicile operatiog costs, ofEEcq ,pace areS orraiston for
audit.



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
RPF MANAGEMENT
Proposed Organization and Management
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY,                                                                                                     MINISTRY OF CIVIL
PLANNING AND TRANSPORT                                   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL AND PASTORAL DEVELOPMENT               ENGINEERING,
MINES AND GEOLOGY
INTERMINISTERIAL GOVERNING
DEPARTMENT *  COMMITTEE (DIRECTORS
OF PLANNING    GENERAL PLUS DIRECTOR OF
PLANNING)
OFFICE 0F
FOREIGN AID       RURAL PROJECT FUND
ACCOUNTING        MANAGEMENT UNIT
-___ -_T__ ----__ -    ----r. -------
DEPAIENT 0F                    DEPARTMENT 0F
ONDR                     CMPAGE  RURAL                                                       PUBLIC WORKS
PIC                                                       SEF                                         COTONTCHAD
SMALL SCALE    INPUT             ANIMAL              PASTORAL        VILLAGE WATER      BOTTOMLAND        FEEDER ROAD
IRRIGATION      WAREHOUSES       FEED/POULTRY        WELLS-          SUPPLI ES          DEVELOPMENT       IMPROVEMENT
World Bank-15814



A06II10
080AD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING Ai9D IMPL8ENNTATION SCIEI8IlE
Su-ory of Pro-i-t Coots aud Flpaucing
Couts                                                       Benefi-   Fiuanced by
Year 1     Year 2      Yoar 3       Total                                     oitries        FAC           IDA
-CFeF n        lion-             06-- CFAF Uilliou-Ae-__
milloion millilot
Vehsiclos il                                              11.41       12.88      18.70  42.99   0.19                                    27.13           3.17       12.69
Equipment                                                 10.71      26.97       39.49  77,17   0.34                                      -            15.43       61.74
Expotriato otaff                                          44.11      44.11       44.11 132.33   0.59                                      _            26.47      105.86
Local staff                                                7.50      22.00       40.44  69.94   0.31                                                   13.99      155.95
Civil woria                                               23.38      59.91       89.50 172.79   0.77                                                   312.66     038.23
Operatiog costs 2/                                         9.84       21.13      30 33  63.30   0.28                                                        F
Total oobproject co.t                       1068.95     187.00     264.5  558.52   2.47.13                                                106.28     t29.11
CaivI  -aou                                              182.40     138.90      L340c20 455.50   2.02                                     _             _            252
Pastoral wells
Vehioles                                                  10.00         -         4.80  14.80   0.05                                      -             -          14.80
Eqaipment                                                 22.44       0.10        2.53  25.07   0.01                                      -             -          25.07
spatriato staff                                           19.98      19.98       19.98  59.94   0.27                                      -             _          59.94
Local stafs                                               13.46       13.46      13.46  40.38   0.18                                      -             -          40.38
Civil  -os                                                21.02      21.02       21.02  63.06   0.28                                      _             -          63.06
Opv-tisg ctO                                              12.59      12.59       12.59  37.77   0.17                                      -             -          37e77
Total subproject rost:                       99.49       67.15       74.38 241.02   1.07                                                             241.02
Village noter oo550li05
Vehicles                                                  30.50         -          -     30.50   0.13                                      -            -          30.50
Equipneat                                                126.40       7.30        7.30 141.00   0.63                                      -             -         141.00
Expatriato staff                                          14.20       14.20      14.20  42.60   0.19                                      -             -          42.60
Loc   otaef                                                 -        19.50       19.50  39.00   0.17                                      -             -          39.00
C'xi Iods n19.60                                                     49.00       49.00 117.60   0.52                                      -             -         117.60
pertiag .o.to                                              3.60      33.80       33.80  71.20   0.32                                    44.19           _          27.01
Total subprojeat cost:                      194.30      123.80     123.80 441.90   1.96                                     44.19           -        397.71
Fooder road imoprovemenot
Vehicles                                                  3b60          -          -    33.60   0.16                                       -            -          33.60
Eqoipmont                                                  1.60       0.32        0.32   2.24   0.01                                                    -           2.24
Local staff                                               18.94       14.57      14.57  48.08   0.1-                                                               48,08
Civil sora                                                31.66      31.67       31.67  95.00   0.42                                      -             -          95.00
Operatiog -osts                                           53.69       17.39      17.39  90.47   0.40                                       -            -          90.47
Total s-bproijct cost:                      141.49       63.95       63.95 269.39   1.20                                                             269.
A_al1 feed/poultrY                                                                                                                                                        76
Equipment                                                 57.60         -          -    57.60   0.25                                                    -          57.60
Civil -kork                                               17.20         -          -    17.20   0.08                                     -                         17.28
Total sabprejoat cont:                       74.80         -           -    74.80   0.33                                                               4.80
lottosaloof devolopmsent                                                                                                                                      34          36
Vfhioles                                                   7.51       4.68        4.87  17.06   0.08                                      -               41       13.65
Oxpatriato otaff                                          14.18      14.18       14.18  42.54   0.19                                      -              .51       34.73
Local staff                                                2.19       8.14       13.84  24.17   0.11                                                    2.31        9.24
Civil yarks                                                0.83       4.12        6.60  11.05   0.05                                                    737 2.9.249
Operating cooto                                            4.67       13.21      18.98  36.86   0.16                                      _            26        41    9
Total subproijct cost:                       29.30       44.33       58.47 132,18   0.59                                      -            2          O5.75
RPF Maagron   fi
BFMneemh                                                   2.95         -          -      2,95   0.01                                     _             0.59        2.36
Equipmeot                                                  2.12              -            2.12   0.01                                                   0.42        1.70
Expatriate otaff 3/                                       21.51       27.83      40.47  89.81   0.40                                                    2 .96      71.85
Local staff                                                4.36       4.36        4.36  13.08   0.06                                                    2.62       10.46
't"'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-4.63                                                             19.32~
Operating coots 4/                                         8.05        8.05       8.05  24.15   0.11                                                  42.42       1
Total oobproject coot                        38.99       40.24       52.88 132.11   0.59
Total SObprobeot Cosnt                      867.80      665.37     772.25 2305.42 10.24                                     71.32        159.13   2,074.97
Physical coatiuguscies                                    57.90       72.41      83.20  213.51  0.95                                    10.70          16.93      185.88
Eop-cted price inatoases  S/                              59.99      150.59     283.60  494.18  2.20                                    13.05          39.50      4416
Total PFrojeC Coot                          985.69      888.37    1139.05 3013.11 13039                                     915.0 7
USS million 61                                             4.38        3.95       5.06   13.39                                           o.42           0.96       12.01
1/  Includes work ....
J  Ilades working capital
3/ Ianlades coosultoits
4/  lualodes provision for audit and trsau6ng eeinSraS
S/ Civilwor-ks:  13% is 1976; 12XIyear it 1977T79;1 11 others: 97, iu 1976; 87./yea  i 1977-79.  Base  88st8  are  at se sid-1976t  ?Y I in october 1976-September 1977.
'Iah oxpoote.d price iuruasu i  J'Y 1 takes  aronat of thu uiuo-uuoth lag bht..en baso co.to sud th. mid-point of n 1.
6/ CFAF 225 = OS$ 1.00



ANM .L0
Table2
CBUD
RUSAL PROJECTS FUJN
POJFCT COSTS, FINANCING AhD IMPLEMTATION SChFDULL
Dstaile of Projeet Finannisg
Yesr 1        Tsar 2        Tsar 3          CF     TtF   a   Ul
------_CFAF MillionM-------------          illion         Thound
l.  IDA and FAC  y
1.1   Porchase of Vehîcles
Sanil-soole irrigation            8.18          3.84         3.84         15.86             70
Pastoral oells                   10.00          -            4.80         14.80             66
Village .ster sopploas           30.50          -             -           30-50            136
Fonder rosd improo .ent          33.60          -             -           33.60            149
Bottoslnid dieelop»ent            7.51         4.66          4.87         17.06             76
BPF Management Unit               2.95          -                          2.95             13
Subtotel                    92.74         8.52         13.51        114.77
of which:  IDA              89.01         C.!          11.77        107.60
FAC              3.73          1.70         1.74           7.17            32
1.2   Purchase of Egoipsent
Sal-scale irrigation             10.71        26.97         39.49         77.17            343
Pastaral sella                   22.44         0.10          2.53         25.07            111
Village ester supplies          i26.4o         7.30          7.30        141.00            627
FRoder rosd improvenent           i.60         0.32          0.32          2.24             10
Anieal fesd/pouîtry              57.60          -             -           57.60            256
RPF Management Unit               2.JL                                    -2..9 .
SutVotai                   220.87        34.69         49.64        305.20          1 356
of shich:  IDA             230           29.30        41            289.34          te
FAC              2.57          5.39         7.90          15.86             70
1.r  Espatriste Staff
Small-ecale irrigation           44.11        44.11         44.11        132.33            588
Pastoral celle                   19.98        19.98         19.98         59.94            267
Village ester supplies           14.20        14.20         14.20         42.60            189
Bottomland development           14.18        14.18         14.18         42.54            189
PFF Managesent Unit              21.51        27.83         40.47         8q..B21        .
Subtotal                   1138         120.30        132.94        367.22            632
of chich:  IDA              98.02       103.08       113.19         314.29          1,396
FAC             15.96         17.22        19.75          52.93           236
1.4   Local Staff
Soell-sctle irrigation            7.50        22.00         40.44         69.94            311
Pastoral oeils                   13.46        13.46         13.46         40.38            179
Village eater supplies             -          19.50         19.50         39.00            174
Foeder rosd isprooesent          1S.94         14.57        14.57         48.08            214
Bottolanid davelopsent            2.19          8.14        13.84         24.17            107
SPF Menagemeet Unit               4.36          4.36         4.36          13.08            58
Subtotal                    46.4         82.03        106.17        234.65          1,4
of chinh    IDA      4       3.          75.13         9Z           213.21            9
FAC               2.81         6.90        11.73          21.44            95
1.5   Cinil Worke
Small-ecale irrigation           23.38        59.91         89.50        172.79            768
Warehou.s.                      182.40       138.90        134.20        455.50          2,024
Pastoral ce11e                   21.02        21.02         21.02         63.o6            280
Village ester supplies           19.60         49.00        49.00        117.60            523
Fesder rosd iaprooe-aet          31.66         31.6?        31.67         95.00            422
Animal feed/poultry              17.20           -            -           17.20             77
Bottuelanid deA lop.ent           0.83          4.12         6.60         11.55             51
Subtotal                   296.o9        3ç.62        331.99         -9             4.147
cf which:  IDA             291.25       291.81        312.77         95.83          3,981
FAC               4.84        12.81        19.22          36.87           164
1.6   Operating cGots  2/
Ssflall-eoale irrigation          9.84        21.13         32.33         63.30            281
Pastoral celle                   12.59        12.59         12.59         37.77            168
Village veter supplies            1.44         13.52        12.05         27.01            120
Feiedr rosd ieproo-eent          55.69         17.39        17.39         90.47            402
Bottossi.d developeent            4.67         13.21        18.98         36.86            164
RPF Management Unit               8.05          8.o5         8.05         24.15            107
Subtotal                    92.28         85.89       101.39        279.56          1,242
of chich:  IDA              87.77         37.41       8.52          254.70          1,132
FAC               4.51         8.48         11.87         24.86           110
Unellocated                     115.79       216.06        352.09        683.94          3 040
of  hich: IDA              10605        19829          317          627.51
FAC               9.74        17,77         28.92         56.43           251
Total                      938.20       852.11      1,087.73      2,918.04         12.969
nf  hich:  IDA             934.04       781.84        986r.       2,702.48         12,011
FAC              44.16        70.27        101.13        215.56           958
2. Beneficiaries
Sosll-sosls irrigation            3.23          9.04        14.86         27.13            121
Village cater supplies            2.16         20.28        21.75         44.19            196
Uallocated                       2.10          6.94        14.71         23.75            106
Total.  .enefin-r-en         72.4         36.26       251,           95.07            42,
Total Finoncing  3/         985.69       888.37      1,139.05     3,013.11         13,392
1, AiC: 20% of Saall-ale irrigation, Bottonleni deoelopnent und BPF Managemnnt init, uonpto fauersr' oc-faon tosotruots
2/ About 90% is for operoting co6ts cf -shicles on] equipent.
3/ Fa-ludis  laotr c..tributsd nolunterily by farmero  n île t osll-suale irrigation ond Bottoland deoloppent
oubprojertt  oalued et CFAF 67 million and CFAF 24 cillion respeoîiooly, exîluiing onlingenuies.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                                Quarterly         Cumulative
and Quarter                                       ---- US$ million----
FY 1977
2nd Quarter                                   0.2               0.2
3rd Quarter                                   0.5               0.7
4th Quarter                                   1.2               1.9
FY 1978
lst Quarter                                   1.3               3.2
2nd Quarter                                   0.7               3.9
3rd Quarter                                   1.2               5.1
4th Quarter                                   1.3              6.4
FY 1979
Ist Quarter                                   0.7               7.1
2nd Quarter                                   0.7               7.8
3rd Quarter                                   1.2               9.0
4th Quarter                                   1.4              10.4
FY 1980
lst Quarter                                   1.0              11.4
2nd Quarter                                   0.4              11.8
3rd Quarter                                   0.2              12.0



ANNEX 10
CHAI)
RURAL PROJECTS FOND
PROJECT COSTS. FIANCING, ARD IHPlLRI14NATION SChODULE
IDA Disbersum t Catetories
cate-orv                                       Estismsted   i/                  A-ouat Alloc.te.                       2 of epeoditur-o
ID& contribution                        _roundedd                         to be f inanced
_--___----__-------   th~ .... ds ------------------
1. Vohielea aad equip.eot for
1.  Snai.-neale irrtigtioo                                             330                               330                                   80# 3/
2   Pastoral utile                                                     177                              180                                  lO%
3.  Village ctaer sopplie                                             763                               780
4.  Fonder rond inprove.ent                                            159                               160
5. Anti-ai feedfpoultry                                                256                              270
i.  Bottol-nd d,,velopseet                                             Gi                                60                                   80%
7.  RPF M-aage-et Ulit                                                  18                                20
Sobtora1                    1,764                            1,800
2   Civil o-k  for
1.  Ssali-senl6 irrigation                                             614                              620                                   80#
2.  Pastoral cell                                                      280                              280                                  100%
3.  Village unter sopplits                                             523                              530
4. FPed -r rond traprovosent                                           422                              430
5. A aial feed/poultry                                                  77                                80
6.  Botto,laod devolopant                                               41                                40                                   80%
S. Warhouses                                                         2 024                            2.020                                  100%
Sobtotal                   L3981                            4__0
3.  Etpt,riate stoff ad ,oasultoots for:
1.  Sali-scaîi irrigation                                              470                              470                                   80%
2.  P         -storal  olis                                            267                              270                                  100%
3.  Village voter supplies                                             189                              190
6.  Bttoal-nd develupoint                                              151                              150
7.  RPF HaMagoea.g t Uloiit                                          -us                                320
Subtotal                    1,396
4. Local staff fr-
1   slî-eenle irrigation                                               249                              240                                   80%
2.   norsl asile                                                       179                              170                                  10
3. Village vtoer supplies                                              174                              160
4.  leder  -ead isprausat                                              214                              200
6.  Bottorland devdlop_nt                                               86                               80                                   80t
7. RPF Mnnageit Uit                                                     46                               50
Sabtotal                      948                              900
S   Operstiag .outa for
1.  Somal-sale irrigation 2/                                            76                               80                                   80c
2   pastoral colla                                                     168                              i6o                                  10%
4   Feeder road io1roveaont                                            402                              41o
6   BSottomlud devolop ent                                             131                              130                                   80X
7   RPF Mae...   ent Unit                                               86                               90
Subtotel                      b'61__
3.  Village ceter oupplias                                             120                                                                    40%
Sobtotal                      983                            l'Mo
6.  Workieg capital for
1.  SUroil-suale irrigation 2/                                                                          200                                  80#
7.  Rfuediog of prujeet preparatioeaduaeced                                 SOi                               500
8.  Uuellu.atod                                                           2.289                            2,200
TOTAL                     12.010                           12.000
1/ A.e.e  10. Table 2
2/  NSt dieaggregetod in Aneee  10, Teble 2  ehoce as US$ 281,000
3/  I:xcluding uc-turc ieveotmet te be teancoc  by farera.



CHAD
RURAL PRO.7ECTS F0N1
PROJECT COlTS. PINANCING AND I2WLEMNTATION SICHEDIIIE
Goveîn,net Cash Flot  1/
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    1980/81    1981182   1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86   1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93   1993/94    1994/95    1995/96
A.  Tinot.
Soport Dalles:
Gallon 2/                               2          8          18          23         25          27          29          31         33           35         14          15          16          17          16          20          25          23          24          26
Liventook 3/                           (7)        (47         (2)          2           6         10          15          20         26           33         57          65          75          85          96         109         116         124         133         142
tIPi Surplus
Gallon 4/                             10          37          81        104         113         123         132         141       151          161          64          69          74          79          84          90          96         103         110        118
Faederîoa.doî/                        10          31          52          67         86          58          42          21         -            -          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -
Indirect Taos...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lil1
111,1VWS, BD                          -            3           7           9         10          il          12          1.3        13           14           7          7           8           899                                 0iil1
Livastoak 7/                           (3)        (2)         (1)          1           3          5           8          il         14           18         31          35          40          46          52          58          8.2         67          72          77
IDA~ Tendit                               934         702         907           -          -           -           --                    -                        ----------
FAC Grat                                    44e        70         101
Ernaijniacjes                  3         ~~~         ~~~        ~            ~          ~~25  30 --  -                     ------------
Total TIfla.                                          950       l~7           206         225         234         238        233        237          261         173         191        213         235          259         286        305         328         330         375
B.tOnflot
lobprojant notr  9/                        906        446       1,139          -           -           -           -           -         -            -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -          -           -
Operollng .os.  10 I/                       -           -           -          70          67          71          76          82        76           82          87          93         100         107         119         123         131         140        150         181
IDA Dbt S.-ite                               4          10         17          20          20          20          20          20        20           20          47         47          47          47          4746                    46          46          46          4
Total Onîflot,                 ~~~~        ~~~990  94 156            90         87          91          9          10         96          102         134         140         147         134         162         169         178619620
C.  Iambe- D f(Or  tInl
A ....l                                      3          52         11.7        1.16       138         143         142         l35~      141          159          39          53          66          81          97         117         128         142        1 54        168.
Con1îtivo                                    3          55        172         288         426         569         711        246        987        1,146      1.185       1,236       1,302       1,383       1,480       1,597         725       1.860         202       2.189
NOTE: Cootinuing nonînt b.4 baron
by bnfca Ils1/
Postora1 tacite 12/                         -                       -          51          92          97          62         67         80          153         141        103           93          94        201          167        119         158         539         294
Village w-tnr spplites 13/                  -           -           -           4           4           S          17          le         6            6          -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -          -
Ona1-soale irrigatIon  34/                 -.-           3          14         33          35          38          40          47        46           49          53          57          61          63          69          74          79          85          91         97
Calai 15/                                    -           3          14         88         131         140         119         126       132          208         194         162         154        159          270         241        194         243         230         391
.I l Iflation taneare as par aqoipe.te: 1976:9%/year; 1977-79:-8%/ yeer; 1981 theteaftnr:7%/yeae.
2/  1975/76 spenîf ic rate ai CEAI' 18.25/kg liaI infleted asaI t! on/  ntton produ...d in a-11l--nle irrigation sahe-sa, and indun.ed by ..srehooses and viIlae  etIer supplies (Aorte 3, ard A...o 5, Tabla 7).
3/  1975/76 sp.eifin rata ai CEA   1,450/head ai narie, lnflsed as aI/ aboya, on Ihon  na...tte eapnrted vis nantrnlled  hanbsals, i.e. 30% ai th. differ.a.na ir cantl offeake b.te.ce  the "ithb" and  'wothnatl' projent sit.atlinas
4/  807  ai 1he apsratlns profil ai Cntontnhad, CEAI' 39,000/Inn tend notIon Un 1975/76, Inflatad ae aI  / on nottr vo1a    sas et 2/.
2/75% a -ef        unr    c     br-fita  noc-eu  to  Cotentohad,  ai  0410h CSPOcer r                         e
6/  Bnneftniariae  epard 007, et inaresetai  .nse  net or Mater ota                   eeeh-no   arroger-ion(SSI) and ai pn-p repaie ond replaneneet fana in village .tata  supplies  (VHS), Un the modem   senIor, tebre the averaga tee rate Os 20%.
ncnnalincones in bnlltnland develpentenî  (BD2) are deflated by the enpeated rata ai decline  ie rire  prîtes  (Amen 8).
7]  Thn bne.fioiarlee are pantoralints maditl la  entamai that thev   er - A cIe]  1, eC   ecrafmeno]tieeeatmer,  a-t o?feat:fnne:rel:                                                   :toO   tl-   -eil   -ateua                  :it,  1e  thn
teniro santon, tabre the avraga ton rate is 20%.
8/Village  teaer nopplins only.
9/  Ennlading farera' aantriholioo ai .nrk on  -nd inpln~.nal  la the unn1sn                      rrigation aabprnjen.t
1loi Par PIC (ON1D8) for snll-e...la irrigation, ard for re-grading ai ieproved feeder rosde.
711/  Nnîtad ont ni Gavernet oash flo-.
12:/  Annen 4, Table 3; oPersting rosIe ai 14e SERARRY unit at Ati plus raplanenent ai napital  itan  et CrAN 36 ni1:in and an  verage of CEAF' 14 million rrspentively fa 1976 nnte tnte.m
13/  AntanS, Tabla 4 (panp raplan-enetr) and Table 6 (pe.sp installatian unit) at  -n average. ann.al ana  ai.t                   CEAI' 6ttitlIoni lu 196 tnIant lets.
14/  Ann-  2, Table 10 (anIn  charges, tnnloding preet.lnu f-r pvap replaaanent).
15/  The aoet diffinnlt charges tb  efore are those relating ta pantara1 -1n1i.  The sn ai thece abeeges thraugh 1995/96 is CEAI' 2,105   ilon                              .e, about equal tn  t4e aseesStrîe surplus ni t4h. vretn  cash flot.                                           M



CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEPErIr'.'f0N SCHEDULEF
Implementation Schedule
1976           1          1977                        1978                      1979
Project Year 1            Proîect Year 2             Project Year 3
Ilars"                       RaFn  «         ~ ~',Ka"                              Rains1 
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION,  '    /                                                       7     '  7            i        '    7                 7  ur/ 4/
Soil Survey                                             ;'/////',                                 
Site Selection and Topography                            ,///  /  _   _7.7  ,.,/7/ /                                                      t _
Construction (No. perimeters/No. service centers)7/               7 /               i      I H)             .   2       'Ha)        (232 2        H
Perimeters Operating <Ha - cumulative)                  /  777  /* 1    )                                            4 7                          H
7  ///  /                 /  '.7' /              - /  ///  /           _       7  77   7
INPUT WAREHOUSES                                           /  ///  7                  7 /'/  /                  /  ///  7
Specification Sites and Contract Lots                   /  //                       ,    /  /                 /   //  /                  7 / //  /
Tender and Award       2/                                                  (3 43 J ' 7'             (25,3) I   /              (24,35)   /  ///  /
Construction (No. @ 90m /No. @ 60m )                       // /                                          61 /  /_   //                      ///  7
Surface Area (m  -cumulative)                           /  ///  /                       "   ' ,59  m                                         n      n
"  """  "        $?  <j  '1~~~I5790 m2      """~(00 2)          2         <14,46
PASTORAL WELLS-BATHA                                       7  ///  /                                                                               6 /7/  <    ||
Pastoral Survey                                              /                          <                     /   //
Equipment Procurement                                   /   //                         (73,3 /                   ///  /     (733>    /  //|
Wells (No. repairs/No. new)                             7  ////              3        /3 /          7            /// 3         (7 3                     r
/  /7// I7                     » - 7/     I     I   /7///   //I7I    /7f 
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLIES                                     7  /// .                   /  /,' '                  7  7/ /      /                    /  7
Inventory and Specification Sites                       /  ///  7                  .7 /'   /                 7  7/7  /       |      |      /           1
Equipment Procurement                                   7  ///  /_                 7 77/  7                  7 /7/  7                    7  /7/   7
Building Construction                                   7  ///  7                  .7 /7.   .       173 60)  /  /7  7          (73 60)  / /7/ 7
Wells (No. repairs/No. tubewells)                       /  /7/  /                  7  /73 /                      7///  /        73          /7    7
/  ///  /           .7/7.7            |/   /7// /7777 //{
FEEDER ROAD IMPROVEMENT                                    /  ///  /             |       .  //              |       ///  7      |      |7/           7
Equipment Procurement                                   /  ///                     7/ 7/  7                  7 /7/  /        I              7     7
Operation of Surfacing Team                             /   /7  7                  .7   /    .7              7   7   7
Operation of Structures Teams                           7  /7/  7                                                /,7/                       /7/i
ANIMAL FEED/POULTRY                                        /  /7/ 7                       /                     7 /7/ 7                    7 /7/ 7
Building Construction                                   7  ///                          /   Y                7  7/     7                 7  /7/ 7
Equipment Procurement                                   /  //                                                .7 _      7 ,                  /7/        I
7  /7/  /                                            7 ,"         /7/// 7       7 /7/// 7
BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT                                     /  /7/  /                                            7  7i/  /
Inventory and Specification Sites                       /  /7  /                                             /7// /                     7  //7
Equipment Procurement                                   "  ""'       _      i25)    /
~~/"  "        <~5)       (25"               7   7/7            40>     7  /7"/7
Construction (No. bottomlands)                          /  //   /                                                i-6 0                      '|'
Operation (Ha - cumulative)                                         / //                                                                    1 |/700)
| R PF M AN AGE M EN T UN I7 /7/   7 /.7  ///                                          |               /7/ 7             |      /7/   7    
RPF MANAGEMENT UNIT7//7/ / // / /
Equipment Procurement                                   7//7                                                           7.../
First Outline of Second RPF                             7  /77  7             i                                        7 /                /7/          I
l~~~~~~~ _Z / Z. ///                                        ..   -   I       /7    '        - I  I                                 ZZ. L/2/ I I /L/}
NOTE
1. Ali annual work programs and budgets for PY2, PY3 to be finally cleared by Sept. 30 of the preceeding year.
2. Procurement of equipment for PY2, PY3 to be initsated in preceeding year so that the equiprnent will he on site by Ocr. 31.
World Bank--15766



ANNEX 11
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
1.        The Fund Management Unit (FMU) will keep annual reports of perform-
ance and measure accomplishments against appraisal estimates. These data
would serve both as an essential management tool during the life of the
project and as a major input to the preparation of any second-phase RPF.
Indicative tables (1-3) have been proposed and would be finalized with the
FMU during the first supervision mission. For each item and for each project
year, the tables provide for the actual performance (A), the estimate made
at appraisal (E), duly inflated, and for (A) as a percentage of (E). The
inflation factors, applied to base costs plus physical contingencies, are:
Civil Works       All Other
1976/77                    1.0775             1.0525
1977/78                    1.224              1.149
1978/79                    1.372              1.241
2.        The FMU would, in addition, prepare quarterly reports on physical
progress and expenditures for submission to IDA. The format of these reports
would be prepared and discussed with FMU during the first supervision mission.



CRAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
REPORTING REQUIREhENTS
Small-scale Irrigation
Unit                       1976/77                                    1977/78                                     1978/79
Actual           Estiste *t      A         Actuel          Estimate at        A         Actual          Estimate at        A
Performance (A)  Appreisal (E)   E        Performance (A)   Appraisal (E)       E      Performance (A)   Apprais,l (E)       E
Construction of perimeterS                No.                                   5                                      14                                             23
Cost per perimeter 1/               CFAF million                                7.53                                    8.40                                           9.26
Construction of service centers           No.                                   1                                       2                                              2
Cost per center 2/                  CFAF million                               12.54                                   14.08                                          15.60
Perimeters operatins                      ha                                  115                                     437                                            966
Participating farmers                     No.                                 460                                   1,748                                          3,864
Area planted:  cotton                     ha                                   58                                     218                                            483
sorghum                   ha                                   58                                     218                                            483
wheat                     ha                                    -                                     218                                            483
other                     ha                                    -
total                     ha                                  116                                     654                                          1.449
Yields:3/ 4/ cotton                      kg/ha                              1,400                                   1,700                                          2,000
sorghum                    kg/ha                              1,000                                   1,250                                          1,500
wheat                      kg/ha                                   -                                  1,600                                          2,000
other                      kg/ha
Water charges paid by farmers: 5/
on 1976/77 perimeters               CFAF million                                                                        3.39                                           3.67
on 1977/78 perimeters                CFAF million                                                                                                                     10.26
on 1978/79 perimeters               CFAF million
Net operating surplus per
family 6/ 7/ 8/
on 1976/77 perimeters               CFAF thousand                               4.3                                     5.9                                           12.0
on 1977/78 perimeters               CFAF thousand                               _                                       4.7                                            6.4
on 1978/79 perimeters               CFAF thousand                               _                                                                                      5.1
Staff costs: 9/ ONDR                CFAF million                                7.63                                   25.45                                          51.38
Genie Rural        CFAF million                               1.45                                    3.62                                           6.34
Technical          CFAF million                              53.40                                   58.28                                          62.95
assistance
other operating costs 10/            CFAF million                               5.88                                    9.47                                          13.39
1/ Annex 2, Table 3; civil works inflation factors on itens 1, 2 and 3.
2/ Annex 2, Table 7.
3/ The date shown relate to perimeters constructed in 1976/77. Additional subtables would be required for each of 1977/78 and 1978/79 perimeters.
4/ Ranges of yields to be indicated.
5/ Annex 2, Table 10.
6/ Annex 2, Table 6; rainy season crops only in Year I for each group of perineters; no water charge and no civil works maintenance in Year I.
7/  Ranges of net operating surpluses to be indicated.
8/ Any effects on rainfed farming income outside the irrigated perimeters to be noted.
9/ Annex 2, Table 8.
10/ Annex 2, Table 9.
Ile



CIAD
RURAL PRUJECTS FUND
REPORTING REQUIREMIENTS
Rorehuosen. Pastoral Rels a-d Villaot WRter Supplies
Unit1976/77_                                1977/78               ____                     1978/79
Actuel          Esttimate et    A          Actuel           Estisste et         À        Renai            Estimats*t          A
Puntuoruuc (A)   Roiaisel (U1  R           Performs nce (A)l  ipurestsi  (E1       e    Petture-ue (A1           i       Oa l E.(A
weretuonsns
Cossattuetion oR q2 wareto9se0           No.                                      33                                         25                                            24
co_sttottion of 6Qm2  irehouses          Nu.                                      47                                          36                                           35
Total *ro . oostteuted                   m2                                    5,790                                      4,410                                         4,260
Cost pe  m2 I/                     CFAF th,,ou,,d                                 33.9                                        38.6                                         43.2
lupertision ts-t 1/                9FAF niliiuu                                    9.37                                       8R08                                           8.78
Ferttliuer theft --vidance            tous                                  uot estiuated                               tut estisteid                                 sot satin ted
Rock btrekege nueidence               tons                                  not entiueted                               tut estiuated                                 nul eetlnated
positerl asalîs
Welis repaired 2/                                                                 73                                          73                                            73
Welis constructed 2/                                                               3                                           3                                             3
Pastutel groupe offticilly               Nu.                                uot etinated                                eut esti-eated                                eut étiuote.d
recognited
Pnrtitipetieg pesttaliats               No.                                 ot ostioated                               not osti-ated                                 n-t entinte.d
WRter uharges paid by
pentoulists 3/   CFAF million                                    -                                           -
sttff cuita 4/: Louai personnel CFAF nillion                                      15.58                                       17.01                                         18.37
Teuheicel assistance 5/   CFAF million                                     23.13                                       25.25                                         27.27
Hatecials 4/                       CFAF millot                                    24.92                                       28.30                                         31.72
Other uperttieg tests 4/           CFAF  titlien                                  14.58                                       15.92                                         17.19
puiules *nd Equipuent              CFAF million                                   34.14                                        0.11                                          9.09
purchese 6/
vilRas  ater  supplies
.Il  repaiNe7 2/                         No3                                                                                                                                73
Tubewlle drilled 2/                     Nu.                                                                                  60                                            60
Tubslls fully iRstolled 2/             Ne.                                                                                  55                                            55
Ctst tonteibuti.s  nade by
benefiui rins                CFAF oillite                                     3.24                                      24.59                                         30.07
Henlth effect imdc  7/                Inder                                                                             set estiuoted                                 n_t  etiaated
Buildiign 8/                       CEAF =illion                                   24.29
VUhicles and Equipmnt              CFAF million                                  165.14                                        8.39                                          9.06
staff  ests: Lou1 per onnel    CFAF nillien                                      1                                           24.45                                         27.83
Techeica-sI     see          CERF million                                  17.19                                       18.76                                         20.27
Moteriols                          CFAF million                                   -                                           68.97                                         77.31
other operstiog coite              CFAF million                                    4.36                                       44.66                                         48.24
Aunen  3, Table 4.2; uttil serts inflation Lettons
j!  A deteiled report  -Iold be filed un .ath well r-paired   -rueustructed
3/  No -ater chorges  -ra  cteduletd te be peid befote 1979/80 bet Goverement may be i  e positiuu te l-y nu-h chnrges ie 1978/79 .ed it ueuldb be bighlv desicabln if it  -ould du s.
4/  ARnne 4, Table 1; ciil munie inflation fectors fer -uairisls
j!  Inuludes oply 50% uf costs ef thie senior ncthuic shu aIse serves the Abhte unit; his other cutu ere shown agaiuat th.e Fll-M eilaell    . . .tesent.
6/ ARoet 4, Table 2.
7/  At opprouiootien might bn ubtible frou di.pensrie                 rerde in th  e            i   the  u.eeell  uolId bo luutlled.
8/  Anune  5  Table 2.



AN 9EX y ' 
Table
CHAD
RURAL PROJECTS FUND
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Feeder Road Improvement. Animal Feed/Poultry and Bottomland Development
Unit                                  1976/77                                    1977/78                                          1978/79
Actual          Estimate at    A          Actual           Estimate at          A           Actual           Estimate at         A
IPerformance (A)   Appraisal (E'  E    Performance (A)   Appraisal (E)             E        Performance (A)   Appraisal CE,j         E
Feeder road improvement
Inclusive length upgraded                 km                                              885
Specific length resurfaced                km                                              450
Specific length regravelled               km                                               60
Structures repaired                       No.                                              20                                       30                                                 30
Vehicle and Equipment purchase 1/  CFAF million                                             37.05
Vehicle and Equiptsent "hire"          CFAF million                                        40.31
Staff costs:  Local personnel          CFAF million                                        22.93                                    19.25                                              20.79
Materials                              CFAF million                                         39.23                                   44.58                                              49.97
Other operating costs                  CFAF million                                          8.95                                   23.40                                              25.29
Animal feed/poultry
Pelleted feed production 2/               tons                                            500                                    1,000                                              1,500
Mineral lick production 3/                tons                                            100                                      200                                                200
Poultry throughput                      thousand                                    not estimated                            not estimated                                      not estimated
Egg throughput                           million                                   not estimated                             not estimated                                      not estimated
Buildings                              CFAF million                                         20.39
Equip=ent                              CFAF million                                        66.69
Bottomland development
Bottomlandsimproved                       No.                                                5                                      25                                                 40
Cost per bottomland 4!                 CFAF thousand                                      567                                      627                                                687
Bottomlands operating                     ha                                                50                                     300                                                700
Participating farmers                     No.                                             250                                    1,500                                              3,500
Area planted:  paddy                      ha                                                50                                     300                                                700
other                    ha
Yields: 5/  paddy                       heg/ha                                          1,200                                    1,200                                              1,200
other                     hg/ha
Net operating surplus per
family 6/
Average                           CFAF thousand                                         5.6                                      6.2                                                6.7
Bottomlands already
cultivated 7/              CFAF thousand                                         3.0                                      3.2                                                3 5
Bottomlands newly cultivated   CFAF thousand                                            8.3                                      9.1                                                9.8
Staff Costs: 8/ Genie Rural            CFAF million                                          1.86                                    5.34                                               7.11
ONDR                 CFAP million                                          0.79                                    5.42                                              12.64
'rechnical           CFAF million                                         17.16                                   18.73                                              20.24
assistance
Other operating costs                  CFAF million                                          3.85                                    7.57                                              10.02
I/ Annex 6, Table 4.
2/ Incremental, full capacity by 1978/79.
3/ Total, in line with Swiss-financed distribution program.
4/ Annex 8, Table 2; civil vorks inflation factore on materiale.
5/ Assumed that full yielda would be obtasied On the first year of operation of esab botlomland. Ranges of yields t0 be indicmted.
6/  Ranges to be indicated.
7/ Incremental.
S/ Annex 8, Table 1.






_________________ s      ,  ,   _    ", "j,   _,,,, "    ,        ,   ;   5,       ,              BRD_2057
N             K~~~~~~~~~~~I
sv    z\î 0            N               L     B Y A --1t- < X       X   -       i AR.EC
' ' t \ g OCH  D                                                                      r    ,7,   ,  
À; '  t    :          , ~s          RURAL PROJECT FUND                               -
t                               v r  J   >    -    X  1   SUBPROJECT AREAS
BORKOU- ENNEDI -TIl ESTI
AFRICA       w  o                                   - <+
N     ,       J                                                                i ...Xt
.                .                                               FAO                           r  à 
NIGER/
PASTO RAL \VLS        l,XINE E                  c
t~~ ~~~~ ~~~~                                                                    ~~~ KA N EE  M
S~~~~~ -   ,                                           ->                   _____
S    DJAMENA  CARl'm..                                  .j,.~Y~ 
j        '. .  ;.¢$\BAGUIRM           I /                          -MI
7  f        4,, ''' ;e    r +5EN    /G U
0 :TN                                                                     t j \ pV95 [e d if X C XTA    J
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
C,    7=                           CEN AI AFRICA N RÉPUUC'                                         XÀ> -  - - -- -AF






IBRD 12058
;,  LAREt t                ~~     ~      ~~~~~19                       0                         MARCH 1°76
j,,,`.,-s,_, ,w   z/       v/",-'<  -vos     \  S~~~~~~ireI  B A r H A   /b< _ _           °c A
' 1 / ,,- 3` t - 9 // ,) / )~~~~~~~~~~~~ RURAL PROJECT FUND
`, ,,J'A>à `/*\ Mossgue8'»,.'' ~~\ Bokoog~~- /- S//_Subprojects in Southern Chad
,  _   j   --  -               / \   a      /              /    {   F   /      \    /   *r99.-.r:r) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feeder roud ImProvement
S .é N'DJAMENA > X ,@ /__OuMONG 1 \\\\\: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Village water supplies
-12-           t          /S\-                                                     Cs                     /       / --   '+*   ottom land development            1-
N IGE RK-A'     I<ud,ol\9_                              /       3       (>T\J                               /           %a$  SmOll sccale irrigôtion
(   MondéliX j   >   ,', , Ç  UJ_ { >_>  \  _   <  _     r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~À \rl   9800    Wurehouses (numberses  ofr er of
.) Y . \ _ \ //,/ \ j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / j \ ) 7ao ~~~~~~~~~~~Isohyets (miffimeters)
/   v -  t  hsOU9oumen   ; -- ;; -iMASSENYA  >>  t     G  ~~~~~~~~UlJ E  R  A   |    b  eo     `      All-weather roads:
P / qo> ,2kr }4lUo>S -- ....... t / <\ / j \ / u Secondary~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secodar
ÂAMondinla   /  0>__    ,_.   >      9 /   7      >     $    <            ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prinnory
s ° Q  $"us9où9tu   E/        2      I                    t              1         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
CAMEROON    taXX  " <`V; `e > X  ' /   -   |  1/ô                   \       ___- f  oSaRH Prefecture crpital~~~~~~~~~C)SRH  refetur cciita
e X S --> ; , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prefecture  boundanies
<",__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nentoa boundaries )  ,, 
0-   X    /   <<LuX\-<`.`\S```\`;'       `-,,         X S       I             `N    f       ?L 'E
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h h






IBRD 12059R
_  ;                                            laB                          #~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  T.Fe,.          20°                                                         2'2'                                            JUNE 1976
0  20  40  610  80  100  120                                                                                                                                                      RURAL PROJECT  FUND
KILOII^ETERS                                                        /                                                                       ___ -O    Pastoral Wells-Batha Reg ion
0       20        40       60       ao                                                                                                                 -
MILES                                                   '                                                                                                      O 5Ground wrter depth (meters)
7 '                                Zone where ground woter depth not surveyed
200--  Isohyets (miflimEterS)
k                                                                                                                  O !  t  I  *   Wel6s reconstructed and repoired
4N                                                                                                                                  i ,/                           o   Wells ta be repaired
"l IJ                               Seosonal rocdsi
Primary
~~~~-\-                                               i                           ----  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondairy
-16-                                                                           ,     )                                                                                                              Ri v ers                                       I°
j  \~~~~~~~~~                                        .--- ~~~~~~~~~~~ 0A   Prefecture capitals
'- '''.. I  '\                           'i`        '`~''                   ----Prefecture  boundruries
1   /._*_. Internotional boundory
K  A  N   E  M                                                                                                                   1 = j B L   T   I  N   E                              ibo
0x~~~~~                                B      A o    T        H      AB 'NE                                                                   -                                       D A 
1J,                                                                                                                                                                                                   )                                            14-e.
b   ~~~~~~~~Y-.,-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              \.~izioboe                                                                                                                hi, C   HAD
;30      0                           '0   (u,re,'-0          -,           0            -                                                                                                                                                 r
[~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                                                                     c'                                              ( SUDMS<r          ~~         `  b--b- ,t, ,8uM 
(                                                                                                                                              'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
"  CH  RI                                                                                               -                                                                    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         D~
bc   (IlIRMI                    NOo<~                                      '.2       .50                  /MO~anIr?                                                bGo`  Beide`  `   
10         <                I             -~    1?~  Sz~~O\MONG <L 20 e                                                                                                                  2                                  6.N6E*1J6t



