CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 664 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Rural Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 8, 19T6


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) through an exchange of letters dated September 9/October 11,
1976, between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has
granted to the Borrower a project preparation advance (hereinafter
called the Project Preparation Advance) in an amount not exceeding
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to assist in financing
technical assistance services, local staff salaries, civil works,
the purchase of vehicles and equipment, and related expenses which
are required to finalize the preparation of the Project and to
ensure timely beginning of Project implementation;
(C) the Borrower has also requested from the Fonds d'Aide
et de Coopgration of the Republic of France (hereinafter called
FAC) a grant (hereinafter called the FAC Grant) in an aggregate
principal amount of four million three hundred ten thousand French
Francs (FF4,310,000) to assist in the financing of Parts A and G
through I of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the FAC Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and FAC; and


﻿2-
(D) the FAC has already 7,4 available to the Borrower part
of the proceeds of the FAC Grant to assist in financing technical
assistance services, local staff salaries and related operating
costs required to finalize preparation of Part A of the Project
and to ensure timely beginning of the implementation of said Part
of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEPT" means the Ministry of Economy, Planning and
Transport of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b) "MAPD" means the Ministry of Agricultural and Pastoral
Development of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "MEMG" means the Ministry of Engineering, Mining and
Geology of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "ONDR" means Office National du Dgveloppement Rural,
an agency of the Borrower under the jurisdiction of MAPD, estab-
lished pursuant to Ordinance No. 26/PR of July 23, 1965, as such
Ordinance may be amended from time to time, or any successor to
ONDR;


﻿(e) "Ggnie Rural" means a department of MAPD, or any succes-
sor thereto;
(f) "SERARHY" means Service des Am4nagements Ruraux
d'Hydraulique, an agency of the Borrower under the jurisdiction
of MAPD, established pursuant to Ordinance No. 4/PR/Agri of Feb-
ruary 26, 1968, as such Ordinance may be amended from time to
time, or any successor to SERARHY;
(g) "CMPA" means Centre de Modernisation des Productions
Animales, an agency rof the Borrower under the jurisdiction of
MAPD, established pursuant to Decree No. 24/PR of February 12,
1970, as such Decree may be amended from time to time, or any
successor to CMPA;
(h) "COTONTCHAD" means Societe Cotonniere du Tchad, a com-
pany established and operating under the laws of the Borrower and
registered in the Registre du Commerce of the Borrower with number
12/B/72 on November 1, 1971;
(i) "PIC" means Perimetres Irrigugs du Chari, a subdivision
of ONDR, or any successor thereto;
(j) "BDT" means Banque de Dgveloppement du Tchad, a bank
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance
No. 1, dated January 13, 1962, as amended, or any successor thereto;
(k) "RPF Account" means the Rural Projects Fund Account to
be established in BDT in accordance with Section 3.02 (c) of this
Agreement;


﻿-5-
(1) "FMU" means the Fund Management Unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(m) "DPW" means the Directorate of Public Works, a department
of MEMG, or any successor thereto;
(n) "First Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
dated June 28, 1974, as amended, entered into between the Borrower
and the Association in connection with the Second Highway Project;
(o) "CSPC" means Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton,
the cotton price stabilization fund of the Borrower, established
pursuant to Ordinance No. 16/PR of August 3, 1968, as such Ordinance
may be amended from time to time, or any successor to CSPC; and
(p) "Cotton Zone" means the cotton growing areas in the
Borrower's Pr4fectures of Logone Oriental, Logone Occidental, Mayo
Kebbi, Moyen Chari and Tandjile.


﻿-6                                   0
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of th Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to it-
self the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
automatically be cancelled on the same date.
(c) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the RPF Ac-
count an initial amount not exceeding $500,000 equivalent and shall


﻿-7-
thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, further withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit in the RPF Account such amounts as
shall be required to reimburse FMU for payments made out of the
RPF Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for financing
under this Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount of
any such deposit, together with any amount on deposit in the RPF
Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $500,000 or such other amount as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(c) of this Section, no further deposit shall be made to the RPF
Account and no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit
Account when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from the
Credit Account pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (c) of this Section,
together with the amount of any special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Con-
ditions, shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of
$11,500,000 or such other amount as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit in excess of
the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, if and
only to the extent that the Association shall have been satis-
fied that all payments were made by FMU out of the RPF Account
for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the Credit Account.


﻿-8-
(f) If the Association shall have determined that payments
have been made by FMU out of the RPF Account for expenditures
not eligible for withdrawal from the Credit Account, the Borrower
shall, upon notice from the Association, deposit in the RPF Account
an amount equal to the amount of such payments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15, commencing March 15, 1987, and ending September 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 15, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-10                                     0
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) ONDR to carry
out Parts A, B and G (ii) of the Project; (ii) SERARHY to carry
out Parts C and D of the Project; (iii) COTONTCHAD to carry out
Part E of the Project; (iv) CMPA to carry out Part F of the Proj-
ect; (v) GSnie Rural to carry out Part G (i) of the Project; and
(vi) IMU to carry out Parts H and I of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
0
(b) The Borrower shall cause all its departments and agencies
responsible for the carrying out of any Part of the Project to co-
operate effectively with FMU in the execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain within MEPT an ade-
quately staffed Fund Management Unit (FMU) whose organization,
functions and responsibilities shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; (b) appoint (i) after consultation with the Association,
as head of FMU a Fund Manager; and (ii) as his alternate a Deputy
Fund Manager whose qualifications and experience shall be satis-
factory to the Association; (c) establish and maintain in BDT an
account (hereinafter called the RPF Account) in the name of FMU
and shall cause FMU to utilize the RPF Account in accordance with
the following provisions: (i) there shall be credited to the RPF


﻿- 11 -
Account such amounts as shall from time to time be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited in the RPF Account by the Associ-
ation pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, together
with such amounts as shall be deposited by the Borrower in the
RPF Account pursuant to Section 2.02 (f) of this Agreement; and
(ii) amounts deposited in the RPF Account in accordance with (i)
above shall be used only to make payments for expenditures eligible
for withdrawal from the Credit Account; and (d) cause FMU to make
available, as and when needed, by way of grants to COTONTCHAD and
the various agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying
out of the Project, the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
paragraph (c) (i) of this Section.
Section 3.03. In order to ensure efficient coordination in
the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall establish
and maintain an Interministerial Governing Committee whose member-
ship shall include the General Directors of MEPT, MAPD and MEMG
and whose organization, functions and respbnsibilities shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the
Project the Borrower shall: (a) cause Ggnie Rural to assist ONDR
in carrying out the necessary irrigation layout and works; (b)
cause ONDR to appoint (i) an agronomist to be head of PIC; (ii)
an irrigation agronomist; and (iii) a specialist in the organiza-
tion of input supply and extension services, all with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Association; and (c)
cause Ggnie Rural and PIC to submit to the Association for its
approval, through FMU, their respective annual work programs not
later than two months before the beginning of each fiscal year,
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association.


﻿-12-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause Ggnie Rural to assist
ONDR in supervising the construction of the warehouses referred
to in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purpose of carrying out Part G (i) of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause Ggnie Rural to appoint a
rural engineer to be responsible for the management of bottomland
development and to have qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause SERARHY to appoint
two drilling foremen to be responsible for the supervision of the
works to be carried out under Parts C and D of the Prolect, re-
spectively, and to have qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause FMU to submit to the
Association for its approval, not later than three months from
the Effective Date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association, a monitoring and reporting system
established for the purpose of reporting to the Association, in a
form satisfactory to the Association and in a timely manner, on
the progress of the Project.
Section 3.09. In order to assist FMU in carrying out Part H
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qual-
ifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.10. For the purpose of carrying out the training
programs referred to in Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause FMU to: (a) approve the curricula of seminars and the selec-
tion of participants proposed by ONDR, SERARHY and Ggnie Rural;
and (b) submit to the Association, for its approval, the said
curricula.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) after the first
year of operation of each irrigation perimeter under Part A of
the Project, set and collect from the beneficiaries of such peri-
meter water charges at levels sufficient to ensure the recovery
of part of the annual operating and maintenance costs of such
perimeter, ie., the costs of,fuel, lubricants and pump repairs
and, through the operation of a sinking fund, pump replacement
after six years; and (ii) finance the other operating costs of
PIC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ONDR to make available the nec-
essary agricultural inputs to cotton growers in the irrigation
perimeters referred to in Part A of the Project upon terms and
conditions consistent with those applicable to cotton growers in
other areas of the Borrower's territory.
Section 3.12. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall, not later than two months before the beginning of
each fiscal year or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, submit to the Association for its approval, an annual
well maintenance, repair, construction and reconstruction program
to be based on the recommendations of a range and pastoral survey
to be completed by the Borrower not later than June 30, 1977,


﻿or such other date.as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 3.13. (a) Upon completion of the wells included in
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall finance the operating
costs of the SERARHY base.
(b) Not later than two years from the Effective Date of
this Agreement, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its
approval, its proposals for cost recovery from beneficiaries of
said wells who shall be pastoral groups officially recognized by
the Borrower and who shall be granted land use and watering rights,
such proposals to be based on the recommendations of the survey
referred to in Section 3.12 of this Agreement and of a livestock
taxation study to be completed by the Borrower not later than
December 31, 1976, or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.14. In carrying out Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than two months before the beginning
of each fiscal year or such other date as shall be agreed with
the Association, submit to the Association for its approval an
annual well repair and tubewell installation program.
Section 3.15. (a) Before starting vork for the installation
or rehabilitation of any well included in Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause the future beneficiaries of such well
to make a cash contribution covering not less than 10% of the
capital costs thereof.


﻿-15 -
(b) Upon completion of any well included in Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall set and collect from the beneficiaries
of such well charges at levels sufficient to cover the full cost
of pump repairs and renewals.
Section 3.16. For the purpose of carrying out Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause COTONTCHAD to enter into a con-
tract with DPW which shall be an extension of the contract referred
to in Section 3.05 of the First Development Credit Agreement,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.17. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause DPW to submit to the Association for its
approval, through FMU, its annual work program not later than
two months before the beginning of each fiscal year or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 3.18. The Borrower shall cause the feeder roads re-
ferred to in Part E of the Project to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly,
all in accordance with sound engineering and economic standards,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the necessary funds out of
CSPCs revenues, together with the facilities, services and other
resources required for such purposes.
Section 3.19. In carrying out Part G (i) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause Ggnie Rural to submit to the Association for
its approval, through FMU, its annual work program not later than
two months before the beginning of each fiscal year or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association.


﻿- 16 -
Section 3.20. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.21. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause COTONTCHAD and the Bor-
rower's agencies responsible for carrying out the Project to
maintain records adequate to record the progress of the parts
the Project (including the cost thereof) for which they are re-
sponsible and.to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)


﻿- 17 -
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.22. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed,
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.23. For the purposes of carrying out the Project,
*        the Borrower shall cause ONDR, SERARHY, COTONTCHAD and Genie Rural
to employ such additional staff as shall be required to enable
them to discharge their respective functions and responsibilities
with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿-18                                       0
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause ONDR, SERARHY, COTONTCHAD, CMPA and G4nie Rural
to establish and maintain separate accounts for the purposes of
the Parts of the Project for which they are responsible;
(b) cause the Government Financial Controller to audit the
accounts established pursuant to (a) above in accordance with ap-
propriate auditing principles consistently applied; and
(c) cause FMU to: (i) establish and maintain a Consolidated
Project Account with sub-accounts for each Part of the Project,
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section, in addition to the
RPF Account established pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agree-
ment; (ii) have such Project Account and RPF Account for each fis-
cal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,


﻿-19 -
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such Project Account and RPF
Account as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such Project-Account and RPF Account
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause ONDR, SERARHY, CMPA
and COTONTCHAD to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
.w.. ..


﻿-20                                    0
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower's Ordinance No. 26/PR, dated July 23, 1965,
Ordinance No. 4/PR/Agri, dated February 26, 1968, or Decree No.
24/PR, dated February 12, 1970, establishing ONDR, SERARHY and
CMPA, respectively, or the statutes of COTONTCHAD shall have been
amended, suspended, repealed or waived in such a way as to mate-
rially and adversely affect the ability of ONDR, SERARHY, CMPA or
COTONTCHAD, respectively, to carry out their respective responsi-
bilities with respect to the implementation of the Project;
(b) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
ONDR, SERARHY, CMPA and COTONTCHAD or for the suspension of their
operations; and
(c) subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph:
(i) the funds to be provided under the FAC Grant
Agreement shall not become available as and when
needed for Parts A and G through I of the Project,
or the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of any other grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
wl


﻿-21-
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(iii) subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that: (A) the event spe-
cified in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in para-
graphs (a), (b) or (c) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
Isk


﻿-22                                     0
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) FMU has been established in accordance with Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) the Fund Manager has been appointed in accordance with
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) the Interministerial Governing Committee has been estab-
lished in accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(d) the RPF Account has been established in accordance with
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(e) assurances satisfactory to the Association have been
received by the Association in respect of the availability of the
financing to be provided under the FAC Grant Agreement.
Section 6,02. The date March 8, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
i. ... .


﻿-23 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Planning and Transport
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy,
Planning and Transport
N'Djamena
Republic oC Chad
Cable address:
MINIPLAN
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-24-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By Is/ Bawoyeu Alingue
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-25-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
.      expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
*      (a) under Parts            700,000           80%
A and G of
the Project
(b) under other          3,300,000           100%
Parts of the
Project
(2) Equipment, vehicles:
(a) for Parts A (ex-       400,000           80%
cept for on-farm
investments) and
G of the Project
(b) for other Parts      1,400,000           100%
of the Project
(3) Salaries of expa-
triate staff and
consultants' ser-
vices:


﻿-26                                     0
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(a) under Parts A,           900,000         80%
G and H of the
Project
(b) under other              500,000         100%
Parts of the
Project
(4) Salaries of the
local Project staff:
(a) of FMU, ONDR             400,000         80%
and G6nie Rural
(b) of SERARHY and           500,000         100%
COTONTCHAD
(5) Operating costs
(other than salaries):
(a) of FMU (includ-          300,000         80%
ing training
seminars for
Project staff
and audit)
and under Parts
A and G of the
Project
(b) under Parts C            600,000         100%
and'E of the
Project
(c) under Part D of          100,000         40%
the Project


﻿-27 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Farm inputs required           200,000         80%
for the first year
of crop production
in the perimeters
referred to in Part
A of the Project
(7) Refunding of                   500,000
Project Prepara-
tion Advance
(8) Unallocated                  2,200,000
TOTAL      12,000,000
0


﻿-28-
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) in respect of pay-
ments made for expenditures under Part A of the Project until the
agronomist referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (i) has been appointed
by ONDR; (c) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Parts C and D of the Project until the two drilling foremen re-
ferred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement have been appointed
by SERARHY; and (d) in respect of payments made for expenditures
under Part G (i) of the Project until the rural engineer referred
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement has been appointed.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category or Sub-category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures


﻿- 29 -
in that Category or Sub-category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category or Sub-category, to
the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category or
Sub-category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-30                                    0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Development and initial operation of about 42 small-
scale pump irrigation perimeters (covering a total area
of about 970 ha) and about 5 service centers along the
northern Chari River.
Part B:   Construction of about 200 warehouses covering a total
area of about 15,000 m2 at existing cotton markets.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of a pastoral well network comprising
about 300 lined wells in the Batha Pr4fecture, in the
Sahelian Zone.
Part D:   Establishment and initial operation of a tubewell dril-
ling and open well maintenance unit, to serve villages
in the Cotton Zone and to be responsible, inter alia,
for the rehabilitation of about 146 lined wells and the
installation of about 110 tubewells to be operated by
foot pumps.
Part E:   Improvement, through selective regravelling and spot
resurfacing, of about 1,200 km of feeder roads in the
Cotton Zone.
M


﻿-31-
Part F:   Construction of buildings for, and provision of equip-
ment to, the animal-feed production and poultry products
unit operated by CMPA, near N'Djamena.
Part G:   (i) Land improvements and water control works on about
700 ha of bottomlands in the Cotton Zone.
(ii) Operation of the facilities constructed under Part
G (i) of the Project.
Part H:   Identification and preparation of future small rural
projects to be financed through FMU.
Part I:   Training of the senior field staff of ONDR, SERARHY and
Ggnie Rural involved in the implementation of the above-
mentioned Parts of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1979.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the purchase
of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Contracts referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be grouped
so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent with ap-
propriate technical and procurement practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works required for the Project (other than the construc-
tion of buildings under Parts B and F of the Project) shall be car-
ried out by force account.
2.   Contracts estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or more but
less than $50,000 equivalent may be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures acceptable to the As-
sociation.
3.   Items estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may be
procured on the basis of local shopping.
wI


﻿-33-
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower
may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify, as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines, and applicants for
qualification applying also for such preference shall be asked to
provide, as part of the data for qualification, such information,
including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Bor-
rower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 34-
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association;
Review of Invitations to Bid and of Proposed Awards
and Final Contracts
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recoinmenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.


﻿- 35 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract costing $10,000 equivalent or
more but less than $50,000 equivalent, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The As-
sociation shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and let in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3 of Part B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract.


