Report No. PID11135
Project Name             BRAZIL-TOCANTINS RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE (@)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Roads & highways (50%); Sub-national
government administration (25%);
General public administration sector
(25%)
Project ID               P060573
Borrower(s)              STATE OF TOCANTINS
Implementing Agency
STATE INFRASTRUCTURE SECRETARIAT
SEINF-TO
Address:
Contact Person: Eng. Silvio Leao
Tel: 55-63-218 1633
Fax: 55-63-218 1690
Email: leao@seinf.to.gov.br
State Planning and Environment
Secretariat
Contact Person: Dr. Ricardo Dias
Tel: 55-63-218 1150
Email: ricdias@seplan.to.gov.br
Environment Category     A
Date PID Prepared        October 31, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 1, 2002
Bank Approval Date       January 28, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
State Geography. The state of Tocantins was created under the 1988
constitution, by separating the northern part of the state of Goias. It
was incorporated into Brazil's northern region; it is part of the
so-called "Legal Amazonia". But it is actually a zone of transition
between the high plains of the Center-West cerrados to the south and the
humid plains of eastern Amazonia to the northeast. The physical aspects of
the state are characterized by two major rivers, the Araguaia, which flows
along the state's western borders with Mato Grosso and Para, and the
Tocantins. The climate is tropical, hot and humid, with a dry season from
June to October. Most of the state's territory is covered with savanna
(cerrado); small areas of tropical rain forest remain along the Araguaia
river, and areas of semi-decidual forests remain in the North and the
Southeast. The state is sparsely populated with a population of 1.2
million over an area of 290,000 km2.
Economy. The main economic activity has been extensive cattle farming
together with traditional subsistence agriculture. Recently, however,
commercial agriculture has developed in the central and southwestern
regions. The Prodecer program, with assistance from Japan, is contributing
to expand soybean production in the central region; and the Rio Formoso



program is helping increase irrigated cultivation of rice and other crops
in the southwest. With its vast areas of farmable land, abundant water
resources, and a favorable climate, many regions of the state have good
natural conditions for sustainable agriculture.    The state's economic
development objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural and meat
production, through the development of an economically and
environmentally-sustainable agriculture where feasible and protection of
fragile ecosystems; (b) expand the agro-industrial sector and promote
exports; and (c) develop tourism activities as a complement to
environmental conservation programs. The Government's strategy emphasizes
the creation of a business environment conducive to private sector
investment in regions or program areas with proven potential for
sustainable agriculture, cattle-farming and/or tourism. It promotes the
decentralization of the decision-making process for public investment,
seeking to involve the key stakeholders and to build public-private
partnerships in support of regional and local priorities.
Poverty. Tocantins is the seventh poorest state in Brazil. The state's
average per capita income is about R$1,900 (US$500 equivalent) p.a., well
below Brazil average of about US$3,000 p.a.. A large proportion of the
state population (56W) is living under the poverty line with an income of
less than R$100 (US$26 equivalent) per month; and 25t are actually living
under the extreme poverty line, with less than half this income. Poverty
is worse in rural areas, with 68t of the rural population living under the
poverty line. Tocantins is one of Brazil's most equal state, with a Gini
coefficient of .56. The state's municipal index of human development
(IDH-M) is estimated at .56 (on the basis of 1991 data, to be updated as
soon as the 2001 data become available), well below Brazil average (.74)
and below the median of the Brazilian states (.67). This composite index
combines various socioeconomic indices which reflect education, access to
health, water and other basic infrastructure services. There are also
significant regional disparities. For example, the northern region of the
state has a per capita income of less than US$300 equivalent p.a. and its
IDH-M is less than .40. The poorest regions of the state (which are
included in the proposed projects) are among the poorest regions in
Brazil.
Infrastructure. The lack of basic infrastructure, however, has been a
bottleneck to the more rapid development of the state's agricultural
potential. When created, the state had only 300 km of paved roads
besides the Brasilia - Belem federal highway. Over 4,000 km have now been
paved; and with the gradual improvement of navigation on the Tocantins
river and the construction of the North-South railway, the competitiveness
of the state's agriculture is expected to further increase. But there are
still regions with sustainable development potential which do not have
all-weather access to the trunk network. And many rural communities do not
have all-weather access to municipal centers. Access to energy has been
limited to the main towns and to their vicinity. With the completion of
the hydropower plant at Lajeado and with the ongoing rural electrification
program, however, access to energy will be substantially increased in most
regions. But expanding the economic infrastructure to new areas with
potential for sustainable development and ensuring effective and equitable
delivery of infrastructure services to rural communities remains a key
priority in the Government's strategy.
- 2-



Environment. Most of the state falls into the "Cerrado" (savanna) biome
of central Brazil, which is generally suitable for cattle ranching and
agriculture, but the latter usually only after heavy investments in soil
correction and, in certain places, irrigation, and only where land forms
are suitable. Fruit production is also an alternative in the Cerrado. So
far, the predominant land use has been ranching, and agriculture has
developed only more recently (soybean, maize, rice, etc.) on about 2t of
the state's area. The northern region is at the transition to the Amazon
biome, with denser rain forest, much of which has already been cleared.
It has somewhat better conditions for agriculture than the Cerrado
sub-regions, particularly for cultivation of perennial crops. It has been
the focus of intense land conflicts and also of land reform settlement
efforts in the past. It also provides income to many poor families as a
source of extractivist products, such as babassu nuts. The main concern
is with degradation of soils from unsustainable production, alteration of
hydrological regimes and clearing of remaining forests, including gallery
forests. The thinly populated, sandy and dry Jalapao region in the
central-eastern portion of the state is recognized as fragile and having
low potential for either ranching or agriculture, and is likely to be used
only for some fruit production, ecosystem protection and tourism. The
southeast of the state shows a highly diverse mosaic of land use. Soils
have little fertility, but are suitable for ranching and some limited
agriculture in short rotations. Several small areas have been proposed
for ecosystem protection. A main concern in this region is soil erosion.
The agro-ecological zoning of the state (ZEE), which was prepared under
the state highway management highway project (SHMP) and is being detailed
in the northern region under the natural resources policy project (NRPP)
is an important instrument for the preparation of the Government's
regional development programs. It is among the best efforts to date among
Brazilian States to survey, map and document the physical characteristics
of the various sub-regions. As a result, Tocantins has produced a
remarkably clear vision of future land use, albeit in broad categories and
at a small scale, including areas slated for some form of ecosystem
protection. Progress was made in preparing for the zoning implementation
under the NRPP, including building up some environmental management
capacity in pilot municipios in the Bico do Papagaio and preparing the
more detailed zoning of the region through a participatory process.
The Government's environmental strategy, which is based on the lessons
learned under the above pilot projects, is to effectively implement the
zoning through a mix of economic instruments, regulations, licensing,
supervision and monitoring activities. It particularly involves
consolidating and expanding the state's environmental protection system,
refining the agro-ecological zoning instruments, strengthening land use
and water resource monitoring, rehabilitating and/or preserving riparian
forest, and consolidating existing and establishing new ecosystem
protection areas, in part under this project. The areas proposed by the
state for ecosystem/biodiversity protection are generally in line with the
priority areas identified by the 1998 biome-level workshop for the Cerrado
funded by GEF through the Bank. Priorities under the NRPP will now focus
on completing the detailed zoning of the Bico de Papagaio region, on
building up an environmental capacity in 10 pilot municipios, on preparing
master plans in two pilot municipios, and on designing appropriate
economic instruments to support the zoning implementation. The RPRP will
-3 -



build on the experience developed under the NRPP and the PPG7
Demonstration Projects by providing adequate training and technical
assistance to communities and municipal councils for sustainable
production projects, and will provide incentives, in the form of a reduced
community cost share, for a new category of projects which aim at the
recuperation of degraded areas and the sustainable use of natural
resources.
State Fiscal Situation. The fiscal situation of the state is sound and,
when compared to all other states in Brazil, it looks very comfortable.
The state administration has consistently generated a primary surplus.
Tax revenues have more than doubled from 1996 to 2001. The state has
reduced its wage bill to 34% of net revenues, well below the maximum 60%
specified by the Fiscal Responsibility Law. As a consequence, the state
has managed to increase its investments from its own resources while
containing its borrowings. The total debt (less than R$600 million)
represents about 40% of the state's net revenues including federal
transfers (about R$1.5 billion in 2001), and it is serviced and paid
normally. This favorable debt situation, which results from the young age
of the state, contrasts with the heavy debts of most other states.
Development Framework. The Government prepared a comprehensive
development framework for the State (PPA 2000-2003), consistent with the
PPA for the Federation. The new administration, which will take office on
January 1, 2003, will prepare a new PPA for 2004-2007, but the State
Governor-elect indicated that the broad objectives and policies of the
previous administration will be continued. The State PPA emphasizes
freedom of initiative and social justice, environmental sustainability,
and a broad participation of all segments of society in the development
process. It is structured around five major objectives:
Promote sustainable economic growth, with priority to the agricultural,
agro-industrial and eco-tourism sectors;
Reduce poverty, social inequity, and regional disparities;
Consolidate the state's infrastructure, particularly in the transport and
energy sectors;
Strengthen the public administration, emphasizing sound fiscal management;
and
Enforce human rights and reduce crime and violence.
For each of these objectives, the PPA specifies policies, programs and
budgets. Overall, there are 144 state programs of an aggregated cost of R$
11 billion over four years. About half of this amount is expected to come
from private sources, 35% from the state budget, 8% from the federal
budget, and 7% from borrowings. The state resources would be allocated
primarily and equally to the social and infrastructure programs (about 40%
each), to support economic growth (15%) and to public administration and
safety (5%).
The Government's strategy to achieve both sustainable economic growth
and reduction of poverty and regional disparities emphasizes increasing
the productivity of sustainable agriculture in poverty-targeted program
areas with proven potential for sustainable development, and the
competitiveness of their products. This is to be achieved through a mix of
public infrastructure (mainly transport and rural electrification),
community infrastructure and microfinance, environmental conservation, and
social programs, which include programs aimed at eradicating illiteracy,
- 4 -



improving labor qualification, increasing schooling and the quality of
primary education, and at improving water and sanitation.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to contribute to raising living
standards and to reducing inequalities and regional disparities by
improving access to markets, job opportunities, infrastructure and social
services for rural communities in Tocantins' poorest regions, while
ensuring sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of
fragile ecosystems. This development objective is fully in line with the
Government's development strategy, designed for a state in the process of
consolidating its institutions and public expenditures programs (the state
has been created 12 years ago, following separation from the state of
Goias), and developing its economic potential (since its creation, the
state has underwent an economic growth of 60-, and economy is expected to
continue growing principally on the basis of agricultural and
agro-industrial production, as well as eco-tourism).
The Tocantins Rural Infrastructure Project (TRIP) was designed and will
be implemented within the Government's comprehensive development framework
(the Plano Pluri-anual, PPA) and within a clear strategic framework for
all Bank activities in Tocantins, which also include an ongoing Natural
Resources Policy Project (NRPP) under the Pilot Program to Conserve the
Brazilian Rainforest (PPG7) and a proposed Tocantins Rural Poverty
Reduction Project (TRPRP). The strategic framework emphasizes: (i)
building decentralized, multisectoral planning processes with effective
participation of the poor, and public-private partnerships for better
delivery of infrastructure services and an improved investment climate;
(ii) implementing the agro-ecological zoning of the state, as an
instrument for targeting public infrastructure investments, for guiding
the decentralized planning processes, for establishing ecosystem
conservation units, and for licensing public and private investments; and
(iii) promoting environmentally, socially and economically sustainable
activities which generate employment and income for the poor through
sustainable use of natural resources. In implementing the latter
objective, the projects will build on and disseminate the lessons learned
from pilot subprojects under the NRPP.
The two new projects will target the same four regions of the state, i.e.
the North (Bico do Papagaio), the Northeast (Goiatins - Pedro Afonso), the
East (Jalapao), and the Southeast (Arraias, Dianopolis, Natividade,
Taguatinga). These four regions which, together, represent about 50- of
the state population and about half the number of municipios, have the
lowest indices of human development (IDH) in the state. The North, which
has the highest population density, is among the poorest regions in
Brazil. In order to ensure effective spatial coordination of investments
and to maximize synergies, the two projects will target program areas and
municipalities within these regions through multi-criteria analyses which
take into account the population and indices of human development, and, in
the case of the TRIP, progress achieved under the institutional
development objectives.
Within the above strategic framework, the TRIP will focus on the actions
needed at the state, regional and municipal levels, specifically:
establish and/or strengthen participatory, multisectoral planning
- 5 -



processes at the regional and municipal levels guided by agro-ecological
zoning instruments, build local institutions, and promote public-private
partnerships for better targeting of public investment, effective delivery
of infrastructure services, and sustainable use of natural resources;
consolidate and expand the state's environmental protection system,
refining the agro-ecological zoning instruments, strengthening land use
and water resource monitoring, consolidating existing and establishing new
ecosystem conservation areas, and rehabilitating and/or preserving
riparian forests;
increase the competitiveness and incomes of farmers in selected program
areas with proven potential for sustainable growth by upgrading feeder
road links to the main highway network; and
improve access of rural communities to markets, off-farm jobs, education
and social services by upgrading and maintaining selected municipal access
road networks to all-weather condition.
The RPRP will complement the TRIP by focusing on the actions needed at
the community level, and specifically:
strengthen the capacity of rural community associations to collectively
define, implement and maintain community projects, and build an effective
consultative process at municipal level to select sustainable, priority
projects;
increase incomes of rural poor by providing technical assistance and
grants to community associations for starting new, sustainable, farming or
other productive projects;
improve the well-being of rural poor by providing technical assistance and
grants to community associations for preparing and implementing selected
community infrastructure projects;
improve the conservation of ecosystems by providing technical assistance
and grants to community associations for preparing and implementing
selected community environmental conservation or rehabilitation projects.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will help:
through the development of regional and municipal planning capacity, and
inclusion of local communities in the planning, implementation and
monitoring process, developing synergies among the different rural
development programs to maximize benefits to the poorest;
involving the poorest in decisions affecting their communities;
establishing frameworks for the preparation and implementation of regional
and local development plans;
bringing international experience and best practices in municipal
management, including transparent financial management, increased
efficiency of tax collection and public expenditures, management of local
services, and access to knowledge;
bringing international experience and best practices in highway and rural
roads management, including administrative decentralization, maintenance
by contract with the private sector, sustainability of rural
infrastructure sector reforms, and road-related environmental and social
safeguard policies and procedures; and
promoting the conservation of the state's natural resources, by continuing
to provide support to the structuring and implementation of the state's
land use management policy.
4. Description
-6-



The project will be comprised of the following four components:
a regional development planning and rural infrastructure management
component, which will consist of technical assistance, equipment, software
and of training of state and municipal staff to:
establish and/or strengthen regional, sustainable development councils or
fora, on a pilot basis in the Sudeste and Bico de Papagaio regions, with a
broad representation of the poor, civil society, the business community
and local administrations, under the councils' guidance and with technical
support from regional units of SEPLAN, prepare, monitor and evaluate
regional development plans or agenda. Emphasis will be on identifying
regional and intermunicipal public investment priorities, on the spatial
coordination of the various programs, on promoting associations of small
municipios and public-private partnerships for effective delivery of
public services and increased productivity and competitiveness of small
farmers, and on sustainable use of natural resources.
prepare, monitor and evaluate municipal development plans or agenda,
identifying municipal and community priority projects through a broad
public consultation and participatory process which effectively integrates
all, including the poorest communities, through appropriate motivation and
training programs; and strengthen SEPLAN's capacity to facilitate such
decentralized planning process and to monitor implementation and evaluate
results, including for the project;
strengthen the tax collection, financial management and control systems of
individual municipalities or associations of municipalities; and
establish or strengthen the technical and administrative capacities of
municipalities, or associations of municipalities, to deliver local
infrastructure services, including improvement and maintenance of
municipal road networks, on a sustainable basis. Emphasis will be put on
addressing the needs of the poor, disseminating appropriate service
standards and cost-recovery mechanisms, and promoting private sector
participation through concessions or output-based contracts.
an environmental management component, which will consist of technical
assistance, equipment, software, small works and of training of staff to:
prepare the detailed economic-ecological zonings of six priority regions
and the agro-climatic zoning of intensive-use agricultural areas;
define a land use policy with adequate incentives, economic and regulatory
instruments, and state/local structures;
prepare investment and operating plans for, and establish six priority
environmental protection areas, including the necessary supervision
infrastructure and equipment, training of operational staff, and
environmental education of local communities;
develop a plan to monitor essential climatic and hydrological conditions
in the state, and establish the first elements of such
hydro-meteorological system;
initiate a program, with the participation of rural communities, to
protect and/or rehabilitate riparian forest galleries (matas ciliares);
and
strengthen NATURATINS's decentralized licensing and monitoring capacities.
a state road improvement and maintenance component, which will consist of
civil works, engineering services, technical assistance, equipment,
software, and training of staff for SEINFRA and/or DERTINS to:
prepare, monitor and evaluate efficient state road programs and annual
budgets on the basis of adequate technical standards and economic and
-7 -



environmental criteria and methodologies, and taking into account the
regional development plans or agenda;
prepare and/or supervise environmental assessments and management plans,
with effective consultation of relevant communities;
strengthen DERTINS' road maintenance capacity, particularly by shifting
from force account to performance-based contract maintenance policies,
gradually decentralizing its maintenance activities through the creation
of new districts, and by reorganizing, its assistance to municipalities;
and
upgrade high-priority secondary and feeder roads (totaling about 800 km)
linking areas with proven potential for sustainable production to the main
highway network.
a rural transport improvement component, which will consist of civil
works, engineering services, technical assistance, equipment, software,
and of training of municipal staff to:
upgrade primary municipal access road networks (totaling about 6,000 km)
prioritized under the decentralized participatory planning processes to
all-weather condition through spot improvements, mainly (re)-construction
of bridges, culverts, and other drainage improvements;
experiment with pilot subprojects of decentralized maintenance of
municipal roads, including creation of inter-municipal road consortia,
output-based contracts with DERTINS and/or small local contractors using
labor-intensive methods;
promote cost-effective rural transport services, particularly school bus
systems, and establish mechanisms to improve access of the rural poor to
such services.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $50.00
IBRD $50.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $100.00
6. Implementation
The State of Tocantins will be the Borrower and the Federative Republic of
Brazil the Guarantor. In order to ensure an effective coordination of the
implementation of the two projects, SEPLAN will be responsible for
implementing the PRPR and the planning and environmental components of the
TRIP, in addition to continuing the execution of the NRPP.     The project's
planning component will be implemented through SEPLAN's Diretoria de
Planejamento, while the environmental component will be implemented
through SEPLAN's Diretoria de Zoneamento Ecologico-economico, with the
support of SEPLAN's Dietoria de Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hidricos, and
Diretoria de Pesquisas e Informacoes. The roads components of the TRIP
will be implemented by the State Highway Department (DERTINS) of the State
Secretariat of Infrastructure (SEINF-TO). A project management unit
(PMU) will be established under the Director of Strategic Support in
SEINF, to coordinate or maintain procurement, payments and disbursements,
accounts, documentation and audits under the project, and to prepare
project management reports. The PMU is expected to incorporate the
experienced staff that effectively coordinated the execution of the
recently-completed state highway management project (Loan no. 3714-BR).
Regional and municipal development plans would be prepared by,
respectively, the CONDERs and the CONDEMs, with support from SEPLAN's
- 8-



regional technical units and technical assistance provided under the
project. The Bank will ensure appropriate coordination of its
supervision activities of the project, the TRPRP as well as the ongoing
NRPP. In particular, efforts will be made to ensure at least one joint
supervision mission each year.
Linkages between Investments and Institutional Components
In order to provide appropriate incentives for the proposed institutional
development measures, in particular for implementing the proposed
participative planning mechanisms for sustainable local development,
approval of municipal road network subprojects for financing under the
project will be subject to presentation of the proposed municipal agenda
for sustainable local development together with a report on the
constitution of the municipal forum and on the actual participation
process followed for the preparation of the development agenda and the
road subproject. In the event that some municipios would not have
presented satisfactory subproject applications with satisfactory
development agenda and subprojects within two years of the loan
effectiveness date, the amounts of the project allocated to such
municipios would, at the mid-term review of the project, be redistributed
to best performing municipios.
Monitoring and Evaluation
As both the TRIP and the TRPRP will contribute to the same objectives in
the same target regions of Tocantins. Thus, the outcomes of both projects
will be monitored and evaluated jointly, in an integrated manner. The
methodology for monitoring and evaluation will be developed on the basis
of the methodology already prepared for the Rural Poverty Alleviation
Projects of the Northeast.
A monitoring system will be developed to track progress in the
implementation of each project to ensure that planned targets are met, to
identify problems and accomplishments and to undertake or promote
appropriate actions to improve project implementation. The respective
Project Management Units will be in charge of project monitoring based on
project information provided by project databases, field visits and inputs
from project supervision reports, project-contracted studies and audits.
Projects information will be accessible to both Project Management Units.
The main considerations which will guide the organization of project
evaluation are: (i) institutional and socioeconomic impacts will be
evaluated by SEPLAN's Diretoria de Pesquisas, which is already in charge
of monitoring and evaluating the impact of the various programs under
implementation in the state to reduce poverty and foster economic
development. The Diretoria has already developed a series of composite
indicators which it compiles annually, on the basis of basic data
collected mostly by various state and federal entities. The project will
provide financing for training, technical assistance and equipment to
strengthen the Diretoria's capacity and allow for the contracting of
external assistance to complete in-house capacity; (ii) environmental
impacts will be evaluated by SEPLAN's Diretoria de Zoneamento
Ecologico-Economico, as it is one of the Diretoria's responsibility; and
(iii) evaluation of the Bank's projects will be fully integrated in the
evaluation work already undertaken by the Diretorias at the level of the
-9-



state programs. This implies, inter alia, that the indicators to be used
for the evaluation of the Bank's projects will have to correspond to
indicators already collected by the Diretorias, unless it is determined
that none of the indicators collected is a relatively good proxy to
measure the impact of the Bank's projects on a very specific and essential
variable. While following this principle will obviously help reducing
costs associated with evaluation, it will also help: (i) build up
government's ownership in the evaluation process; (ii) ensure the
sustainability of the institutional strengthening efforts within the
Diretoria de Pesquisas; (iii) ensure inter-state comparability, as some of
the key indicators used by the Diretoria de Pesquisas are used nationally;
and (iv) a joint mid-term review will be undertaken to determine the
efficiency of the projects design in reaching their objectives, and
modifying, if necessary, the design of certain projects components and/or
targeting.
Project evaluation studies will be designed and implemented to asses the
performance of the two projects in terms of their stated objectives, and
to provide appropriate feedback to improve project operations. In
particular, these studies will assess three inter-related dimensions of
the performance of each project:
(1) Socioeconomic impact: Whether the project improved living standards;
(2) Targeting: Whether project interventions actually reached its intended
beneficiaries, i.e. the rural poor;
(3) Institutional impact: Whether the project increased institutional
capacity and social capital at each jurisdictional level.
The analysis of project targeting will assess whether the mechanisms used
by the two projects to allocate resources actually served to reach the
poor. The institutional analysis will assess how the two projects serve to
enhance social capital in beneficiary communities, municipalities and
regions (e.g. number of community associations, and municipal and regional
councils formed, their activities and degree of participation). It will
also examine the performance and capacity of community associations,
municipal and regional councils and technical units at the State level.
The socioeconomic assessment of the project will be based on a carefully
designed impact evaluation framework and data from a baseline and
follow-up surveys. The impact evaluation framework will include the
following components: operationalization of (1) in terms of measurable
impact indicators, reflecting both the direct effects (e.g. improved
access to work, markets and services) and indirect effects (e.g. increases
in income and other dimensions of well-being such as health and education)
of project interventions; identification of the unit of analysis for each
project type; identification of the most appropriate methodologies or
combination of methodologies to be used given the characteristics of the
projects; and an assessment of data availability and data needs consistent
with the above. Finally, in order to enhance the policy implications of
the impact evaluation, the latter should be complemented with
cost-effectiveness analysis of the two projects compared with other
interventions that use a more centralized delivery mechanism.
7. Sustainability
The project will seek sustainability through:
development of a spatial and participatory approach to rural development
- 10 -



and poverty reduction at policy, planning and implementation levels;
establishment and strengthening of local capacity to define and seek
funding for municipal and regional development plans, and monitor their
implementation;
increased social capital;
better inclusion of rural population in society and economy, through
increased awareness to rural economy potential and related support
available to realize the potential;
development of feedback mechanisms on efficiency/targeting of activities
aiming at regional development and reduction of rural poverty;
increased management capacity at municipal level, including tax collection
and financial management capacity;
development of funding mechanisms for maintenance of rural roads at local
level;
consolidation of the state's environmental management capacity; and
more effective and sustainable operation and maintenance of the state
highway network.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following important lessons learned from past experience of the Bank
in implementing this type of project have been incorporated into the
design and preparation of the project:
. Participation of beneficiaries: experience in Brazil and elsewhere has
demonstrated that involvement of civil society an potential beneficiaries
in the design, implementation and monitoring of local development and
poverty reduction activities is fundamental to maximize the project's
impact , in terms of matching the needs of the municipalities and
communities, ensuring ownership, and sustaining project's impacts over the
long term. As such, the project will support involvement of all
stakeholders, including civil society and potential beneficiaries in
developing, implementing and monitoring local development plans.
. Project scope: OED reviewed 66 Bank-funded operations dealing with rural
roads. Half of these operations focused exclusively on rural roads, while
the other operations included also other components under Roads,
Transport, Rural Infrastructure, Irrigation and Agriculture and Rural
Development Projects. The outcome of all operations reviewed has been
mixed, especially for agriculture or integrated development projects. A
such, the OED review favors sector projects designed within a holistic
strategy for rural development. This is especially true for a project in
the transport sector, as transport is an intermediary good. The project
fully integrates this lesson.
Institutions for broad-based rural development: the success of rural
development initiatives, particularly those targeted at the rural poor,
depends upon the existence of well-functioning institutions, able to
collaborate across regional, functional and governmental boundaries, and
responsive to the populations they are meant to serve. The project and
the RPRP will foster the strengthening of existing institutions, creation
of fora for cross-sectorial collaboration, and building of social
capital.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The environmental objective of the project is to
- 11 -



continue supporting government's efforts in promoting the efficient use
and conservation of the state's natural resources and to protect
biodiversity and fragile ecosystems. Specific sub-objectives include:
consolidating the state's capacity in terms of environmental management
and monitoring: following the elaboration of the state zoning, the project
will support the preparation of a detailed zoning of the most fragile and
threatened Jalapao region, and of the entire Sudeste and Nordeste regions;
preparation of plans for, and establish the six most urgent conservation
units (UC), including the Jalapao Park (in coordination with GEF funded
Programa Nacional de Biodiversidade); establishment of the first phase of
a climate and water resource monitoring system; and initiation of a
program to protect and to rehabilitate remains of tropical forest. The
TRIP will also help SEPLAN to reassess the geographical targeting of the
state expenditure programs in relation to the zoning; and to strengthen
the local environmental licensing, supervision and monitoring capacities
of NATURATINS;
ensuring that the preparation of municipal and regional development plans
include adequate provisions to protect sensitive areas and manage natural
resources in a sustainable fashion: awareness of municipalities and local
communities to environmental protection and sustainable natural resources
management will be raised through existing activities in this area,
including activities funded under various Government programs and the
SPRN. In addition, development plans will be developed in close
collaboration with environmental advisors, which will, inter alia, expose
to and discuss with municipal and regional councils general principles of
environmental protection and sustainable natural resources management, the
state's environmental policies and objectives, and the recommendations of
the detailed regional ZEEs, as they become available; and
ensuring that physical activities funded under the project meet the
requirements of the Bank safeguard policies: environmental issues are
expected to be relatively minor, as physical activities under the project
will basically concern strutural improvement of existing road sections on
the state network, and very localized improvements of road infrastructure
on the municipal network. Improvement activities will have mainly
short-term, construction-related negative impacts (noise, dust and the
like). Potential long-term negative indirect impacts from the improvement
of state road sections will be handled through appropriate identification
and mitigation processes, such as application of the ZEE's
recommendations, various land use policy instruments, including land and
water use restriction, establishment of protected areas, modification of
project design and/or alignment.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Aymeric-Albin Meyer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473 7101
Fax:   (202) 676 9594
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
- 12 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 8, 2002.
- 13 -



