24228
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/31/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BRAZIL                                 Project ID: P060573
Project: TOCANTINS RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE         Task Team Leader: Aymeric-Albin Meyer
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 1, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m): 50.00
Bank Approval: January 28, 2003                 IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSFT                            Sector: Roads & highways (50%); Sub-national
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance  government administration (25%); General public
Loan (SIM)                       administration sector (25%)
Status: 'Lending                                Theme: Trade facilitation and market access (P);
Rural services and infrastructure (P); Environmental
policies and institutions (P); Decentralization (S);
Civic engagement; participation and community
driven development (S)
I.A.2. IProject Objectives:
The project development objective is to contribute to raising living standards and to reducing
inequalities and regional disparities by improving access to markets, job opportunities, infrastructure and
social services for rural communities in Tocantins' poorest regions, while ensuring sustainiable use of
natural resources and the protection of fragile ecosystems. This development objective is fully in line
with the Government's development strategy (see section 2.7), designed for a state in the process of
consolidating its institutions and public expenditures programs (the state has been created 12 years ago,
following separation from the state of Goias), and developing its economic potential (since its creation,
the state has undergone an economic growth of 60%, and economy is expected to continue growing
principally on the basis of agricultural and agro-industrial production, as well as eco-tourism).
The Tocantins Rural Infrastructure Project (TRIP) was designed and will be implemented within
the Government's comprehensive development framework (the PPA) and within a clear strategic
framework for all Bank activities in Tocantins, which also include an ongoing Natural Resources Policy
Project (NRPP) under the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest (PPG7) and a proposed
Rural Poverty Reduction Project (RPRP). The strategic framework emphasizes: (i) building
decentralized, multisectoral planning processes with effective participation of the poor, and
public-private partnerships for better delivery of infrastructure services and an improved investment
climate; (ii) implementing the agro-ecological zoning of the state, as an instrument for targeting public
infrastructure investments, for guiding the decentralized planning processes,for establishing ecosystem
conservation units, and for licensing public and private investments; and (iii) promoting environmentally,



2
ISDS
socially and economically sustainable activities which generate employment and income for the poor
through sustainable use of natural resources. In implementing the latter objective, the projects will build
on and disseminate the lessons learned from pilot subprojects under the NRPP.
The two new projects will target the same four regions of the state, i.e. the North (Bico do
Papagaio), the Northeast (Goiatins - Pedro Afonso), the East (Jalapao), and the Southeast (Arraias,
Dianopolis, Natividade, Taguatinga). These four regions which, together, represent over 30% of the state
population and about half the number of municipios, have the lowest indices of human development
(IDH) in the state. The North, which has the highest population density, is among the poorest regions in
Brazil. In order to ensure effective spatial coordination of investments and to maximize synergies, the
two projects will target program areas and municipalities within these regions through multi-criteria
analyses which take into account the population and indices of human development, and, in the case of
the TRIP, progress achieved under the institutional development objectives.
Within the above strategic framework, the TRIP will focus on the actions needed at the state,
regional and municipal levels, specifically:
*   establish and/or strengthen participatory, multisectoral planning processes at the regional and
municipal levels guided by agro-ecological zoning instruments, build local institutions, and
promote public-private partnerships for better targeting of public investment, effective
delivery of infrastructure services, and sustainable use of natural resources;
*   consolidate and expand the state's environmental protection system, refining the
agro-ecological zoning instruments, strengthening land use and water resource monitoring,
consolidating existing and establishing new ecosystem conservation areas, and rehabilitating
and/or preserving riparian forests;
*   increase the competitiveness and incomes of farmers in selected program areas with proven
potential for sustainable growth by upgrading feeder road links to the main highway network;
and
*   improve access of rural communities to markets, off-farm jobs, education and social services
by upgrading and maintaining selected municipal access road networks to all-weather
condition.
The RPRP will complement the TRIP by focusing on the actions needed at the community level,
and specifically:
*   strengthen the capacity of rural community associations to collectively define, implement
and maintain community projects, and build an effective consultative process at municipal
level to select sustainable, priority projects;
*   increase incomes of rural poor by providing technical assistance and grants to community
associations for starting new, sustainable, farming or other productive projects;
*   improve the well-being of rural poor by providing technical assistance and grants to
community associations for preparing and implementing selected community infrastructure
projects;
*   improve the conservation of ecosystems by providing technical assistance and grants to
community associations for preparing and implementing selected community environmental
conservation or rehabilitation projects.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will be comprised of the following four components:
1. a regional development planning and rural infrastructure management componea4hich will



3
ISDS
consist of technical assistance, equipment, software and of training of state and municipal
staff to:
1. establish and/or strengthen regional, sustainable development councils or fora, on a pilot basis in
the Sudeste and Bico de Papagaio regions, with a broad representation of local administrations,
civil society and the business community and, under the councils' guidance, prepare, monitor and
evaluate regional development plans or agenda. Emphasis will be on identifying regional and
intermunicipal public investment priorities, on the spatial coordination of the various programs,
on promoting associations of small municipios and public-private partnerships for effective
delivery of public services and increased productivity and competitiveness of small farmers, and
on sustainable use of natural resources.
2. prepare, monitor and evaluate municipal development plans or agenda, identifying municipal and
community priority projects through a broad public consultation and participatory process which
effectively integrates all, including the poorest communities, through appropriate motivation and
training programs;
3. strengthen the tax collection, financial management and control systems of individual
municipalities or associations of municipalities; and
4. establish or strengthen the technical and administrative capacities of municipalities, or
associations of municipalities, to deliver local infrastrucutre services, including improvement and
maintenance of municipal road networks, on a sustainable basis. Emphasis will be put on
addressing the needs of the poor, disseminating appropriate service standards and cost-recovery
mechanisms, and promoting private sector participation through concessions or output-based
contracts.
2. an environmental management compoi,enthiclwill consist of technical assistance,
equipment, software, small works and of training of staff to:
I. prepare the detailed agro-ecological zonings of six priority regions and the agro-climatic zoning
of intensive-use agricultural areas;
2. define a land use policy with adequate incentives, economic and regulatory instruments, and
state/local structures;
3. prepare investment and operating plans for, and establish the six priority environmental
protection areas, including the necessary supervision infrastructure and equipment, training of
operational staff, and environmental education of local communities;
4. develop a plan to monitor essential climatic and hydrological conditions in the state, and
establish the first elements of such hydro-meteorological system;
5. initiate a program, with the participation of rural communities, to protect and/or rehabilitate
riparian forest galleries (matas ciliares); and
6. strengthen NATURATINS's decentralized licensing and monitoring capacities.
3. a state road improvement and maintenance compoteuQhichwill consist of civil works,
engineering services, technical assistance, equipment, software, and training of staff for
SEINFRA and/or DERTINS to:
1. prepare, monitor and evaluate efficient state road programs and annual budgets on the basis of
adequate technical standards and economic and environmental criteria and methodologies, and
taking into account the regional development plans or agenda;



4
ISDS
2. prepare and/or supervise environmental assessments and management plans, with effective
consultation of relevant communities;
3. strengthen DERTINS' road maintenance capacity, particularly by shifting from force account to
performance-based contract maintenance policies, gradually decentralizing its maintenance
activities through the creation of new districts, and by reorganizing, its assistance to
municipalities; and
4. upgrade high-priority secondary and feeder roads (totaling about 400 km) linking areas with
proven potential for sustainable production to the main highway network.
4. a rural transport improvemeiW mponent, which will consist of civil works, engineering
services, technical assistance, equipment, software, and of training of municipal staff to:
1. upgrade primary municipal access roads (about 6,000 km) prioritized under the decentralized
participatory planning processes to all-weather condition through spot improvements, mainly
(re)-construction of bridges and drainage facilities;
2. experiment with pilot subprojects of decentralized maintenance of municipal roads, including
creation of inter-municipal road consortia, output-based contracts with DERTINS and/or small
local contractors using labor-intensive methods;
3. promote cost-effective rural transport services, particularly school bus systems, and
establish mechanisms to improve access of the rural poor to such services.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will target four regions of the state, i.e. the North (Bico do Papagaio), the Northeast
(Goiatins - Pedro Afonso), the East (Jalapao), and the Southeast (Arraias, Dianopolis, Natividade,
Taguatinga). These four regions which, together, represent over 30% of the state population and about
half the number of municipios, have the lowest indices of human development (IDH) in the state. The
North, which has the highest population density, is among the poorest regions in Brazil.
The northern region is at the transition to the Amazon biome, with denser rain forest, much of
which has already been cleared. It has somewhat better conditions for agriculture than the Cerrado
sub-regions, particularly for cultivation of perennial crops. It has been the focus of intense land conflicts
and also of land reform settlement efforts in the past. It also provides income to many poor families as a
source of extractivist products, such as babassu nuts. The main concern is with degradation of soils
from unsustainable production, alteration of hydrological regimes and clearing of remaining forests,
including gallery forests. The northern region includes the Apinajes and Krah6landia Indigenous Areas,
within which no road improvement activities are foreseen under the project. The thinly populated, sandy
and dry Jalapdo region in the central-eastern portion of the state is recognized as fragile and having low
potential for either ranching or agriculture, and is likely to be used only for some fruit production,
ecosystem protection and tourism. Recognizing the fragility of the ecosystem, both the Federal and State
Governments have established protected areas, including two areas of integral protection (the federal
Esta,cdo Ecologica Serra Geral do Tocantins, covering 716,000 ha and the state Parque do Jalapdo,
covering 159,000 ha) and an area of restricted use (the state Area de Prote,do Ambiental do Jalapdo,
englobing the state Parque do Jalapdo, covering about 300,000 ha). Basically, 30% of the Jalapdo
region is environmentally protected and no road improvement activities could take place in the areas of
integral protection, and no road improvement activities are foreseen under the project within the area of
restricted use. The southeast of the state shows a highly diverse mosaic of land use. Soils have little



5
ISDS
fertility, but are suitable for ranching and some limited agriculture in short rotations. Several small areas
have been proposed for ecosystem protection. A main concern in this region is soil erosion.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments: The project is assigned a "A" rating for environmental purposes. Improvements to municipal
road sections will be limited to (re)-construction of small bridges and drainage facilities, for which standard
designs and ToR for preparation PCA will be prepared. The standard designs will be reviewed by the Bank,
to ensure that they minimize negative impacts on the environment. Improvement to state road sections will
include surface and drainage rehabilitation, as well as paving. The state has put in place, with support
provided under the Second State Highway Management Project, an adequate framework to ensure that no
significant adverse impacts on the environment results from the implementation of improvement activities in
all areas., with the exception of paving activities in potentially sensitive areas (as defined by the zoning).
The framework includes: (i) the economic-ecological zoning of the state, which aims at promoting efficient
use and conservation of the state's natural resources and protecting biodiversity and fragile ecosystems, and
identifies, inter alia, environmentally-sensitive areas; (ii) an environmental manual and related
environmental norms for road designs and works (including recuperation of passivo ambiental) satisfactory
to the Bank, the Manual Operacional da Gesido Ambiental do Setor Rodoviario; (iii) guidelines for the
implementation of the recommendations of the environmental management plans, the Plano de Acao
Ambiental, (iv) specific procedures for initial screening, review, supervision and monitoring of road works
by NATURATINS; (iv) strengthening of NATURATINS' capacity; (v) an environmental unit to cover
sectors covered by SEINF (roads, power, public civil works and airports), adequately staffed and trained;
(vi) necessary clauses related to the respect of environmental requirements introduced in standard contract
documents; and (vii) capacity to establish protected areas, with, as of today, 8% of the state's surface
reserved for restricted use, 5% under integral protection, and 7% for protection of indigenous population, so
that about 20% of the state's superficie is composed of protected areas. In addition, 11 potential protected
areas have been identified, and the required level of protection and surface to be protected have started to be
identified. In potentially sensitive areas, justification for paving activities will include, inter alia preparation
of EIAs based on the detailed agro-ecological zoning for the corresponding region, and when necessary, on
additional studies aiming at: better delimitating areas to be protected, including in the road section's area of
influence; proposing measures to mitigate the indirect impact of paving activities on the environment; and
defining those technical/design standards and implementation processes which will minimize negative
environmental impact.
Other project components, and especially the environmental management component, are expected to
have a substantially positive impact on the environment.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                 |     Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          I Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No



6
ISDS
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section H - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Short-term negative environmental impact: these are expected to be relatively minor, as physical
activities under the project will basically concern improvement of existing road sections on the state
network, and very localized improvements of road infrastructure on the municipal network. Improvement
activities will have mainly short-term, construction-related negative impacts (noise, dust and the like).
Natural habitats: Under the recently completed State Highway Management Project, a state-wide
agro-ecological zoning was prepared. The zoning identifies, inter alia, areas which should be protected.
In addition, taking into account the experience acquired and lessons learned in preparing the detailed
zoning of the Bico do Papagaio under the NRPP, the project will help SEPLAN to prepare detailed
zonings of the Jalapdo region (the fragile parts of which are under legal status of integral protection (
Estaqdo Ecologica and Parque of Jalapdo) and restricted use (APA do Jalapao), with a total protected
area equivalent to about 30% of the Jalapdo region), and subsequently of the entire Sudeste and Nordeste
regions included in the project. These more detailed regional zonings will provide effective instruments
for the proposed decentralized and participatory planning processes, for environmental impact
assessments, licensing and land use and impact monitoring activities. Second, the project will help
prepare management plans for, and implement the six most urgent of the eleven identified conservation
units (UC), including the Parque do Jalapdo, in coordination with GEF funded Programa Nacional de
Biodiversidade. With this subcomponent, the project would contribute to increase the total aggregated
protected areas up to about 22% of the state's superficie.
As such, it is expected that the project will have a significant positive impact on natural habitats, and will
allow to significantly leverage the state's capacity in mitigating potential negative long-term impacts on
the environment resulting from the implementation of activities inducing economic growth, including the
road improvement components under the project. However, if some road improvement activities under
the project are to be localized in potentially fragile areas, these activities might have an indirect impact,
by inducing development of economic activities in these areas. As such, studies would be undertaken to
estimate the indirect impact of these activities on the natural habitats, and to determine appropriate
mitigation measures (which could, as necessary, include land and water use restriction, establishment of
protected areas, appropriate road design and signalization). These studies would have to be reviewed and
approved by the Bank before the bidding of the corresponding road improvement activities can be
launched.
Resettlement: At this stage, it is not expected that the project will require resettlement, as works would
be confined within the existing road right of ways, which, based on information at hand to date, are free
of settlements.
Indigenous people: the indigenous population of the state is small, less than 5,000 individuals (or 0.5%
of the population), mainly from the Apinajes, Krah6, and Xerente indian groups. Nearly all of them
occupy areas demarcated and regularized by FUNAI. Indigenous areas occupy about 7% of the state, and
include the Xerente Indigenous Area (North of Palmas), the Apinajes Indigenous Area (in the Bico de
Papagaio), the Krah6landia Indigenous Area in the Nordeste region, and the Xambioa Indigenous Area



7
ISDS
in the Nordoeste region.
Although the project is not expected to have an impact on Indigenous Areas or require resettlement, an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) and a resettlement framework have been drafted. In
particular, the resettlement framework includes Guidelines for Resettlement, that the Government intends
to approve officially and apply to any road works to be implemented in the state.
Cultural property: road improvement activities might uncover archaeological, paleontological, or other
cultural property. Accordingly, civil works contracts will include standard procedures on cultural
property chance find, which will specify the actions that contractors and workers should take (including
whom to notify) if they discover cultural property during the course of construction activities.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
It is not expected that the application of the above safeguard policies will not result in cumulative impacts
beyond the impacts described in II.D.la.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Overall, the project is expected to have a positive long term impact on the environment. Indeed, the state
of Tocantins is in a phase of sustained econcomic growth, and it is essential to ensure that growth be
sustainable from an environmental perspective. The project is expected to provide significant assistance
in that respect to the state, including preparation of detailed zonings in targeted regions, definition of
instruments to implement the recommendations of the zonings, strengthening of environmental licensing
and monitoring functions. This would allow to significantly leverage the state's capacity in mitigating
potential negative long-term impacts on the environment resulting from the implementation of activities
contributing to economic growth, including the road improvement components under the project.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
During the identification process of road sections to be included under the project, and design of road
improvements, alternatives will be considered to minimize any potential safeguard policy issue.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Government, through SEPLAN and SEINF, will be committed under the project's legal documents,
to carry out effective screening of physical activities for potential impacts, to review ElAs, supervise
implementation of EMPs, and monitor subproject impacts on the environment, natural habitats, cultural
property, indigenous peoples and families affected by involuntary resettlement. These activities will be
undertaken, when necessary, in collaboration with other relevant institutions (such as FUNAI, in the case
of potential issues related to Indigenous People). Dertins will also be committed, for physical activities
under the state road improvement and maintenance component, to carry out public consultations and
prepare EIAs, EMPs, Resettlement and other plans as necessary in accordance with agreed procedures,
criteria and methodologies specified in the relevant documents previously mentioned. The project will
provide technical assistance and training services to develop the necessary institutional capacities in
SEPLAN and SEINF as defined in the previous paragraphs. The Bank will not approve state road
improvement subprojects for financing under the loan unless subproject financing applications include
evidence that the required surveys, assessments and plans have been completed and are satisfactory. The
Bank will also supervise the implementation of the agreed plans or measures.
With respect to the Natural Habitat Policy, under the recently completed State Highway Management
Project, a state-wide agro-ecological zoning was prepared. The zoning identifies, inter alia, areas which



8
ISDS
should be protected. In addition, taking into account the experience acquired and lessons learned in
preparing the detailed zoning of the Bico do Papagaio under the NRPP, the project will help SEPLAN to
prepare detailed zonings of the most fragile and threatened Jalapao region, and subsequently of the entire
Sudeste and Nordeste regions included in the project. These more detailed regional zonings will provide
effective instruments for the proposed decentralized and participatory planning processes, for
environmental impact assessments, licensing and land use and impact monitoring activities. Second, the
project will help prepare management plans for, and establish the six most urgent of the eleven identified
conservation units (UC), including the Jalapao Park, in coordination with GEF funded Programa
Nacional de Biodiversidade. With this subcomponent, the project will contribute to increase the total
aggregated protected areas to over 10% of the state's superficie.
As such, it is expected that the project will have a significant positive impact on natural habitats, and will
allow to significantly leverage the state's capacity in mitigating potential negative long-term impacts on
the environment resulting from the implementation of activities inducing economic growth, including the
state and municipal road improvement components under the project.
Selection of State Road Sections to be Improved
State and rural road sections on which improvements are to be carried out under the project have not yet
been identified, due to the fact that the identification process relies on decentralized and participatory
mechanisms, which are currently being set up. Under the state road improvement component, road
sections to be improved will be selected by the Secretariat of Infrastructure, with the collaboration of the
Secretariat of Planning. The selection process will be as follows: (i) participatory processes will permit
to identify which road links permit the best access from the regions' productive areas to and from the
main trade corridors. It is worth noting that the regions' productive areas have been delimited by the
ZEE process, using the potential of a specific area for sustainable development as a main criteria. This
excludes, for example, areas with fragile ecosystems, and areas susceptible to erosion; (ii) identified road
links will be prioritized by the state government in function of traffic levels, density of state roads in
good condition in each region, the number of productive areas and people deserved by these links,
number of municipal roads which would be connected by these links, and the connections which are
provided by these links to other regions of the state or neighboring states. The state government will also
eliminate those proposed road links, the improvement of which would be expected to result into negative
long-term impacts very difficult to mitigate at this stage (e.g., a road link giving access to an area with a
fragile ecosystem which would not be adequately protected in the short-term), on the basis of information
provided by the ZEE, complemented by field studies; (iii) for the highest priority link, before initiating
any detailed engineering designs, a justification for the link's selection will be forwarded to the Bank for
review. The justification will include, inter alia, the results of the screening for potential impacts on the
environment, on indigenous people, and on historic patrimony, as applicable; and (iv) a full-fledged EIA
or PCA will be undertaken in accordance with Brazilian laws and with the Manual Operacional da
Gestao Ambiental no Setor Rodoviario which was reviewed by the Bank. The EIA and/or PCA will look,
inter alia, at possible alternatives to mitigate as much as possible negative impacts which would result
from improvement activities; and (iv) the EIA or PCA would be submitted for the Bank's review and
approval, before the bidding for the improvement activities could be launched. The licensing of such
project and monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by the state environmental agency
(NATURATINS) in collaboration with the road administration (DERTINS).
Selection of Rural Roads Spot Improvements
The rural transport improvement component will fund (re)-construction of bridges and drainage facilities
on the main municipal networks. The main municipal networks will be defined by the local development
fora, with the support of the state road administration, in accordance to criteria including environmental
considerations, as well as economic and social importance of specific municipal roads for the



9
ISDS
municipality. It is expected that the main municipal networks will cover between 10% and 15% of the
total municipal networks. The proposed main municipal network will be then reviewed by the secretariat
of planning (including NATURATINS) and infrastructure (including DERTINS), and road sections
which could give access to areas not suitable for sustainable development to would be dropped.
following approval of the definition of the main municipal network, PCAs will be prepared for spot
improvement activities. The PCAs will be reviewed and their implementation supervised by DERTINS,
in collaboration with SEINF's Environmental Unit.
EMlPs and PCAs
EMPs will be required for works under the state road improvement component of the project.
Improvements will be designed and related EIAs/EMPs prepared in accordance with the Manual
Operacional da Gestdo Ambiental do Setor Rodoviario. The preparation of EIAs/EMPs will be
contracted to specialized consultants, through Terms of Reference prepared in collaboration between
SEINF and NATURATINS. The work of these consultants will be supervised by SEINF staff (from the
DERTINS and Unidade Ambiental). Upon acceptation by SEINF, EMPs will be reviewed by
NATURATINS, on the basis of which the environmental license will be given. For all state road
improvement subprojects, SEfNF will prepare environmental assessments and management plans
targeted to the specific issues identified at the screening stage (and when necessary, resettlement plans
and indigenous people development plans). The Bank would approve financing of the works on the basis
of the final subproject application, which will include a summary of the environmental assessment and
management plan reviewed and approved by NATURATfNS. The implementation of the environmental
management plans will be following the recommendations of the Plano de Acao Ambiental, and will be
supervised by SEINF's Environmental Unit, NATURATINS and the Bank in accordance with the
procedures described above and with the Bank's relevant policies. With respect to spot improvements to
rural roads, following approval of the definition of the main municipal network, PCAs and engineering
designs will be prepared, using standard designs for bridges and drainage facilities. The PCAs and
engineering designs will be reviewed and approved by DERTINS and SEINF's Environmental Unit, and
supervision of PCAs implementation will be carried out by DERTINS in collaboration with SEINF's
Environmental Unit, on a sampling basis, given the number of spot improvements to be implemented.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Local communities, municipalities, private sector, representants of syndicates and other stakeholders will
participate, through municipal and regional councils and with the support of the state, to the elaboration
and implementation of local development plans. The plans will then be reviewed by the state
administration to ensure consistency with the state's policies on, inter alia, development, financial
sustainability and environmental management. Through the elaboration of these development plans,
local communities and municipalities will also propose to the state, in consistence with criteria defined a
priori, specific investments to be funded under the project. Finally, as part of the decentralization
process to be supported by the project, local communities and municipalities would be gradually more
involved in the management of local services' provision, such as maintenance of the municipal road
network.
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas



10
ISDS
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 7/15/2002     9/16/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             8/5/2002      10/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              8/6/2002      10/31/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  9/2/2002      10/31/2002
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 7/15/2002     10/9/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             8/5/2002      10/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              8/6/2002      10/31/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 7/15/2002     10/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             8/5/2002      10/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              8/6/2002      10/31/2002
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Aymeric-Albin Meyer                         10/31/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Daniel R. Gross/Person/World Bank      10/31/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project. Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                         10/31/02
Sector Manager/Director:      Danny M. Leipziger                          10/31/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH  _^ t  - a. FEEDHACK  - F5fTE MAH ,  =  jiOWCASE ____



