                                              Documentof
                                            The World Bank



                                                                                ReportNo: 25473-BR

                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                            PROPOSEDLOAN

                                 INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$60MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                   STATEOF TOCANTINS, BRAZIL

                                      WITHTHE GUARANTEE OF

                              THEFEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                                 FORA

                 TOCANTINSSUSTAINABLEREGIONALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                           OCTOBER 20,2003




Finance,PrivateSector and InfrastructureDepartment
BrazilCountry ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion


This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmav not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (ExchangeRateEffective 10/7/03)

                               CurrencyUnit = R$
                                       R$2.9 = US$I
                                     US$0.34 = R$ 1

                                         FISCALYEAR
                                    January 1 -- December31

                          ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APA:                      EnvironmentallyProtectedAreas
AIU:                      RuralPropertyLegal ConservationArea
CELTINS:                  PowerCompany ofthe Stateof Tocantins
COWER:                    RegionalDevelopmentCouncil
DAE:                      SEINF'sDirectionfor ExtemalAffairs
DERTINS:                  HighwayDepartmentof the Stateof Tocantins
DLIS:                     Local, Integrated,and Sustainable DevelopmentMeth dology
DMA:                      SEPLAN'sDirectionfor EnvironmentandWater Resources
DPI:                      SEPLAN's Researchand InformationDirection
DPL:                      SEPLAN'sPlanningDirection
DZE:                      SEPLAN's Directionfor Economic-ecologicalzoning
EIA:                      Environmental ImpactAssessment
EMP:                      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
FUNAI:                    NationalFoundationfor the IndigenousPeople
GAP:                      Projectadministrativemanagementtask force
GEF:                      GlobalEnvironmentFacility
GOP:                      Projectoperationaltask force
HDM:                      HighwayDesignandMaintenanceModel
IBAMA:                    BrazilianInstitute for Protectionofthe EnvironmentandRenewableNaturalResources
IBGE:                     Brazil GeographicandStatisticsInstitute
IDH-M:                    Municipal HumanDevelopmentIndex
IDS:                      SocialDevelopmentIndex
IPDF:                     IndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentFramework
LRF:                      BrazilianLaw on FiscalResponsibility
NATURANTINS:              Environmental agency ofthe Stateof Tocantins
NRPP:                     Bank-administeredNaturalResourcesPolicyProject
PERTINS:                  RuralElectrificationProgram
PNAFM:                    NationalProgramfor Strengtheningof FiscalAdministrationat the MunicipalLevel
PPG7:                     PilotProjectto Conservethe BrazilianRainforest
RED:                      RoadEconomicDevelopmentModel
SEFAZ:                    FinanceSecretariatofthe State of Tocantins
SEINF:                    InfrastructureSecretariatofthe State ofTocantins
SEPLAN:                   PlanningandDevelopment Secretariat ofthe StateofTocantins
TRPRP:                    ProposedTocantinsRuralPovertyReductionProject
UTR:                      SEPLAN's RegionalTechnicalUnit
ZEE:                      EconomicandEcologicalZoning

                              Vice President:        Davidde Ferranti
                  Country Managermirector:           VinodThomas
                   Sector Managermirector:           DannyLeipziger
            Task Team Leader/TaskManager:            Aymeric-AlbinMeyer

                                                                      FOROFTICLLU,USEONLY


                                                      BRAZIL
                    TOCANTINSSUSTAINABLEREGIONALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT


                                                     CONTENTS




       A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

          1. Project development objective                                                      3
          2. Key performance indicators                                                         5

       B. Strategic Context

          1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      6
          2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                          6
          3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  9

       C. Project Description Summary

          1. Project components                                                                 13
          2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
          3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
          4. Institutional andimplementationarrangements                                        16

       D,Project Rationale

          1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                            17
          2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      18
          3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                                  18
          4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
          5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        19

       E. Summary Project Analysis

          1. Economic                                                                          20
          2. Financial                                                                         22
          3. Technical                                                                         22
          4. Institutional                                                                     23
          5. Environmental                                                                     25
          6. Social                                                                            27
          7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                  29



 This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout WorldBank authorization.

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     30
   2. Critical risks                                                                     31
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     32


G. MainLoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            32
   2. Other                                                                              32

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           34

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             34



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    40
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          49
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           50
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    56
Annex 6:   (A)Procurement Arrangements                                                   58
           (B)Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements                          66
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     70
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    71
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            77
Annex 11:Monitoring and Evaluation                                                       79
Annex 12: State Assistance Strategy                                                      84




MAP@)
IBRD32308

                                                           BRAZIL
                       TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                          ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                           LatinAmerica and Caribbean Region
                                                           LCSFT

 Date: October 20,2003                                         Team Leader: Aymeric-AlbinMeyer
 Sector Managermirector: Danny M. Leipziger                    Sector@): Roads andhighways (50%), Sub-national
 Country Managermirector: Vinod Thomas                        governmentadministration (25%), General public
 Project ID: PO60573                                          administrationsector (25%)
 Lending Instrument: Sector Investment& Maintenance           Theme@): Trade facilitationandmarket access (P), Rural
 Loan (SIM)                                                   services and infrastructure (P), Environmentalpolicies and
                                                              institutions (P), Decentralization (S), Participation and
                                     -                        civic engagement (S)         - -
       ct Financing Data                            _L.


I [XI Loan        [ ]Credit        [ ]Grant        [ 3 Guarantee        [ ] Other:
 For LoanslCreditslOthers:
 Loan Currency: United StatesDollar
 Amount (US$m): 60.00
 Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:            Yes
 ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL)
 Commitment fee: 0.85% for the first 4 years (beginning Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                    60 days after loan signing), 0.75%       Paymentfor FEF: Capitalize from LoanProceeds
                    thereafter

 Initial choiceof Interest-ratebasis: Maintainas Variable
 Type of repayment schedule:
  [x] Fixedat Commitment,with the following repayment method (choose one): customized
  [ ] Linkedto Disbursement

 Conversionoptions: [XICurrency         [XIInterest Rate    [X]Caps/Collars:     Borrower to Pay from OwnResources

 FinancingPlan (US$m):           Source                              1      Local            Foreign             Total
                                                                                                                  40.00
                                                                               40'00
                                                                               30.00   1         30.00
                                                                                                  O'O0    1       60.00



 Responsible agency: STATE PLANNINGAND ENVIRONMENT SECRETARIAT
 SEPLAN
 Address: AANO - Esplanada das Secretarias - Centro, 77163-050, Palmas-TO
 Contact Person: Dr. Belizirio FrancoNet0
 Tel: 55-63-218 1097                  Fax: 55-63-218-1097                    Email: belifianco@seplan.to.gov.br
 Other Agency(ies):
 State Infrastructure Secretariat
 Address: Praqados Girassbis, Centro, 77003-902, Palmas TO   -
 Contact Person: Eng. Silvio Le20
 Tel: 55-63-218 1684                  Fax: 55-63-218-1690                    Email: dae@seinf.to.gov.br

- 2 -

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

 1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

U.      Introduction

The Bank has established an integrated dialogue with the state o f Tocantins to define, within the
Government's comprehensive development framework (the Plan0 Pluri-anual, PPA, see section 2.7 below)
and incomplementarity of existing development programs, the type o f assistance requiredto help the state
stimulate economic development and reduce poverty in a sustainable fashion. The dialogue is maintained
primarilywith the state's Secretariat of Planning, with other state Secretariats involved depending on the
topics discussed. A first round o f such discussions resulted in the definition o f the Bank's assistance
strategy for the state and in the framework for the implementation o f such strategy over the next four to
five years (see Annex 12, for a detailed description o f the Bank's State Assistance Strategy). The dialogue
will be continued during this period, through joint evaluation and monitoring o f the state development
programs (including projects administered or cofinanced by the Bank), organization, of, each year, one
joint supervision mission for all Bank activities under implementation, and o f follow-up overall discussions
to definejointly the scope o f future Bank activities inthe state.

The Bank's strategy emphasizes:

        integration and (inter-sectoral,       inter-government and spatial) coordination of public
        programs, through development o f decentralized and multisectoral planning processes with
        effective participation o f the poor, public-private partnerships and effective monitoring and
        evaluation;

        effective management and conservation of natural resources, through continuation and
        implementation o f the ago-ecological zoning o f the state, as an instrument for targeting public
        infrastructure investments, for guiding the decentralized planning processes, for establishing
        ecosystemconservation units, and for licensingpublic and private investments; and

        promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable activities which generate
        employment and income for the poor, by improving access o f rural communities to infrastructure
        services, particularly transport (access to markets, off-farm jobs, and education and health
        services), energy, and water and sanitation, and by scaling up, replicating successful sustainable
        developmentlpoverty reduction paths at the regional level (pilot production projects under the
        NRPP, etc.. .).

The Bank's strategy focuses on the four poorest regions o f the state, the North (also known as the Bico do
Pupuguio region), the Northeast, the East (also known as the Julupiio region), and the Southeast. These
four regions which, together, cover half of the state's area, represent a third o f the state's population, and
about halfthe municipalities, have the lowest indices o f human development (IDH) inthe state. The North,
which has the highestpopulation density, is among the poorest regions inBrazil.

The Bank's strategy will be implementedinan integrated fashion, to complement, leverage programs o f and
coordinate with existing partners especially in the areas o f sustainable and integrated rural development,
private enterprise development, cluster and logistics studies, SME development, support to development o f
local participatory mechanisms, environmental protection, and municipal management. Aside from the



                                                      - 3 -

Government and municipalities o f the state o f Tocantins, the main partners include the Japanese Bank for
Intemational Cooperation (JBIC), the U.K. Department for International Development (DFID), the local
managers o f the Programa Alvorada and o f the Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service
(SEBRAE), the federation o f industries o f the state o f Tocantins (FIETO), the Brazilian Institute for the
Protection o f the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), and the University o f
Tocantins.

The framework for the implementationo f the Bank's strategy includes an ongoingNaturalResources Policy
Project (NRPP) under the Pilot Project to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest (PPG7), this project, and a
proposed Tocantins Rural Poverty Reduction Project (TRPRP). The Tocantins Sustainable Regional
Development Project (TSRDP) includes a number o f features which have been designed to support the
Bank's strategy as a whole, and which will be used and, in some cases, further developed under the
proposed TRPRP, including definitiodconsolidation and operation o f participatory mechanisms at the local
level, set-up o f inter-municipal consortia, set up o f an integrated M&E for the state's public programs,
strengthening o fmunicipal managementcapacity and preparation o f municipal development strategies.

b.      Project Development Objective

The project was designed within the strategic framework described above. The project development
objective is to contribute to raising living standardsandto reducing inequalities and regional disparities by
improving access to markets, job opportunities, infrastructure and social services for rural communities in
Tocantins' poorest regions, while ensuring sustainableuse o f naturalresources andthe protection of fragile
ecosystems. This development objective is fully inline with the Government's comprehensive development
strategy, designed for a state in the process o f consolidating its institutions and public expenditures
programs (the state has been created 12 years ago, following separation from the state o f Goias), and
developing its economic potential (since 1994, the state's GDP has been growing at a rate above that o f
most other states in Brazil, and economy is expected to continue growing principally on the basis o f
agricultural and agro-industrial production, as well as eco-tourism).

Withinthe above strategic framework, the project will focus onthe actions neededat the state, regionaland
municipal levels, specifically:

        establish and/or strengthen participatory, multisectoral planning processes at the regional and
        municipal levels guided by agro-ecological zoning instruments, build local institutions, and
        promote public-private partnerships for better targeting o f public investment, effective delivery o f
        infrastructure services, and sustainable use o fnaturalresources;

        consolidate and expand the state's environmental protection system, refining the ago-ecological
        zoning instruments, strengthening land use and water resource monitoring, consolidating existing
        and establishingnew ecosystemconservation areas;

        increase the competitiveness and incomes of farmers in selected program areas with proven
        potentialfor sustainable growth by upgrading feeder road links to the main highway network; and

        improve access o f rural communities to markets, off-farm jobs, education and social services by
        upgrading and maintaining selectedmunicipal access roadnetworks to all-weather condition.




                                                     - 4 -

Insupporting the consolidation and expansion of the state's environmental protection system, the project
will build upon and expand the activities undertaken in the state through the NRPP, namely the
strengtheningo f the state environmental organization, the support to the decentralization o f environmental
management from the state to municipal levels, and the preparation o f a pilot integrated environmental
management project in the region o f the Bico de Papagaio, which will serve as basis to define the
agro-ecological zoning instruments (the design and implementation o f which will be financed under the
project) for the other regions o fthe state.

The TRPRP would complement the project by focusing on the actions needed at the community level, and
specifically:

        strengthen the capacity o f rural community associations to collectively define, implement and
        maintain     community projects, and o f consultative processes at municipal level to select
        sustainable, priority projects;

        increase incomes o f rural poor by providing technical assistance and grants to community
        associations for startingnew, sustainable, farmingor other productive projects;

        improve the well-being o f rural poor by providing technical assistance and grants to community
        associations for preparing and implementingselected community infrastructure projects;

        improve the conservation o f ecosystemsbyprovidingtechnical assistanceandgrants to community
        associations for preparing and implementing selected community environmental conservation or
        rehabilitation projects.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

   e    Increase insocial capital formation;

        Number o fvisits to health facilities and school attendance;

        Share o f cash crops intotal agricultural production;

        Price andtransport cost of selectedcommodities andinputs;

        Travel time to municipal and regional centers;

        Numbers of Municipal Development Fora established and operational,

        Numbers o fsatisfactory regional andmunicipal development plans or agendaprepared;

        Total area o f established state environmental conservation units;




                                                    - 5 -

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber:24182-BR             Date of latestCAS discussion: 06/13/02

The project has been prepared within the framework defined by the Bank's assistance strategy to Brazil
which was approved by the Board on March 30, 2000 and for which a progress report was discussed on
June 13, 2002. The overarching objective o f the Bank's assistance strategy for the 2000-2003 period has
been sustainable poverty reduction. The project will contribute to that objective by improving access to
markets,job opportunities, infrastructure and social services for rural communities inTocantins' poorest
regions, while ensuring sustainableuse o fnaturalresources andthe protection o f fragile ecosystems.

The project is presented together with the new Bank assistancestrategy for Brazil, covering the 2004-2007
period. The new strategy emphasizes the need for integrated and simultaneous action on the economic and
social fronts that bringinteractive gains, toward a more equitable, sustainable and competitive Brazil. The
four main objectives o f the new strategy are: (i)fostering investments inpeople; (ii)improvingmanagement
of natural resources and provision o f local services; (iii)   spurring economic growth, and (iv) ensuring
macroeconomic stability and strengthening governance.          The strategy will be implemented primarily
through a combination o f policy-based programmatic adjustment lending, sector-wide approaches
(SWAPS), and increasingly selective and integrated investment lending at the sub-national level. This
project, through its design and the way it was prepared, fully mirrors the new strategy's objectives. In
particular, the project is an example o f collaboration at the state level towards an integrated development
strategy, with Bank lendingdesigned to respond to multi-sectoral challenges. Similar efforts are underway
ina numbero fother states. This approach is expected to be a primaryavenue of Bank support inthe new
CAS period.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1.     State Geography. The state o f Tocantins was created under the 1988 constitution, by separating
the northem part o f the state of Goiis. It was incorporated into Brazil's northem region; it is part of the
so-called "Legal Amazonia".        But it is actually a zone of transition between the high plains of the
Center-West cerrudos to the south andthe humidplains o f eastemAmazonia to the northeast. The physical
aspects o f the state are characterized by two major rivers, the Araguaia, which flows along the state's
westem borders with Mato Grosso and Para, and the Tocantins. The climate is tropical, hot and humid,
with a dry season from June to October. Most o f the state's territory is covered with savanna (cerrudo);
small areas o f tropical rain forest remain along the Araguaia river, and areas o f semi-decidual forests
remain inthe North and the Southeast. The state i s sparsely populated with a population o f 1.1 millionover
an area of 277,000 km2.

2.2.     Economy. The state o f Tocantins has come up a long way since its creation in 1989. Having
grown at about 10%p.a. from 1990 to 1993, and 25% p.a. from 1994 to 2000, the state's GDP per capita,
from beingthe lowest in 1990, is now higher than those o f the states o f Maranhlo andPiaui (at R$2,110 in
2000). Most o f this increase is due to superior GDP growth, especially over the 1994-2000 period, where
the state has had the fifth fastest growing economy inBrazil. However, the state's GDP per capita remains
far below anational average ofR$6,473 in2000, andthe contribution ofthe state's GDP (R$2.1 billion in
2000) to the national GDP remains marginal, at 0.22%. The main economic activity i s extensive cattle
farming together with traditional subsistence agriculture. Recently, however, commercial agriculture has
developed inthe central and southwestem regions. The Prodecer program, with assistance from Japan, i s



                                                      - 6 -

contributing to expand soybean production inthe central region; and the Rio Formoso program is helping
increase irrigated cultivation o frice and other crops inthe southwest. With its vast areas o f farmable land,
abundant water resources, and a favorable climate, many regions o f the state have good natural conditions
for sustainable agriculture.   The state's economic development objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
and meat production, through the development o f an economically and environmentally-sustainable
agriculture where feasible and protection o f fragile ecosystems; (b) expand the agro-industrial sector and
promote exports; and (c) develop tourism activities as a complement to environmental conservation
programs. The Government's strategy emphasizes the creation o f a business environment conducive to
private sector investment in regions or program areas with proven potential for sustainable agriculture,
cattle-farming and/or tourism. It promotes the decentralization of the decision-making process for public
investment, seeking to involve the key stakeholders and to build public-private partnerships in support o f
regional and local priorities.

2.3.     Poverty. In terms of number o f poors relatively to total population, Tocantins is the seventh
poorest state in Brazil. In 1999, the state's average per capita income was about R$1,900 (US$543
equivalent) p.a., well below Brazil average o f about US$3,200 (US$914 equivalent) p.a.. A large
proportion o f the state population (56%) lives under the poverty line with an income o f less than R$100
(US$26 equivalent) per month; and 25% actually live under the extreme poverty line, with less than half
this income. Poverty is worse inrural areas, with 68% o f the ruralpopulation living under the poverty line.
Tocantins is one o f Brazil's most equal state, with a Gini coefficient o f 0.56. The state's 2000 municipal
human development index (IDH-M) is estimated at 0.72, below Brazil average (0.76). This composite
index (basically, the UnitedNations HumanDevelopment Indexcomputed at the municipal level) combines
various socioeconomic indices which reflect education, access to health, water and other basic
infrastructure services. There are also significant regional disparities. For example, the northem region o f
the state has a per capita income o f less than US$300 equivalent p.a. and the average IDH-Mis 0.6. The
poorest regions o f the state (which are included inthe proposed projects) are among the poorest regions in
Brazil.

2.4.     Infrastructure. The lack o f basic infrastructure has been a bottleneck to the more rapid
development o f the state's agricultural potential. When created, the state had only 300 km o f paved roads
besides the Brasilia - Belbm federal highway. Over 4,000 km have now beenpaved; and with the gradual
improvement o f navigation on the Tocantins river and the construction o f the North-South railway, the
competitiveness o f the state's agriculture is expected to further increase. But there are still regions with
sustainable development potential which do not have all-weather access to the trunk network. And many
rural communities do not have all-weather access to municipal centers. Access to energy has been limited
to the main towns and to their vicinity. With the completion o f the hydropower plant at Lajeado and with
the ongoingrural electrificationprogram, however, accessto energy will be substantially increasedinmost
regions.    But expanding the economic infrastructure to new areas with potential for sustainable
development and ensuring effective and equitable delivery o f infrastructure services to rural communities
remains a key priority inthe Government's strategy (section 2.7).

2.5.     Environment. Most of the state falls into the "Cerrado" (savanna) biome o f central Brazil, which
is generally suitable for cattle ranching and agriculture, but the latter usually only after heavy investments
insoil correction and, incertainplaces, irrigation, andonly where landforms are suitable. Fruitproduction
is also an altemative in the Cerrado. So far, the predominant land use has been ranching, and agriculture
has developed only more recently (soybean, maize, rice, etc.) on about 2% o f the state's area. The northem
region is at the transition to the Amazon biome, with denser rain forest, much o f which has already been
cleared. It has somewhat better conditions for agriculture than the Cerrado sub-regions, particularly for
cultivation o f perennial crops. It has been the focus o f intense land conflicts and also o f land reform


                                                     - 7 -

settlement efforts in the past. It also provides income to many poor families as a source o f extractivist
products, such as babassu nuts. The main concem is with degradation o f soils from unsustainable
production, alteration o f hydrological regimes and clearing o f remaining forests, including gallery forests.
The thinly populated, sandy and dry Jalaplo region inthe central-eastem portion o f the state is recognized
as fragile andhaving low potential for either ranching or agriculture, and is likely to be usedonly for some
fruit production, ecosystem protection and tourism.    Recognizing the fragility o f the ecosystem, both the
Federal and State Governments have established protected areas, includingtwo areas o f integral protection
(the federal Estap?o Ecolbgica Serra Geral do Tocantins, covering 716,000 ha and part o f the state
Parque do JalapGo, covering 159,000 ha) and an area o f restricted use (the state Area de ProteqCo
Ambiental do Jalap60, englobing about 300,000 ha. o f the state Parque do Jalap6o). These areas
(representing about 30% o f the Jalap60 region) include all areas identified as environmentally sensitive in
that region. The southeast o f the state shows a highly diverse mosaic o f land use. Soils have little fertility,
but are suitable for ranchingand some limitedagriculture inshort rotations. Several small areas have been
proposed for ecosystemprotection. A main concem inthis region is soil erosion.

The agro-ecological zoning of the state, which was preparedunder the Bank-finance Second State Highway
Management Project (Loan 3714-BR) and is being detailed in the northem region under the natural
resources policy project (NRPP) is an important instrument for the preparation o f the Government's
regional development programs. It is among the best efforts to date among Brazilian States to survey, map
and document the physical characteristics o f the various sub-regions. As a result, the State o f Tocantins
has produced a remarkably clear vision of future land use, albeit inbroad categories and at a small scale,
including areas slated for some form o f ecosystem protection. Progress was made in preparing for the
zoning implementationunder the NRPP, includingbuildingup some environmental managementcapacity in
pilot municipios in the Bico do Papagaio and preparing the more detailed zoning o f the region through a
participatory process.

The Government's environmental strategy, which is based on the lessons learned under the above pilot
projects, is to effectively implement the zoning through a mix of economic instruments, regulations,
licensing, supervision and monitoring activities. It particularly involves consolidating and expanding the
state's environmental protectionsystem, refining the agro-ecological zoning instruments, strengthening land
use and water resource monitoring, rehabilitating andor preserving riparian forest, and consolidating
existing and establishing new ecosystemprotection areas, inpart under this project (section 3.2). The areas
proposed by the state for ecosystemhiodiversity protection are inline with the priority areas identified by
the 1998 biome-level workshop for the Cerrado funded by GEF through the Bank. Priorities under the
NRPP will now focus on completing the detailed zoning o f the Bico de Papagaioregion, on buildingup an
environmental capacity in 10 pilot municipios, on preparing master plans in two pilot municipios, and on
designing appropriate economic instruments to support the zoning implementation. The TRPRP would
build on the experience developed under the NRPP and the PPG7 Demonstration Projects by providing
adequate training and technical assistance to commuriities and municipal councils for sustainable
production projects, and will provide incentives, inthe form o f a reduced community cost share, for a new
category o f projects which aim at the recuperation o f degraded areas and the sustainable use o f natural
resources.

2.6.     State Fiscal Situation. The state is one o f the few having a fiscal situation rated as "A"by the
National Treasury, which means that the fiscal situation is sound, especially when compared to that o f
other states. The state has been able to comply with all fiscal limits agreed upon annually with the
National Treasury, within the framework provided by the Law on Fiscal Responsibility (LFR). Tax
revenues have increased 1.6 fold since 1990 which, together with increasing contributions from the Federal
Government and from extemal credit operations, resulted ina doubling o f state revenues. However, further


                                                    - 8 -

increase intax revenues is expected to be modest, giventhe state's small tax base and low ability to pay o f
its contributors. On the expenditures side, a remarkable feature is the low participation o f personnel costs,
at about 34% o f net current revenues (well below the 60% limit specified inthe LFR). This, asides from
allowing for muchneededcapital expenditures for the state's development, ensures a greater fiscal stability
than inmost other states, allowingthe state to gradually reach fiscal balance, and since 1998, has generated
increasing primary surpluses. Debt levels have remained low, representing, at the end o f 2001, less than
0.12% o f the debt o f all states, and about 40% o f the state's net current revenues. Debt i s serviced andpaid
normally. However, a substantial part o f the debt is extemal, which makes debt and debt payment levels
sensitive to exchange rate variations. Inparticular, the significant devaluation o f the R$ over the last two
years has contributed to the increase o f the ratio o f debt payment to net current revenues, bringingit close
to the LRF limit in 2003. This situation is expected, under conservative assumptions (assuming that the
US$ will remain strong vis-a-vis the R$ on the short- to medium-term, and a slow growth o f state net
current revenues), to persist over the next two years, thus limitingthe potential for growth o f the state debt
stock over that period (see Annex 12).

2.7.      Development Framework. The previous Government prepared a comprehensive development
framework for the State (PPA 2000-2003), consistent with the PPA for the Federation.                   The new
administration, which has taken office on January 1, 2003, will prepare a new PPA for 2004-2007 which
would follow the broad objectives and policies o f the previous administration. The State PPA emphasizes
freedom o f initiative and social justice,     environmental sustainability, and a broad participation o f all
segments o f society inthe development process. It is structured around five major objectives:

    0     Promote sustainable economic growth, with priority to the agricultural, agro-industrial and
          eco-tourism sectors;

    0     Reducepoverty, social inequity, andregional disparities;

    0     Consolidate the state's infrastructure, particularly inthe transport and energy sectors;

    0     Strengthenthe public administration, emphasizing sound fiscal management; and

    0     Enforce human rights and reduce crime and violence.

For each o f these objectives, the PPA specifies policies, programs andbudgets. Overall, there are 144state
programs o f an aggregatedcost o f R$ 11billion over four years. About half o f this amount i s expected to
come from private sources, 35% from the state budget, 8% from the federal budget, and 7% from
borrowings. The state resources would be allocated primarily and equally to the social and infrastructure
programs (about 40% each), to support economic growth (15%) and to public administration and safety
(5%).

The Government's strategy to achieve both sustainable economic growth and reduction o f poverty and
regional disparities emphasizes increasing the productivity o f sustainable agriculture in poverty-targeted
program areas with proven potential for sustainable development, and the competitiveness o f their
products. This is to be achieved through a mix o f public infrastructure (mainly transport and rural
electrification), community infrastructure and microfinance, environmental conservation, and social
programs, which include programs aimed at eradicating illiteracy, improving labor qualification, increasing
schooling andthe quality o fprimary education, and at improvingwater and sanitation.




                                                       - 9 -

3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices:
3.1      Public expenditure planningand management, decentralization and participation

The design and implementation o f public expenditure programs have traditionally been highly centralized
inTocantins, as inmost ifnot all the other states inBrazil. State programs are generally prepared sector
by sector, and managed by State Secretariats, with little or no involvement o f or consultation with
municipal governments, the business community, or local beneficiaries. As a result, there is a multiplicity
o f public programs with little coordination among the three levels o f government and even among the
sectorial programs o f a given government. There has particularly been a lack o f spatial coordinationamong
public sector programs, which led to poor results on the ground and less than efficient use o f public
resources. The poor state o f public infrastructure, together with Brazil's complex tax and labor regulations
ledto the current, unfavorable climate for private sector investment.

In line with the strategic objectives of the PPA, the Government has recently launched a number of
initiatives to decentralize the planning andmanagemento fpublic programs, increasing public consultations
and private sector participation, and strengthening the capacities of municipios and communities to
participate inthe process. Inparticular, the pilot Project for the Sustainable Development o f the Southeast
Region o f the state, implemented using the DLIS methodology (see section C.3),           is building up and
training development fora in each o f the 23 municipios as well as a regional forum to promote
public-private partnerships and effective community participation inelaborating local and regional agendas
for sustainable, integrated development. Development agendas have been substantially completed for
already 20 o f the 23 municipios. A similar pilot project was started in 12 municipios o f the Northem
Region. Also, technical assistancehas been contracted under the NRPP to assist with the establishment o f a
regional development council (CONDER) for the Northem Region. The Government intends to formulate
its decentralization strategy on the basis o f the experience with these two pilot projects, and thereafter
expandit to the other regions o fthe state, includingthe other two regions ofthe proposedproject.

Municipal road network improvements to be financed under the project (as well as the community and
municipal water supply/sanitation investments to be financed under the TRPRP) will be prioritized by the
municipal fora established and trained under the above-mentioned two pilot and subsequent projects,
subject to satisfactory representation o f the various stakeholders, in particular rural poor communities.
The project will contribute to build local capacity for participatory planning and for project analysis,
design, execution, operation and maintenance, to ensure the feasibility and sustainability o f projects,
building on the experience developed under the pilot projects and the NRPP. The project will provide
technical assistanceand training to municipal fora and regional councils to buildup their key planning and
monitoring functions, to carry out logistics, competitiveness and feasibility studies, to promote
public-private partnerships, and specific-purpose inter-municipal consortia for sustainable infrastructure
service delivery.

3.2      Naturalresourcemanagement

Within the Government's environmental strategic framework described in section 2.5, the project will
contribute to the effective implementation o f the zoning in several ways. First, on the basis o f the
experience acquired and lessonslearned inpreparing the detailedzoning o f the Bico do Pupuguio under the
NRPP, the project will help SEPLAN to prepare detailed economic-ecological zoning (ZEE) plans in all
regions o f the state, and an ago-climatic zoning for the intensive production areas. These more detailed
regional zonings will provide effective instruments for the proposed decentralized and participatory
planningprocesses, for environmental impact assessments, licensing and land use and impact monitoring



                                                     -10-

activities. Second, the project will help prepare management plans for, and establish the six most urgent o f
the eleven identified conservation units (UC). With this subcomponent, the project will contribute to
increase the total aggregated protected areas to over 20% o f the state's surface. Third, the project would
help establish the first phase of a climate andwater resource monitoring system. Fourth, the project will
help introduce economic and regulatory instruments for implementation of landmanagement policies, and
carry out environmental education campaigns. It is expected that cofinancing o f this project component
would be sought from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) - fbnded Progrumu Nucionul de
Biodiversidude to: (i)improve natural resources management and land use practices, both at the
agroecosystem (landholdings) and ecosystem (natural areas within landholdings andwithinprotected areas
levels).; (ii)define ecological corridors to link existing protected areas, generally through protection o f
remaining forests along river banks; (iii)introduce sustainable (both ecologically and financially)
production technologies within protected areas' buffer zones, and establish appropriate financing
mechanisms to ensure adoption o f these technologies (e.g. microcredit schemes); and (iv) establish and
adequately manage new ecological corridors andprotected areas.

3.3      State economicinfrastructureprograms:

 State infrastructure programs have essentially focused on building large economic infrastructure projects.
 A trunk highway network of over 4,000 km has been paved during the last ten years, in part under the
 Bank-financed Second State Highway Management Project (Loan no. 3714-BR).                    However, network
 density remains very low (the road network composition is presented inthe table below). The construction
 o f the North-South railway (a federal project) is proceeding south into northern Tocantins. A major
 hydropower plant (850 MW) is being completed at Lajeado under a BOT scheme; it already supplies
 energy to Tocantins, and will soon supply to other states through the recently-completed North-South and
 other transmission lines. It is expected that, with the completion o f the Lajeado hydropower plant,
 production will exceedby as much as 40% consumptionwithin the state. Several large irrigation schemes
 are underway in various regions, including Sumpuio in the extreme North. But the government is now
 placing more attention      to building efficient, connected infrastructure networks         and to effectively
 maintaining the existing systems. Inparticular, the rural electrification program will bringenergy to rural
 communities in most regions (see section 3.4). But there are still many regions or program areas with
 sustainable development potential which do not have all-weather access to the trunk road network. And
 the maintenance condition o f the existing state highway network, which is still carried out essentially by
 force account, is not fully effective, as the state still needs to complete the transition from a infrastructure
 development mode to a infrastructure development and maintenance mode.

                                       Road Network Composition (km)
                          FederalRoads       I     State Roads        I  Municipal Roads      I
                        Paved INon-paved) Paved /Non-pavedl Paved INon-pave
                        1022 *   I   351     I   3,341     I  5,568   I    0      I 80,000
                      * of which 357 km coincide with existing paved state roads

 The project will improve the efficiency o f state road programs by optimizing the allocation o f resources
 among programs and projects, ensuring adequate priority to maintenance, by helping contract out the
 maintenance o f the paved network through long-term output-based contracts, and by providing resources
 to implement an efficient program for the improvement to appropriate, low-cost standards o f secondary
 and feeder roads linking poor areas with sustainable development potential to the trunk network. Inview
 o f the substantial investments recently made in power generation and transmission, and o f the resources
 available under the rural electrification program, the project will not include investments in the power
 sector. But the priorities for rural infrastructure investments ingeneral, including rural electrification and


                                                      -11 -

secondary and feeder roads will be increasingly defined by the regional and municipal fora or councils
followingthe above-mentioned participatorymethodology.

The consistency o f the proposed infrastructure programs with the environmental strategy will be ensured
through the effective implementation of the ago-ecological zoning, as described in section 3.2 above. In
particular, SEPLAN will continue to target priority program areas with sustainable development potential,
identified on the basis o f the zoning and specific production and market studies; as well as priority areas
for environmental conservation. State infrastructure programs and projects will be identified accordingly,
andsubject to rigorous screening (based on the zoning) and assessmentsof environmentalrisks. Withthe
more detailed regional zoning plans to be prepared under the project, SEPLAN, the regional councils and
municipal fora will have increasingly detailed information to identifypriority state, regional andultimately
municipal infrastructure programs andprojects.

3.4     Ruraleconomic infrastructure services

Economic infrastructure services are o f poor quality or nonexistent inmost rural areas o f Tocantins, as in
most other states in the North and Northeast. The economic infrastructure index (INFE), which is an
indicator o f access to goods and services and to electric power, is particularly low inthe project's regions
and municipalities. The extensive surveys and consultations carried out by the government inmonitoring
andevaluating the PPA, as well as Bank surveys and reports on rural poverty, show that the rural poor
consider the lack of adequate infrastructure services as a major cause o f the poor quality o f their lives and
an important factor in the decision o f young adults to migrate to cities. They generally identify rural
transport, electricity and irrigation as the most critical services, since their absence or poor quality result
into the low productivity o f their small farms, the poor competitiveness o f their products, their limited
access to education, health, markets andother services available inmunicipal centers. The lack o f reliable
ruraltransport, inparticular, is affecting both child school attendanceand the efficiency and quality o f the
education system (since it requires establishing many small schools in isolated rural communities, often
with unqualified teachers, rather than one good school inthe municipal and district centers). It is also
affecting access o f rural adults, particularly women, to jobs available inurban centers, as well as access
of landlessrural workers @bias-frias) to farmjobs.

A rural electrification program is underway inthe entire state of Tocantins. It is partly financed by JBIC
and the Luz no Campo federal program, and implemented by the privatized power distribution company
(CELTINS). The program aims to extend power to almost 20,000 farms. But because of the counterpart
funding required from users, many rural households, particularly the poorest and those living far away
from the main line, are unable to participate in the program. The TRPRP will provide rural communities
opportunities to participate, with additional resources, in the rural electrification program, as well as to
design and implement local irrigation schemes.

Overwhelmingly, the municipal rural road networks are inpoor condition. With the exception of the larger
municipalities, whch have acquired some equipment o f their own to carry out civil works, most
municipalities do not have any capacity to maintain their roads. The state government, through DERTINS,
on request from mayors, i s providing assistance, allocating some o f its road maintenance crews and
equipment to the maintenance o f municipal roads. The beneficiary municipalities generally contribute with
the necessarydiesel fuel and crew per diems. But these arrangements, which are decided centrally case by
case, often on the basis o fpolitical considerations, are less than efficient since they affect the operations o f
DERTINS on the state network and have limited results on the ground.                  The project will provide
resources to: (i)establish and strengthen intermunicipal road consortia, with technical support from
DERTINS; (ii)   upgrade the most important municipal roads, as identified by the municipal fora under the


                                                    -12-

above-mentioned municipal development agenda exercises, to all-weather condition, essentially by
building bridges and culverts; and (iii)maintain a sustainable network of municipal rural roads to
minimumlevels of service permitting all-weather access of rural communities to municipal centers. The
TRPRP will complement these investments by providing resources to rural communities to improve and
maintain community roads, and possibly to acquire appropriate transport equipment. In addition, an
assessment will be made o f the demandfor and supply o f rural transport services inthe project's regions,
focusing on the needs o f the poor and o f the students. The project may include resources to promote
appropriate ruraltransport servicesto meet such identified needs.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project will be comprised o f the followingthree components:
   1. aparticipatoryplanning and management of regional and municipal development component,
       to (a) establish andor strengthen mechanisms for local civil society participation to define and
       monitor municipal and regional development agendas. Municipal development fora (MDFs) have
       been or will be formed in all municipalities in the four regions targeted by the project, and pilot
       regional development councils (CONDERs) will be set up in the Bico de Papagaio and Sudeste
       regions; (b) set up, in each region targeted by the project, regional units o f SEPLAN (regional
       technical units or UT&) to assist inthe strengthening o f planningand management capacity at the
       regional, inter-municipal and municipal levels; and (c) strengthen the state's capacity to undertake
       multisectoral state-level planning, to administer public programs, and monitor/evaluate the
       performance o f such programs.
   2. an environmental management component, to (a) strengthen the state's land management
        capacity, through the undertakingo f detailed regional ecologico-economic zonings inall regions o f
       the state, and strengthening o f DZE's analytical/monitoring capacity; (b) consolidate the state's
        environmental protection system, through the creation of 6 protected areas, collection o f data on
       the state's main surface and subterraneanwater resources, and strengthening o f the state's climatic
        and hydrological monitoring system; and (c) support the regulation and promotion of sustainable
        land use, through definition of adequate incentives, economic and regulatory instruments for
        implementation o f landmanagementpolicies, definition andimplementationo f licensing procedures
        for rural properties, and improvement o ftechnological support to small producers.
   3. a rural transport improvement component, to (a) strengthen the state's road management
        capacity, by ensuring the preparation, monitoring and evaluation o f efficient state road programs,
        and gradually increasing the state's road maintenance capacity, including introduction o f
       performance-based maintenance contracts, decentralization o f maintenance activities through
        creation o f new districts and development o f maintenance capacity at the municipal or
       inter-municipal level; (b) define in a participatory fashion and improve, to all-weather condition,
        about 6,000 km o f priority road sections o f the main municipal roadnetworks and improve about
        120 km of high-priority state feeder roads linking the main municipal networks to the state's
       primary transport network. Improvements on the main municipal networks will consist of the
       reconstruction o f (less than 30 m. long) bridges and (re)-construction o f culverts, while
        improvement o f high-priority state feeder roads will consist o f rehabilitation o f road surface, when
       necessary rehabilitatiodreconstruction o f road base, and when economically justified paving o f
       road surface; (c) promote cost-effective rural transport services, particularly school bus systems,
       and establish mechanisms to improve access o f the rural poor to such services; and (d) provide
       support to the project coordination unit.



                                                   - 13-

Promotion of participative planning mechanisms

In order to provide appropriate incentives for implementing the proposed participative planning
mechanisms for sustainable local development, approval o f municipal roadnetwork improvement activities
will be subject to presentation to the Bank of: (i) proposed municipal agenda for sustainable local
                                                       the
development; (ii)  a copy o f the convenio signed between the state and the municipios for the realization o f
the improvement works on the municipio's road network; (iii)     the minutes o f the discussions held with the
municipal development forum on the selection and prioritization of the road sections on which
improvements are to be made; and (iv) ajustification o f the selection andprioritization o f the road sections,
and description o f the works proposed to be camed out. No latter than July 1, 2005, the Borrower will
communicate to the Bank the list o f municlIpios for which the above documentation has not yet been
prepared, and present the options to resolve the issues at hand. No latter than July 1, 2006, the Borrower
will submit to the Bank a proposal for redistribution to best performing municlIpios o f the amounts
allocated to municbios for which the above documentation could not be completed in a satisfactory
fashion. For improvement o f state feeder roads, approval o f road improvement activities will be subject to
presentation to the Bank of, inter alia, evidence o f stakeholders' participation in the definition o f the road
section and related improvement activities.        The process to be followed for the identification and
justification o f municipal and state road subprojects and preparation o f related bidding documents,
including the steps at which Bankreview will be required, is detailedinAnnex 2.


                                                                 Indicative                   Bank-          % of
                          Component                                costs        % of       financing        Bank-
                                                                  (US$M)       Total         (US$M)       financing
 1. ParticipatoryPlanningand Management o fRegional and               7.70          7.7         6.50          10.8
 MunicipalDevelopment
 2. Environmental Management                                         12.70         12.7        10.20          17.0
 3. RuralTransport Improvement                                       79.00         79.0        42.70          71.2
                                           Total Project Costs       99.40         99.4        59.40          99.0




2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
The project will support the following policy and institutional reforms:

   0     decentralized, participatory planning for sustainable rural development;

   0     more efficient and transparent local governance with strong participation o f civil society;

   0     increasing private sector participationinroadmaintenance and rehabilitation through output-based
         contracts;

   0     rationalizationand optimization o f state'sroad expenditures program;

   0     increasedefficiency o fpublic development programs; and




                                                     - 14-

    0    consolidationand expansion o f state`s system for protectingnatural resources andbiodiversity.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The regional development planning and rural infrastructure management components are expected to
increase social capital (through introduction o f decentralized and participatory planning mechanisms
according to the DLIS method, see note below), improve the quality, targeting and coordination o f public
expenditure programs (through preparation andmonitoring o f regional and local development agendas) and
the quality and efficiency of rural infrastructure services (through introduction o f concessions and
output-based programs). It will therefore contribute to an improved investment climate and to sustainable
andequitable economic growth.

The environmental management component is expected to contribute to a more effective and sustainable
use o f the state's natural resources (through detailed zonings and introduction o f economic andregulatory
instruments), and to the conservation o f its fragile ecosystems (through establishment and consolidation o f
conservation units), which will benefit hture generations.

The rural transport improvement component is expected to help reduce freight and passenger transport
costs, charges and time, and to improve the reliability o f transport services, particularly inthe rainy season.
Cheaper and more reliable freight transport services in areas with potential for sustainable agriculture in
turn are expected to increase farm productivity, product competitiveness and production, and diversify
crops. Cheaper and more reliable passengertransport services are also expected to improve access o f rural
population to education, health services, and to job opportunities, particularly for women andlandlessrural
workers @bias frias), increasing the productivity, income and well-being o f rural communities. Also,
reliable transport services would have indirect impacts on the efficiency and quality o f many public
services; for example, the numerous small schools established inisolated rural communities could then be
consolidated into the few major district andmunicipal schools.

The target population will be the rural communities established in the state's four poorest regions.       State
road subprojects in the four regions will be selected through the decentralized and participatory regional
planning process supported by component 1 o f the project, and investments will be optimized through the
cost-benefit analyses described in Annex 4. Municipal road network subprojects will be selected through
the municipal development fora as part of the preparation of the municipal agendas for sustainable local
development. Project funds will be allocated to municbios on the basis o f a simple formula combining the
municipios' areas and rural populations.

Note: Civil society will be involved in the elaboration o f municipal and regional development agendas,
through procedures o f the Local, Integrated and Sustainable Development @LIS) methodology, which
includes the following steps: (a) creation and animation o f a development forum open to all members o f
civil society; (b) training o f the forum members on the basic principles underlying local, integrated, and
sustainable development; (c) elaboration by the forum members o f a diagnostic o f the local development
potential and key obstacles to realize this potential; (d) preparation o f the local development agenda, and
(e) responsabilization o f the forum members to ensure the implementation o f the agenda. With support
from the project, municipalities will be able to improve efficiency o fpublic expenditures, include more civil
society in decision-making processes, and make better use o f available state and federal development
programs.




                                                     - 15-

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
The State o f Tocantins will be the Borrower and the Federative Republic o f Brazil the Guarantor. The
implementation o f the project will be undertaken through three executing agencies, namely: (i)     SEPLAN's
Planning Direction (DPL), for the implementation o f the Participatory Planning and Management o f
Regional and Municipal Development component; (ii)SEPLAN's Direction for Ecologico-Economic
Zoning (DZE), for the implementation o f the Environmental Management component; and (iii)SEINF's
Highway Department (DERTINS),             for the implementation o f the Rural Transport Improvement
component. A project implementation unit (GergnciaAdministrativa do Projeto, GAP)established under
SEINF's Directorate for Strategic Support (DAE), will coordinate and monitor all project activities,
including procurement planning, scheduling, monitoring and reporting, disbursement and internal controls,
maintenance o fproject accounts and preparation o f project management reports. Inaddition, the Borrower
has created a project committee (Gerincia Operacionaldo Projeto, GOP), composed o f the heads of each
executing agencies, GAP andrepresentatives o f SEPLAN and SEINF, to ensure adequate coordination and
monitoring o f project activities. More details are provided inAnnex 6.

Monitoring and Evaluation

The objective of the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) subcomponent o f the project is to serve as a basis
to: (i)strengthen the existing state capacity to track and analyze the evolution o f the socio-economic
situation at the local level; and (ii) gradually, develop a capacity for systematic monitoring and evaluation
o f public programs, starting with the project, and the proposed TRPRP. By incorporating monitoring and
evaluation early into the design o f projects, it will be possible to obtain results in a timely fashion so that
the findings can be used to improve project operations, as necessary. To this end, a joint mid-termreview
will be undertaken to determine the efficiency o f projects inreaching their objectives, and modifying, if
necessary, the design o f certain projects components andor targeting.

The M&E subcomponentwill provide for:

    0    the undertaking o f surveys, which will collect the data needed to evaluate the specific impact o f
         rural transport improvements under the project and, more generally, to track the evolution o f key
         socio-economic indicators. These data will complement the already existing database o f
         socio-economic indicators at the local level; and

    0    the provision o f technical assistance, training and equipment to strengthen the capacity of
         SEPLAN's Research and InformationDepartment (DPI, under the DPL), to collect, compute and
         analyze socio-economic indicators, and to develop a methodology for the undertaking o f M&E of
         specific public programs.

The above will help: (i) up government's ownership in the evaluation process; and (ii) the
                            build                                                                    ensure
sustainability o fthe institutional strengtheningefforts within the Diretoria de Pesquisas.

The methodology for the monitoring and evaluation has been developed on the basis o f the methodology
already prepared for the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects o f the Northeast, as well as best practice
elsewhere (e.g. impact evaluation o f the Bank-financedVietnam Transport Project). The following provides
a summary o fthis methodology (see Annex 11for details).

A monitoring system will be developed to track progress in the implementation of project activities to
ensure that plannedtargets are met, to identifyproblems and accomplishments and to undertake or promote



                                                     - 16-

appropriate actions to improve project implementation. The GAP will be in charge o f project monitoring
based on project information provided by the project management system, field visits and inputs from
project supervision reports, project-contracted studies and audits.

Evaluation studies will be designed and implemented to assess the performance o f the project in terms o f
the stated objectives, and to provide appropriate feedback to improve project operations. In particular,
these studies will assess three inter-related dimensions o f the performance of eachproject:

     1. targeting: whether project interventions actually reached its intended beneficiaries, i.e. the rural
         poor;

    2. institutional impact: whether the project increased institutional capacity and social capital at each
         jurisdictional level; and

    3. socioeconomic impact: whether the project improvedliving standards.

The analysis o f project targeting will assess whether the mechanisms used by the project to allocate
resources actually served to reach the poor. The institutional analysis will assess how the project serves to
enhance social capital in beneficiary communities, municipalities and regions (e.g. number of community
associations, municipal foras and regional councils formed, their activities and degree o f participation). It
will also examine the performance and capacity o f community associations, municipal foras and regional
councils and technical units at the State level. The socioeconomic assessment o f the project will be based
on a carefully designed impact evaluation framework and data from a baseline and follow-up surveys. The
impact evaluation framework will include the following components: (i)      operationalization o f (1) above in
terms o f measurable impact indicators, reflecting both the direct effects (e.g. improved access to work,
markets and services) andindirect effects (e.g. increases inincome andother dimensions o f well-being such
as health and education) o f project interventions; identification o f the unit o f analysis for each type o f
intervention; identification o f the appropriate impact evaluation methodology; and an assessment o f data
availability and dataneeds consistent with the above.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:

Designing an integrated rural development project: An altemative to the project was to prepare an
integrated rural development project, with multi-sectorial investments.            However, experience in
implementing and evaluating the impact o f such projects has been at best mixed, due mainly to the
increased complexity o f implementation arrangements across sectors, technical and sustainability issues
when the responsible government agencies are bypassed, and difficulties o f these projects to have a
substantial andlong-term developmental impact. As such, this altemative was discarded early on. Instead,
the proposed project aims at nurturing a continuous dialogue with the Government, stakeholders and
beneficiaries to determine how best to complement and enhance ongoing activities under the Government's
rural development programs. This dialogue will be maintainedthrough the preparation and implementation
o f municipal and regional development agendas, and strengthening o f local institutional capacity, and
identification o f the physical investments to be funded under the project ina single sector, where needs are
particularly large, anda consensusexists on how to addressthese needs.

Preparing a combined local community development and rural infrastructure project: the original project
proposal combined four components, namely road improvement, environmental management, institutional


                                                     -17-

decentralization, and community infrastructure. However, following discussions between the Bank and the
Brazilian Government, it was agreedthat the community infrastructure component shouldbe presentedas a
separate project

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingandplanned).




                                                                            Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)   Objective(DO)

Roadsector management and                Goihs State Highway                      S                S
decentralization                         Management Project (P055954;
                                         ongoing)
Rural poverty alleviation                RuralPoverty Reduction                   S                S
                                         Projects (various, ongoing)
Environmental management                  Second State Highway                    S                S
strengthening                            Management Project (P006555;
                                          completed)
Regional and local capacity               Minas Municipal Development             S                S
strengthening                             (P006524; ongoing)
                                         Bahia Municipal Development              S                S
                                          (P006562; ongoing)
%her development agencies
IDB:Improvemunicipaltax                   Support to Programa Nacional
managementcapacity                        de Apoio h Administraggo
                                          Fiscal para os Municipios
                                          Brasileiros (PNAFM) (ongoing)
PPG7: Regional development planning Estudo de Desenvolvimento do
                                          Setor Agropecuhrio da Regia0
                                         Norte do Estado do Tocantins
                                          (completed)
                                                                            (Highly Unsatis ICtOry)

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the project design:
The following important lessons leamed from past experience of the Bank in implementing this type o f
project have been incorporated into the design andpreparation o fthe project:

   0    Particioation of beneficiaries: experience in Brazil and elsewhere has demonstrated that
        involvement o f civil society and potential beneficiaries in the design, implementation and
        monitoring o f local development and poverty reduction activities is fundamental to maximize the
        project's impact, in terms o f matching the needs o f the municipalities and communities, ensuring
        ownership, and sustaining project's impacts over the long term. As such, the project will support
        involvement o f all stakeholders, including civil society and potential beneficiaries in developing,
        implementing and monitoring local development plans (see section E.6 for more details).
        Experience shows also that, often, processes used to involve civil society in discussions over local
        development generate high expectations, without rapid and concrete results, which puts at risk the



                                                   - 18-

          sustainability o f such participatory mechanisms. To increase the sustainability and credibility o f
         the participatory processes to be usedunder the project, all road improvement activities under the
         project will have to be defined through such processes, within the framework o f discussions for the
         preparation o f local development agendas.

    0    Proiect scope: OED reviewed 66 Bank-funded operations dealing with rural roads. Half o f these
         operations focused exclusively on rural roads, while the other operations included also other
         components under Roads, Transport, Rural Infrastructure, Irrigation and Agriculture and Rural
         Development Projects. The outcome o f all operations reviewed has been mixed, especially for
         agriculture or integrated development projects. A such, the OED review favors sector projects
         designed within a holistic strategy for rural development. This is especially true for a project inthe
         transport sector, as transport is an intermediary good. The project fully integrates this lesson.

    0    Institutions for broad-based rural development: the success o f rural development initiatives,
         particularly those targeted at the rural poor, depends upon the existence o f well-functioning
         institutions, able to collaborate across regional, functional and governmental boundaries, and
         responsive to the populations they are meant to serve. The project and the TWW will foster the
         strengthening o f existing institutions, creation o f fora for cross-sectorial collaboration, andbuilding
         o f social capital.

4. Indications of borrowercommitment and ownership:
The development objective o f the project is an integral part o f the Government's development strategy. The
project is considered priority by the highest levels o f the Government, which considers essential the
participation o f the Bank to the implementation o f its development strategy. The Government is fully
committed to use the instruments proposed under the project to achieve the project's development objective
(participatory mechanisms, spatial approach to local development and poverty reduction, dialogue on
increasing efficiency of public programs, decentralization), if only because most o f these instruments are
already used in pilot projects. The borrower has also demonstrated strong commitment to implement
projects prepared with the Bank, as evidence by the good performance o f the borrower under the
now-closed Second State Highway Management Project and the ongoing NRF'P.                    The borrower has: (i)
made substantial contributions to the design and definition o f activities to be undertaken under the project
to ensure that the project reaches the desired objectives, contributions illustrated, inter alia, by the
preparation o f a complete project proposal, detailing each project component and implementation
mechanisms; and (ii)offered all support to ensure that the preparation of the project could progress
efficiently.

At the local level, communities and municllpios visited so far have embraced the principles underlyingthe
project, and have shown keen interest in participating to the consultationhowledge sharindfeedback
mechanisms. Forty-five municllpios (out o f 67) have already such mechanisms in place. Inaddition, 20
out of 23 municllpios inthe Sudeste region have already preparedtheir municipal development agendas.

5. Value addedof Banksupportinthis project:
The Bankwill help:

    0    through the development o f regional and municipal planning capacity, and inclusion o f local
         communities in the planning, implementation and monitoring process, developing synergy among
         the different rural development programs to maximize benefits to the poorest;




                                                      - 19-

          involving the poorest indecisions affectingtheir communities;

          establishing frameworks for the preparation and implementation o f regional and municipal
          development agendas;

          bringing international experience and best practices in highway and rural roads management,
          including administrative decentralization, maintenance by contract with the private sector,
          sustainability o f rural infrastructure sector reforms, and road-related environmental and social
          safeguard policies and procedures; and

          promoting the conservation o f the state's natural resources and fragile ecosystems, by continuing to
          provide support to the structuring and implementation o f the state's land use management policy,
          andthe consolidation o fthe state's environmental protectionsystem.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit           NPV=US$14 million; ERR= 18.5 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

A comprehensive cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the main investment component which consists
of improving the project regions' main municipal road networks (totaling over 6,000 km) to all weather
condition (about 50% o f total project cost). The criteria and methodology for the economic analyses of the
state feeder road improvement subprojects (about 15% o f total project costs), which will complement the
municipal network subprojects and will be identified only duringproject implementation, have been clearly
defined during project preparation. Inparticular, no such subproject will be financed underthe loan unless
the criteria mentionedon pages 45 and 47 are satisfied andthe Bank is satisfied that its economic internal
rate o f return, estimated on the basis o f the agreed methodology, is at least 12%. The economic and social
benefits o f the remaining project components for participatory planning and management o f regional and
municipal development, and for land use management and biodiversity conservation, are not easily
quantifiable; they have essentially been identified qualitatively.

Municipal Road Network Component. In general, improvements on municipal road networks do not
generate substantial cost savings for road users since existing traffic is very low. The main economic
benefits o f such improvements, particularly when they are part o f a well-defined municipal development
agenda, are increases in agricultural and livestock production and productivity. Inareas with potential for
eco-tourism, economic benefits could also include increases intourism andartifact activities.

The methodology for the cost-benefit analysis o f this component was based on the "producer surplus"
approach. In summary, it consists o f comparing the improvement and maintenance costs o f the road
network sub-project with the economic benefits derived from increases in net agricultural and livestock
production, net o f local consumption and production costs. This methodology entails the definition o f
certain assumptions about future increases in agricultural and livestock production and productivity as a
consequenceo f the road improvements. Conservative assumptions were made with help from the available
municipal development agendas (see following section).           The methodology and assumptions will be
gradually improved on the basis o f the experience derived from the proposed permanent impact evaluation
system (Annex 11, Monitoring and Evaluation System).



                                                      - 20 -

International and Brazil experience shows that rural road improvements generally have substantial social
impacts shortly after completion, even intimes o f economic disruptions (see OED Precis No. 160, Feeder
Roads in Brazil). With improved access to schools, attendance and ultimately the quality of education
improves. With improved access to hospitals and clinics, and easier access o f health officers to rural
communities, the quality of heath services also substantially improves. Easier transport also means better
access to n o n - f m job opportunities, particularly for women and for landless rural workers. All these
effects contribute to increasing the productivity and income o f the rural population, with an important
impact on reducing poverty and improving well-being. But these social benefits are not easily quantifiable
ex-ante since they depend on numerous socioeconomic, cultural and environmental variables.                  The
proposed monitoring and evaluation system will help develop ex-post assessments of such effects which
could then provide a reasonablebasis for future ex-ante assessments.

The presentvalue o f the flow o fnet economic benefits (NPV) generatedby this component over the next 10
years is estimated at about R$ 42.1 million for a 12% discount rate, on the basis o f the conservative
estimates and assumptions (e.g. excluding, inter alia, any social benefits in terms o f access to services)
described inthe following sections. Its economic internalrate o f return is estimated at about 18.5 %.

State Roads Component. In general, improvements on state roads which already have an established
traffic o f at least 150 vehicles per day will generate substantial benefits in the form o f reductions o f road
user costs ("consumer surplus"). Such projects are subject to an ex-ante cost-benefit analysis to compare
the costs o f the proposed and altemative road rehabilitation and/or improvement works with the
corresponding benefits to be derived from savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time, and in road
maintenance costs. The cost-benefit analyses are carried out usingthe RoadEconomic Development (RED)
model, which was developed by the World Bank on the basis o f various elements o f the Highway Design
andMaintenance (HDM)model.

Since the state road sections to be improved will only be identified during project implementation, on the
basis o f the proposed decentralized andparticipative regional planningprocess, the above methodologywas
only applied on test cases for training purpose during project preparation. Prior to undertaking such state
road subproject, the Borrower is obligated under the loan documents to prepare and present to the Bank a
subproject application, including a cost-benefit analysis following the above agreed methodology. The
Bank will only approve subprojects that meet the criteria specified on page 47 and which have an estimated
economic internal rate o f return o f at least 12%, based on a satisfactory cost-benefit analysis using the
REDmodel.

Participatory Planning and Management of Regional and Municipal Development. This component
includes two main subcomponents for: (i)strengthening the planning and management o f public
expenditures through, inter-alia, effective participation o f civil society in preparing and monitoring
regional and municipal sustainable development plans (see section 4 hereafter); and (ii)      strengthening the
capacity o f state and municipal administrations to effectively deliver local public services. By improving
the relevancy, targeting, inter-governmental and inter-sectoral coordination o f public expenditures,
including public   - private partnerships, the first subcomponent could substantially increase the efficiency
and effectiveness ofpublic expenditures, andhave direct impacts on the competitiveness and growth o f the
state's economy.      Similarly, by improving the capacity o f municipal administrations to deliver local
infrastructure services, the well-being o f rural communities is expected to improve, and the incidence of
poverty to be reduced, through increased access to better social and economic infrastructure services,
resultinginto increasedproductivity andincomes.




                                                      -21 -

Environmental Management Componeni. The environmental management component also includes two
main subcomponents for: (i)land use management; and (ii)        biodiversity conservation. By improving the
effectiveness o f land use management through zonings, economic and regulatory instruments, and licensing
o f rural properties, the private sector, including farmers and cattle ranchers, will make better use o f natural
resources, increasing the efficiency and the sustainability of these activities statewide. The economic
benefits derived from the effective implementation o f such policies and programs can be huge, but they are
not easily quantifiable ex-ante. Similarly, conservation o f fragile eco-systems andbiodiversity through the
implantation o f the proposed new conservation units and ecological comdors will improve the capacity o f
the environment to maintain and renew the state's natural resources, including surface and subterranean
water, needed by economic activities, and provide incentives for new, eco-tourism activities. Again, these
effects cannot be easily assessed, but they are intuitively very significant. Efforts will be made under the
Environmental Management Component, to assess such effects duringproject implementation.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The project is expected to have positive financial impact at the state andmunicipal level through

      i.gradualincreaseofeconomicactivityintheregionstargetedbytheproject,whichwouldresult,in
         the mediumto long term, to increase intax revenues;

     ii.increased efficiency of public expenditures, including of: (a) road expenditures, through
          strengthening o f planning capacity (on the basis o f socio-economic criteria), and introduction of
         output-based contracts for maintenancehehabilitation, to eventually replace the more costly force
         account operations; and (b) programs targeting rural development and poverty reduction, through
         the preparation and implementation o f regional and municipal development agendas, and
          strengthening o fmunicipal budget and financial management control systems, which is expected to
         increase municipalities' capacity to attract funding from existing state and federal programs, andto
         lead to a more efficient use o f available resources, through the provision o f feedback from the
         programs' beneficiaries and strengtheningof the state's public programs monitoring andevaluation;


     iii.theimplementationoftheproject'senvironmental managementcomponent,whichwillavoidthe
         much higher costs o f the environmental rehabilitation programs which would otherwise be
         necessaryinthe future; and

     iv. gradual decentralization of provision o f local services, through strengthening o f inter-municipal
         and municipal managementcapacity.

Fiscal Impact:
Looking at the financial impact o f the proposed loan, it appears that the overall impact will be minimum,
even with respect to the state's debt service to current revenues ratio, as: (i) disbursements are
                                                                                    planned
expected at a level o f about 2.3% p.a. over 5 years o f the remaining debt level limit imposed by the LRF;
(ii) serviceoverthe2003-2005periodwillnotincreasethedebtservicetocurrentrevenuesratioabove
     debt
10% (see Annexes 5 and 12); (iii)     the debt service will be about 1.3% o f averaged projected net current
revenues, once the loan is fully disbursed; and (iv) the proposed loan's requirements interms o f counterpart
financing will also be small, at about 1.4% p.a. on average over 5 years o f averaged projected net current
revenues.




                                                      - 22 -

3. Technical:
The project would include optimization o f road rehabilitationand maintenance policies and standards, and
introduction o f output-based contracts on a pilot basis.

4. Institutional:
The organizational structure o f the institutions in charge o f rural development is operational, and the
framework for decentralization is being set up. The project will support the establishment and
strengthening of pilot regional development councils (CONDERs, initially in the regions targeted by the
project) and municipal development fora (MDFs) in municipalities located in the regions targeted by the
project (when feasible, municipal development fora will be built upon existing local participatory
decision-making structures, such as the local fora established under federal projects fostering local
development, such as the rural development councils o f the Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da
Agricultura Familial PRONAF).
                       -

The creation o f regional development councils will be fostered by SEPLAN.            The councils will be
responsible for: (i)  creating a forum to discuss regional development priorities with representatives o f the
municipal development fora within the region, of the state government and o f the private sector; (ii)
preparing regional development strategies, identifyingthe main development priorities for the region, and
concrete actions to achieve the objectives o f the development strategy (taking into account the
recommendations o f the state and regional ecologico-economic0 zonings); and (iii)  definingmechanisms for
the implementation o f the strategy, by actively seeking support o f relevant public programs, establishing
partnerships with public andor private entities, and mobilizing the region for execution o f specific
activities.

Municipal development fora are created through cooperation agreements between the state and
municipalities.    To date, municipal development fora or equivalent local participatory decision-making
structures have been established in 45 o f the 67 municipalities targeted by the project. The task of these
fora will be to: (i) municipal development agenda with the support o f specialized consulting
                       prepare
services and inputs from SEPLAN on the municipality's development potential, on the means necessaryto
achieve that potential, and on the requirements for sustainable land and natural resources use; (ii)  define
mechanisms for the implementation o f the agenda's first priorities, by actively seeking the inclusion o f the
municipality within existing local development programs, establishing partnerships with public/private
entities, and mobilizing the municipality for execution o f specific activities; (iii)participate to the
implementation or supervision of such activities; and (iv) provide support for the undertaking of
household-level surveys, whose data will be fed into the project's monitoringand evaluation system.

To support the buildingup o fplanninghmplementation capacity at municipal and regional levels, SEPLAN
will establish technical regional units (Unidades TCcnicas Regionais, UTRs) in each o f the four regions
targeted by the project. The units in the Bico de Pupuguio and Sudeste regons will be established by
mid-2004, and the two other units, by beginning o f 2005. More specifically, these units will: (i)foster
exchange o f information and feedback between the state andmunicipalities; (ii)   provide technical advise to
and be the executive secretariats for the regional development councils; (iii) technical support to
                                                                                 provide
municipalities instrengthening their planning, budgeting and management capacity, including support, with
participation o f the DERTINS, to the creatiodoperation o f inter-municipal consortia for provision o f local
infrastructure services (withan initial focus on maintenance o f municipalroadnetworks); and(iv) organize
professional training for local communities.

The project will also support the strengthening o fthe state's capacity to plan, manage and monitor/evaluate
public programs, through preparation and implementation o f an institutional development plan for


                                                    -23-

SEPLAN, strengthening o f SEPLAN's Secretariat Research and Information Department (DPI), and
provide assistance to SEPLAN's Ecologico-Economic Zoning Direction (DZE), to allow for the
consolidation of the state's environmental managementcapacity.

Inthe roadsector, the project will support the reorganization andstrengthening ofmanagement systems of
the state road department (DERTINS).          DERTINS would need to gradually shift its objective from
construction to management o f the road infrastructure, and its tasks from implementation and supervision
to planning and monitoring, as: (i)   managing isolated road maintenance and rehabilitation contracts will
give way to managing long-term output-based contract, which would require strengthened highway
planning capacity; and (ii)  instead o f actually carrying road maintenance, DERTINS will be increasingly
expected to provide advise and knowledge to municipalities as to how to implement and supervise rural
roadmaintenance and rehabilitationactivities.


4.1 Executing agencies:
All three executing agencies have adequate experience and capacity to implement their respective project
components, including experience indealing with the Bank, as all entities (withthe exception o f DPL) have
staff who were already involved in the implementation o f the now closed Second State Highway
Management Project (Loan 3714-BR), whose implementation has been rated highly satisfactory by the
Bank and by the Government o fBrazil.


4.2 Project management:
A project coordinationunit (GerBncia Administrativa do Projeto, GAP) has beenestablished, to coordinate
and monitor all project activities, including procurement planning, scheduling, monitoring and reporting,
disbursements and internal controls, maintenance o f project accounts and preparation o f project
management reports. GAP is headedby a project manager andstaffed with 5 (full time) professionals (one
engineer, one procurement specialist, one computer specialist, one administrative assistant and at least one
accountant), most o f whom were already involved in the implementation o f the Second State Highway
Management Project. The GAP will have the support o f the staff o f DAEEEINF, SEPLAN (for the
environmental and regional planning components), DERTINS (for the road components), and CPL (for
procurement, see section below). SEINF will, as necessary, hire consultants in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, to assist the GAP in carrying out its activities, including preparing bidding documents and
monitoring project implementation. An operational manual has been prepared, and includes guidelines,
standarddocuments, technical specifications andstandard TORSfor: (i)     selection, design andsupervision o f
activities to be carried out under the project; (ii)
                                                   for preparationo f environmental assessment, resettlement
plans and indigenous people development plans (as necessary); and (iii) carrying out procurement and
                                                                           for
financial management procedures inaccordance with Bank requirements. The GAP has also established a
computerized project managementsystem.


4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment has been carried out, and procurement risk has been assessed as average. All
procurement activities will be coordinated by GAP, and carried out by the state permanent procurement
commission (CPL) located in SEINF. The CPL has extensive knowledge o f public procurement rules and
processesinBrazil. "Refreshment" training has been offered (and will continue to be offered duringproject
implementation) to its staff, the staff o f GAP and o f the executingagencies. Procurement arrangements are
presentedinAnnex 6.




                                                     - 24 -

4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
A financial managementassessmenthas beencarried out andfinancial managementrisk hasbeenidentified
as moderate. Inparticular, the computerized accounting system is now operational (set up on the basis o f
the system used under the Second State Highway Management Project), and the staff of GAP and of the
Secretary o f Finance (SEFAZ, which will execute all payments under the project) have sound knowledge of
Bank's procedures/requirements with respect to disbursements on the basis of SOEs and auditing.            In
addition, most items o f the action plan agreed upon at the time the financial management assessment has
been carried out, have now been undertaken, and ensure that satisfactory arrangements to satisfy the Bank's
minimumfinancial management requirements are in place. "Refreshment training'' will be offered to the
staff o f the GAP and o f the Secretary o f Finance during project implementation. Financial management
arrangements and the action plan are presentedinAnnex 6.


5. Environmental:                          EnvironmentalCategory: A (FullAssessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The environmental objective o f the project is to continue supporting government's efforts inpromoting the
efficient use and conservation o f the state's natural resources and to protect biodiversity and fragile
ecosystems. Specific sub-objectives include:

         consolidating the state's capacity in terms of environmental management and monitoring,
         through (a) the undertaking o f detailed regional ecologico-economic zonings, in all regions o f the
         state, including the most fragile and threatened areas o f the JalapGo region, areas already legally
         protected (see part A, section 2.5); (b) the strengthening of DZE's ana1yticaVmonitoring capacity;
         (c) the creation o f 6 protected areas; (d) collection o f data on the state's main surface and
         subterraneanwater resources, and strengthening o f the state's climatic andhydrological monitoring
         system; and (e) support the regulation andpromotiono f sustainable landuse, through definition of
         adequate incentives, economic and regulatory instruments for implementation o f land management
         policies, definition and implementation o f licensing procedures for rural properties, and
         improvement o f technological support to small producers. The project will also help SEPLAN to
         reassessthe geographical targeting o fthe state expenditure programs inrelationto the zoning;

         ensuring that the preparation of municipal and regional development plans include adequate
         provisions to protect sensitive areas and manage natural resources in a sustainable fashion:
         awareness o f municipalities and local communities to environmental protection and sustainable
         natural resources management will be raised through existing activities in this area, including
         activities funded under various Government programs and the NRPP. In addition, development
         agendas will be developed in close collaboration with environmental advisors from SEPLAN,
         which will, inter alia, expose to and discuss with municipal foras and regional councils general
         principles o f environmental protection and sustainable natural resources management, the state's
         environmental policies and objectives, and the recommendations o f the detailed regional ZEEs, as
         they become available; and

         ensuring that physical activities funded under the project meet the requirements of the Bank
         safeguard policies: environmental issues are expected to be relatively minor, as physical activities '

         under the project will basically concern structural improvement (and possibly paving) o f existing
         road sections on the state network, and reconstruction o f (less than 30m. long) bridges and
         (re)-construction o f culverts on municipal networks.      Improvement activities will have mainly


                                                    - 25 -

         short-term, construction-related negative impacts (noise, dust and the like).  Long-term negative
         indirect impacts will be handled through appropriate identification and mitigation processes. In
         addition, in the Jalapiio region, no road improvement activities could take place in the areas o f
         integral protection, and no road improvement activities are foreseen under the project within the
         area o f restricteduse (see section B, paragraph 2.5).


5.2 What are the main features o fthe EMP and are they adequate?
EMPs will be required for works for state road subprojects. Under the now completed Second State
Highway Management Project, the State has put in place an adequate framework to ensure the mitigation
o f adverse impacts on the environment that could result from roadimprovement activities. Such framework
includes: (i)a state-wide economic-ecological zoning, which aims at promoting efficient use and
conservation o f the state's natural resources and protecting biodiversity and fragile ecosystems, and
identifies, inter alia, environmentally-sensitive areas; (ii)an environmental manual and related
environmental norms for road designs and works (including recuperation o fpassivo ambiental)satisfactory
to the Bank, the Manual Operacional da Gestiio Ambiental do Setor Rodovihrio; (iii)        guidelines for the
implementation o f the recommendations of the environmental management plans, including the Plano de
Aqiio Ambiental, (iv) specific procedures for initial screening, review, supervision and monitoring o f road
works by NATURATINS; (iv) strengthening o f NATURATINS' capacity; (v) an environmental unit to
cover seators covered by SEINF (roads, power, public civil works and airports), adequately staffed and
trained; (vi) necessary clauses related to the respect o f environmental requirements introduced in standard
contract documents; and (vii) capacity to establish protected areas, with, as o f today, 8% o f the state's
surface reserved for restricted use, 5% under integral protection, and 7% for protection o f indigenous
population, so that about 20% o f the state's superficie is composed o f protected areas. In addition, 11
potential protected areas have been identified, and the required level o f protection and surface to be
protected have started to be identified.

Road improvement activities will be designedimplemented and related PCAs or EIAsEMPs prepared
within the above framework. The preparation of PCAs or EIAsEMPs will be contracted to specialized
consultants, through Terms o f Reference prepared in collaboration between SEINF and NATURATINS.
The work o f these consultants will be supervised by SEW staff (from the DERTINS and SEINF's
Environmental Unit). Upon acceptation by SEINF, PCAs or EIAs/EMPs will be reviewed by
NATURATINS, on the basis o f which the environmental license will be given. For all state road
improvement subprojects, SEINF will prepare environmental assessments and management plans targeted
to the specific issues identified at the screening stage (and when necessary, resettlement plans and
indigenous people development plans). The Bank would approve financing o f the works on the basis o f the
final subproject application, which will include a summary o f the environmental assessment and
management plan reviewed and approved by NATURATINS. The implementation o f the environmental
management plans will be supervised by SEW'SEnvironmental Unit, NATURATINS and the Bank in
accordancewith the procedures described above andwith the Bank's relevant policies.

Potential negative direct impacts from the implementation o f improvement activities on the municipal
networks will be mitigated through the preparation o f standard designs, evaluation o f the potential
environmental impacts o f the improvement activities during the preparation o f the municipal network
project, review o f proposed improvement activities by NATURATINS, application o f procedures from the
Manual Operacional da Gestiio Ambiental do Setor Rodovihrio, supervision o f implementation by
supervision consultants who will undertake supervision o f technical, financial, and environmental aspects,
and on a sample basis, by SEINF's Environmental Unit and NATURATINS. N o significant indirect
impact is expectedto result from the implementationo f this component, as it concerns the reconstruction o f


                                                     - 26 -

bridges and (re)-construction o f culverts. The detailed steps to be followed during the preparation of the
state and municipal network subprojects are presented inAnnex 2.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o freceipt o f final draft: 10/10/2002

The Environmental Assessment, the executive summary, a resettlement framework and an indigenous
people development framework were completed and made available for public consultation in October,
2002. The resettlement framework and indigenous people development framework have been approved by
the Government as to be applied to any road works and creation o f environmental units to be implemented
underthe project.

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
As stakeholders' participation mechanisms are being set up, stakeholders will participate in the
identification o f road improvement activities, both on the municipal and state networks. In selecting road
improvement activities, stakeholderswill take into account, inter alia, prevailing laws and regulations on
environmental protection and the findings o f the state and regional zonings, as they become available. In
this exercise, stakeholders will be advised by representatives o f SEPLAN and SEINF. Inthe case o f road
improvement activities on the state network, stakeholders' participation will be complemented by the
organization, by SEINF with the assistance o f environmental and social communications consultants, o f
public hearings in the main municipalities along the state road section to be improved. Participants' views
on preliminary designs and on expected environmental and social impacts will be sought as inputs to the
preparation o fthe final designs and of environmental and social assessments.


5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Ex-post evaluation surveys would be conducted, through DZE, by SEPLAN's Direction for Environment
and Water Ressources (DMA), in addition to NATURATINS' monitoring, to confirm the appropriateness
o f the EMPs' recommendations, and propose, ifnecessary, modifications to new EMPs.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, andspecify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project i s expected to have significant positive social development outcomes including: (i)
empowerment o f local population and buildingo f social capital, through set up o f participatory processes
to define local development plans and investments to be funded under the project, and to participate to the
implementation and monitoring o f such plans. The process o f def~ng         andmonitoring local development
plans will be used to organize and transmit feedback from local populations on design and efficiency o f
ongoing programs targeting rural areas; and (ii)      better inclusion in society and enhanced opportunities to
participate to economic activities, through increased accessibility to services and markets. The degree to
which the project will attain the planned outcomes will depend on the degree o f participation o f local
populations. Experience to date (under pilot activities in the Sudeste and parts o f the Bico de Papagaio)
shows that local populations are quite responsive.          In addition, stakeholders (including civil society
organizations) will be involved to ensure a highdegree o fparticipation (see below).



                                                       - 27 -

Social issues which could result from the project are expected to be small as it is not expected that the
project will require resettlement, given: (i) improvement activities on the main municipal networks, the
                                             for
facts that these activities are localized and consist o f reconstruction o f existing structures, within the area
already occupied by the road; and (ii)      for improvement activities on the state network, the facts that
activities will be confined within the existing road right o f ways, and that most right o f ways on the state
network are free of encroachments.         Nevertheless, in the event that resettlement occurs, a specific
resettlement plan will be prepared in accordance with the Bank-approved resettlement framework. Also,
campaigns to raise awareness to road safety o f people living in the vicinity o f roads to be improved, and
education o f road work crews in protecting themselves and others from AIDS, are already standard
requirements o froadwork contracts inTocantins.

The.indigenous population o f the state is small, less than 5,000 individuals (or 0.5% o f the population),
mainly from the Apinujks, Kruh6, andXerente indian groups. Nearly all o f them occupy areas demarcated
and regularized by FUNAI. Indigenous areas occupy about 7% o f the state, and include the Xerente
Indigenous Area (North of Palmas), the Apinujks Indigenous Area (in the Bico de Pupuguio), the
KrahGlundiu Indigenous Area in the Nordeste region, and the Xumbioa Indigenous Area inthe Nordeste
region. It is not expected that road sections to be improved under the project will be localized within or
close to indigenous areas. Indeed, landuse restrictions within andaround indigenous areas do not allow for
development o f economic potential on a sufficiently attractive scale. As such, there is a very small
probability that road sections within or around such areas be selected as part o f the main municipal
networks or as the essential link between a region and the main transport corridors.               However, an
Indigenous Peoples Development Framework (IPDF) was prepared and approved by the Bank during
project preparation, in case it is assessed, during project implementation, that a given sub-project might
impact indigenous communities.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating inthe project?
Local communities, municipalities, private sector, representatives o f syndicates and other stakeholders will
participate, through municipal development fora andregional development councils andwith the support o f
the state, to the elaboration and implementation o f development agendas. These agendas will then be
reviewed by SEPLAN to ensure consistency with the state's policies on, inter alia, development, financial
sustainability and environmental management. Through the elaboration o f these development agendas,
local communities and municipalities will also define the specific investments to be funded under the
project. Finally, as part o f the decentralization process to be supported by the project, local communities
and municipalities would be gradually more involved in the management o f local services' provision, such
as maintenanceo f the municipal roadnetwork.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwithNGOs or other civil society
organizations'?
The involvement of civil society organizations is key to ensure that development agendas are prepared,
implemented and their implementation monitored with maximum participation o f local population and
especially of the poorest. As such, civil society organizations will be invitedto participate to municipal
development foras and regional development councils.           In particular, civil society organizations are
expected to help empowering local populations by: (i)continuing raising awareness to existing
opportunities for economic and social mobility; (ii)  organizing feedback o f local population on topics such
as: the effectiveness of the various programs targeting development and poverty reduction in rural areas,
and how to increase impact of such programs through modified design and implementation mechanisms;


                                                     - 28 -

and (iii) fostering participation o f local population to mobilization o f assistance and financing to better
respondto their needs.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As mentionedearlier, there are ongoing initiatives (especially inthe SudesteandBico dePapagaioregions)
aiming at promotingpublic-private partnerships and effective community participation in elaborating local
and regional agendas for sustainable, integrated development. The project will help the state Government
to strengthen this institutional base, by: (i)
                                             providing support to enhance, implement and evaluate ongoing
initiatives, before replicating them in other regions; (ii)  providing technical assistance and training to
municipal and regional councils to build up their capacity; and (iii)using established community
participationmechanisms to identifyroad improvement activities to be fundedunder the project.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The monitoring and evaluation o f social development outcomes will be integrated into the overall
monitoring andevaluation fkamework for the project (see section C.4 and Annex 11).


7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Government, through SEPLAN and SEINF, will be committed under the project's legal documents, to
carry out effective screening o f physical activities for potential impacts, to review EIAs, supervise
implementation o f EMPs, and monitor subproject impacts on the environment, natural habitats, cultural
property, indigenous peoples and families affected by involuntary resettlement. These activities will be
undertaken, when necessary, incollaboration with other relevant institutions (such as FUNAI, inthe case o f
potential issues related to Indigenous People). DERTINS will also be committed, for road improvement
activities on the state road network, to carry out public consultations and prepare EIAs, EMPs,
resettlement plans and Indigenous People Development Plans as necessary in accordance with agreed
procedures, criteria and methodologies specified in the relevant documents previously mentioned. The
project will provide technical assistance and training services to develop the necessary institutional
capacities in SEPLAN and SEINF as defined inthe previous paragraphs. The Bank will not approve state
road improvement subprojects for financing under the loan unless subproject financing applications include
evidence that the required surveys, assessments and plans have been completed and are satisfactory. The
Bankwill also supervisethe implementationofthe agreedplans or measures.


                                                    - 29 -

With respect to the Natural Habitat Policy, under the recently completed State Highway Management
Project, a state-wide agro-ecological zoning was prepared. The zoning identifies, inter alia, areas which
should be protected. In addition, taking into account the experience acquired and lessons learned in
preparing the detailed zoning o f the Bico do Papagaio under the NRPP, the project will help SEPLAN to
prepare detailed zonings o f all state's regions, including the JuZapZo region. These more detailed regional
zonings will provide effective instruments for the proposed decentralized and participatory planning
processes, for environmental impact assessments, licensing and land use and impact monitoring activities.
Second, the project will help prepare.managementplans for, and establish the six most urgent o f the eleven
identified conservation units (UC), in coordination with the GEF-funded Programa Nacional de
Biodiversidade. With this subcomponent, the project will contribute to increase the total aggregated
protected areas to over 20% o f the state's superficie.

As such, it is expectedthat the project will have a significant positive impact on natural habitats, and will
allow to significantly leverage the state's capacity inmitigating potentialnegative long-term impacts on the
environment resultingfrom the implementation o f activities inducing economic growth, including the state
and municipalroad improvement components underthe project.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will seek sustainability through

        development o f a spatial and participatory approach to rural development and poverty reduction at
        policy, planningand implementation levels;

        establishment and strengthening of local capacity to define and seek ways to execute municipal and
        regional development agendas, andmonitor their implementation;

        increased social capital, through creatiodoperation o f municipal development foras and regional
        development councils, and demonstration that such foradcouncils can actually take decisions
        which are followed by results, through the implementation o f road improvement activities to be
        financed under the project;

        better inclusion o f rural population in society and economy, through increased awareness to rural
        economy potential, andto related support available to realize the potential;

        development of feedback mechanisms on efficiency/targeting o f activities aiming at local
        development and reductiono f ruralpoverty;

        development o f inter-municipal consortia, initially for maintenance o fmunicipal roadnetworks;

        consolidation o f the state's environmental management capacity; and

        more effective and sustainable operation andmaintenance o f the state highway and municipal road
        networks.




                                                     -30-

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                   Risk                                                         Risk Mitigation Measure
FromOutputsto Objective
Government's commitment to                               M          Continuous dialogue with andsupport to
decentralizedrural development is                                   Government to ensureprogress instrengthening
discontinued                                                        local capacities and empowerment ofrural
                                                                    populations.
Local communities and municipalitiesdo                   S          Project to complement ongoing activities in
not participate inplanning,                                         preparation o f local development plans, and
implementation andmonitoring o f local                              partially fundimplementatiodmonitoringo f
development                                                         suchplans, which is expected to stimulate
                                                                    interest inparticipating to the process. In
                                                                    addition, approval o f improvements activities on
                                                                    municipalnetworks linkedto setting up o f
                                                                    municipal foras and preparation o fmunicipal
                                                                    development agendas
Government does not take and implements                  M          Government has a goodtrack recordin
IegaVregulatorymeasuresrequiredto                                   establishing APAs andparks. Inaddition,
:nsure sustainable use o f natural                                  Government's PPA includes specific programs
resources and adequate environmental                                under implementationto foster sustainable
protection                                                          natural resourcesmanagement and
                                                                    environmental protection, including continued
                                                                    development andimplementation o f the ZEE,
                                                                    development o fprotected areas and
                                                                    environmental management. The
                                                                    implementationof some o f the mainprograms in
                                                                    this area will be supported with resources from
                                                                    the project.
Annual state roadprograms not                            M          State Government representatives and project
compatible with the state'sfiscal situation:                        team tojointly review the proposed annual state
needs for road maintenance, andneeds in                             road investment andmaintenance programs, and
other sectors                                                       State Government to take into account the
                                                                    proposedroadprograms inpreparingthe State
                                                                    budgetfor the consecutive year.
From Componentsto Outputs
DecliningGovernment's commitment to                      S          To minimizepoliticalcost, landuse
define and implement landuse                                        managementpolicy to be defined through a
managementpolicy                                                    participatory process involving the main
                                                                    stakeholders, on the basis o f a menuo f options
                                                                    identified by studies presenting best practices
                                                                    and analyzingpros and cons o f various existing
                                                                    landuse management policies.
Lack o f coordinatiodcollaboration                       M          Project designedto complement andenhance
between the various actors to enhance                               existingrural development activities. Local
impact on poverty reduction o f rural                               development planningprocesseswith
development activities                                              participation o f potential beneficiaries expected
                                                                    to foster coordinatiodcollaboration among the


                                                       -31 -

                                                                  various actors to enhanceimpact o f activities on
                                                                  poverty reduction. SEPLANto strengthen its
                                                                  role as overall coordinator o f ruraldevelopment
                                                                  activities inthe State, through creation o f
                                                                  regionalunits, and involvement in
                                                                  creationloperation o f municipal development
                                                                  councils andregional development councils.
Non-availability o f counterpart fundingin            M           Duringpreparation, annual needsfor
timely fashion                                                    counterpart funding were discussedwith the
                                                                  Government. Duringimplementation, foreseen
                                                                  level o f counterpart fundingto be discussed
                                                                  annually with Government as part of the State
                                                                  budget preparation exercise, to ensure that
                                                                  proposed leveli s compatible with budgetary
                                                                  capacity.
Overall Risk Rating                                   S



3. PossibleControversialAspects:
The implementationo f the project i s not expected to result into controversies, since: (i) project has been
                                                                                           the
prepared insupport o f the Government's development strategy, and the policy objectives o f the project have
been agreed; (ii) public consultations undertaken so far demonstrate a strong interest o f major stakeholders
for this project; (iii)
                      the participatorymechanisms foreseen by the project shouldensure broadendorsement
o f the physical investments and institutional reforms to be undertaken; and (iv) the relations established
during project preparation with the main stakeholders will be maintained and reinforced during project
implementation, to provide a forum through which controversies could be avoided, or at least detected as
early as possible and remedied ina consensual fashion.


G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
None.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Proiect CoordinationandMonitoring;:

    0    the Borrower shall coordinate, supervise, monitor and evaluate the project activities under
         arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, including maintaining, for such purposes, the GAP and the
         GOP until project completion with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with
         staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications and experience, such units to be
         headedat all times by coordinators with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;

    0    the Borrower shall: (a) establish UT& in the regions of: (i) do Pupuguio and Sudeste, not
                                                                         Bico
         later than six months after the Effective Date; and (ii)  Nordeste and JuZupZo, not later than one
         year after the establishment o f the UT& in (i) above; and (b) assign at least a planning specialist
         and an environmental specialist for each such UTR, and provide appropriate facilities, equipment


                                                    - 32 -

        and budgetsfor each such UTRs operations and functioning;

    e   the Borrower shall carry out baseline and follow-up surveys for the evaluation o f the
        socio-economic impacts o f the Project. For that purpose, the Borrower shall contract the services
        of specialists in accordance with the relevant terms of reference and implementation schedule set
        forth inthe PIP, including, inter alia, the contracting o f such services for the baseline survey inthe
        Borrower's Sudesteregionnot later than four months after the Effective Date; and

    e   no latter than 30 months after the Effective Date, the Borrower will review with the Bank (the
        mid-term review) the overall progress in the execution o f the project and take any agreed remedial
        action.


Preparation and review o f Conservation Unit suburoiects: prior to initiating the carrying out o f any works
under a conservation unit subproject, the Borrower will provide to the Bank for review and approval: (a)
the proposed management plan for the relevant environmental protected area; and (b) if applicable, (i)       an
indigenous peoples development planprepared ina participatorymanner with the affected indigenous group
inaccordancewith the Indigenous Peoples Development Strategy, and/or (ii) resettlement action plan
                                                                                    a
prepared inaccordance with the Resettlement Framework.

Preparation and review o f municipal road suburoiects: prior to initiating any biddingprocedures under a
municipal road subproject, the Borrower will provide to the Bank for review and approval: (a) a copy o f
the relevant municipal development agenda; (b) the priority list o f road sections to be included in such
municipal road subproject; (c) an agreement between the Borrower and the relevant municipality detailing
the commitments o f each party to strengthen such municipality's participatory planning and management
capacity, as well as providing for the financing and carrying out by the Borrower o f such Municipal Road
Subproject, and the collaborationto be providedby such municipality inconnection thereto; (d) a datasheet
for the municipal road subproject in accordance to the technical standards and format set forth in the
Municipal Road Operational Manual; and (e) the relevant environmental licenses and, if applicable, an
indigenous people development plan satisfactory to the Bank.

Preparation and review o f state road subaroiects: the Borrower will provide to the Bank for review and
approval: (a) the rationale for selection o f the road segments to be included in the project on the basis o f
appropriate participatory mechanisms, socio-economic evaluation, information on the municipal road
subprojects related to the state road subproject, and results o f the screening for potential impacts on the
environment, on indigenous peoples, and on historic patrimony, as applicable; and (b) prior to initiating any
bidding procedures for works under a state road subproject, a summary o f the engineering designs and
economic analysis carried out in accordance with the criteria and methodology set forth in the PIP, any
requiredenvironmental impact assessment and/or indigenous people (comunidades indigenas) development
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, and/or any requiredresettlement actionplan prepared inaccordance with the
agreedresettlement framework.

Preparation and review o f state road programs and budgets: the Borrower will: (a) by not later than
September 30 o f each year during Project implementation, finish to the Bank, for review, the Borrower's
draft program for its road sub-sector (including the State Road Subprojects and Municipal Road
Subprojects) during the subsequent year, including an estimate o f the expenditures andsources o f funds for




                                                     - 33 -

               ;and(b) takeintoaccount, whenp n p wthebudgetaryproposalfortheprogramreferred
to in(a) above, any comment ofthe Bankthereon

H. Readinessfor Implementation
    1.a) The engineeringdesigndocuments forthe firstyear'sactivitiesarecomplete andreadyfor the start
         ofprojectimplementation.
0 1.b)Notapplicable.

Ix]2. The procurementdocumentsfor the firstyear'sactivities arecompleteandready forthe startof
       project implementation.
   3. The ProjectImplementation Planhasbeenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
   4. The followingitems arelackingandare discussedunderloanconditions (Section G):

None.

I. Compliancewith BankPolicies
    1. This project complieswith all applicable Bankpolicies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.

None.




                                                                            VinodThomas
Teamleader                                Sector Man;                       CountryManagermirector
                                                             '4




                                                  -34-
                                                                                                         . . .

                                 Annex 1: Project DesignSummary
           BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                 Key Performance               Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives               Indicators                                          CriticalAssumptions
jector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:               Sector1country reports:   from Goal to Bank Mission)
4lleviate rural poverty and   0  Increase in well-being        0 UNDPHuman               0 Absence o f severe
;upport growth                  and incomes as measured          Development Report        macro-economic shocks
                                by indices such as the                                     at national and regional
                                hdice de                       0 IBGEand SEPLAN            levels
                                Desenvolvimento                  studies
                                Humano Municipal,                                        0 Successful
                                indice de                      0 Bank CAS updates          implementation o fthe
                                Desenvolvimento Social,                                    Govemment's overall
                                and fndice de                  0 Project evaluation        growth andpoverty
                                InsuficiCncia da Renda                                     reduction strategy




JrojectDevelopment           Iutcome IImpact                  Voject reports:           from objective to Goal)
3bjective:                   ndicators:
zontribute to raising living  0 Increase information o f       0 UNDPHuman               0 Efficiency of safety net
;tandards and to reducing       social capital, as               Development Report for    for those "trapped" in
nequalities and regional        measuredby the                   Tocantins                 poverty
iisparities inTocantins'        Community Participation
,oorest regions, while          Index                          0 IBGEBEPLAN studies      0 Appropriateness o f
msuringsustainableuseo f                                                                   mechanisms
iatural resources and           Increase innumber of             Project evaluation        redistributing
xotection o ffragile            visits to health facilities                                development benefits
xosystems.                      and in school attendance
                                                                                         0 Govemment's rural
                              0 Increased share o f cash                                   development program is
                                crops intotal agricultural                                 well targeted and
                                production                                                 adequately funded

                              0 Decreasedprice (incl.                                    0 Activities within
                                transport cost component)                                  Government's rural
                                o f key commodities and                                    development program are
                                inputs                                                     well coordinated

                              0 Decrease intime needed
                                to get to municipal and
                                regional centers




                                                         - 35 -

                                  Key Performance
 Hierarchyof Objectives               Indicators         -                             Critical Assumptions
htput from each               3utput Indicators:                                     ;fromOutputs to Objective)
:omponent:
I.1 Participatory multisectora 0 Numberoffinalized           0Supervision Missions'      Continued Govemment's
)lanning mechanisms              municipal development        Aide-Memoires              commitment and support
lperational at municipal and     agendapreparedby                                        to decentralized rural
egional levels                   MDFs: 20 by end2003,         Quarterly progress         development
                                 40 by end2005, and 60        reports
                                 by end2007                                              Local administrations are
                                                              Municipal development      responsiveto
                                 Numberofpilot                agenda objectives and      Govemment's
                                 CONDERs established: 2       achievements               decentralization
                                 by end2005, and 4 by                                    objectives
                                 end2006
                                                                                         Local communities and
                                 Numbero fregional                                       municipalities
                                 development agenda                                      participating in
                                 finalized 1by end 2006                                  development planning
                                 and 4 by end2008
                                                                                         Municipalstaff andlocal
                                                                                         communities members
                                                                                        participating to
                                                                                         institutional and social
                                                                                         capital building efforts

 .2 Planning andpublic         0 Number o f UTRs
lrograms management              established:2 by end        0Supervision Missions'
apacity strengthened             2004and4byend2006            Aide-Memoires

                                 Numberof                    0Quarterly progress
                                 inter-municipal consortia    reports
                                 created: 1by end 2005,4
                                 by end 2008                  Annual municipal audit
                                                              Statementsissuedby the
                                 Increasein number o f        Tribunal das Contasdo
                                 municipalities presenting    Estado
                                 annual statements
                                conforming accounting
                                 standards andthe
                                 requirementso fthe Law
                                 on Fiscal Responsibility:
                                20% by end2005,30%
                                by end2008

                                 Stateplanning system
                                strengthenedby end 2008




                                                       - 36 -

!.Stateenvironmental        e Number ofregional             e Supervision Missions'       Govemment takes and
nanagementconsolidated        zonings ready: 3 by end         Aide-Memoires               implements
                              2005,6 by end2008                                           legal/regulatory measures
                                                              Quarterly progress          requiredto ensure
                            e Numberofprotected               reports                     sustainable use o f natural
                              areasto be establishedby                                    resourcesand adequate
                              end2008: 6                                                  environmental protection

                            e Landuse management
                              tools approved and in use
                              by end2008



1.1Condition ofmain           85% o f the critical points  End-of-project road         Adequate selection and
nunicipal networks improvec   on the main municipal        ondition survey report     xioritization o f roads to be
n targeted areas              roadnetworks eliminated      Traffic studies            mproved, especially through
                              by end2008                   Supervision Missions'      )articipatory planning and
                                                           iide-Memoires              nonitoring of local
i.2 Access oftargetedareas    Traffic on improved          Quarterly progress reports levelopment
o export corridors improved   connecting roads
                              increased 15% by end
                              2008


i.3 Managemento f highway   e 120kmofconnecting                                            State Govemment
ystem strengthened           roads improved by end                                        remains committed to
                              2008                                                        DERTINS's
                                                                                          strengthening
                            e DERTINS planning,
                             operations, and                                           e Adequate design of
                             monitoring capacity                                          output-basedcontract,
                              strengthenedby end2007                                      good understanding o f
                                                                                          contract principles by the
                              2 pilot output-based                                        contracting industry, and
                             maintenance contracts on                                     adequate contract
                              1,000kmof state and                                         managementcapacity
                              1,000 o fmunicipal
                             networks signed by end
                             2006




                                                     - 37 -

-                                Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy
  Hierarchy of 0bjectives            Indicators                                    -  Critical Assumptions    -
ProjectComponents/           nputs: (budget for each     'reject reports:           from Componentsto
Sub-components:             Zomponent)                                              kltputs)
                                                             Project Implementation
                                                             PIan

                                                             Studies' reports

                                                             Supervisionmissions'
                                                             Aide-Memoires

                                                             Quarterly progress
                                                             reports


1. Participatory Planning    US%6.1 million                                            State and municipal
and Managementof                                                                       Governments, CONDERs
RegionalandMunicipal                                                                   and MDFs
Development                                                                            representatives fully
                             JS$2.7 million                                            involved inproject
1.1 Strengthening                                                                      activities
mechanisms for participation
:o define andmonitor                                                                   Continued Government's
municipal and regional                                                                 commitment and support
ievelopment agendas          JS$ 1.7 million                                           to decentralized rural
                                                                                       development
1.2 Set up o f SEPLAN
regional units               JS$ 1.7 million

1.3 Strengthening of State
Planning System


2. Environmentaland Land US$ 10.1 million
Use Management

2.1 Strengthening o f land   JS$6.6 million                                            Government's
nanagement capacity                                                                    commitment to define
                                                                                       and implement land use
                                                                                       management policy

2.2 Consolidationo fthe      JS$3 million                                              Efficient
State's environmental
?rotection system                                                                      coordinationicollaboratio
                                                                                       nbetween various
                                                                                       environmental protection
                                                                                       activities inthe state

2.3 Regulation and promotion JS$O.5 million                                            SEPLAN management
,f sustainableland use                                                                 and staff fully involved in
                                                                                       project activities




                                                    - 38 -

                                                          a SEPLAN management
                                                            and staff fully involvedin
                                                            project activities



1. RuralTransport             JS%65.5 million
mprovement

1.1.a Strengtheningof state's JS$ 2 million               a Timely availability of
oad managementcapacity                                      counterpart fimding
                              JS$4.6 million
1.1.b Introduction of                                     e State, municipal and local
)utput-basedcontracts                                       forums andcommunities
                                                            representativesfully
                                                            involved inproject
                                                            activities


1.2.a Upgrade of main         JS$ 43 million              a DERTINS management
nunicipalnetworks                                           and staff fully involvedin
                              JS$ 15 million                project activities
1.2.b Upgradeofhigh-priority
$ate feeder roads
                              JS$ 0.6 million
5.3 Promotion of
:est-effectiverural transport

5.4 Supportto Project         JS$O.3 million
Zoordination Unit




                                                - 39 -

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
        BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLEREGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


The project comprises three components:

    (i) a Participatory Planning and Management of Regional and Municipal Development
       component, to (a) establish and/or strengthen mechanisms for local civil society participation to
       define and monitor municipal and regional development agendas; (b) set up regional units o f
        SEPLAN to assist in the strengthening o f planning and management capacity at the regional,
       inter-municipal and municipal levels; and (c) strengthen the state's capacity to undertake
       multisectoral state-level planning, to administer public programs, and monitor/evaluate the
       performance o f suchprograms.

    (ii)anEnvironmentalandLandUseManagementcomponent, to (a) strengthenthestate's land
       management capacity, through the undertaking o f detailed regional ecological-economic zonings,
       and strengthening of analytical/monitoring capacity; (b) consolidate the state's environmental
       protection system, through the creation of 6 protected areas, collection o f data on the state's main
       surface and subterraneanwater resources, andstrengthening o fthe state's climatic and hydrological
       monitoring system; and (c) support the regulation and promotion o f sustainable land use, through
       definition o f adequate incentives, economic and regulatory instruments for implementationo f land
       management policies, definition and implementation o f licensing procedures for rural properties,
       andimprovement oftechnological support to small producers.

   (iii)a RuralTransportImprovementcomponent, to (a) strengthenthe state's roadmanagement
       capacity, by ensuring the preparation, monitoring and evaluation o f efficient state road programs,
       and gradually increasing the state's road maintenance capacity, including introduction of
       performance-based maintenance contracts, decentralization o f maintenance activities through
       creation o f new districts and development o f maintenance capacity at the municipal or
       inter-municipal level; (b) define in a participatory fashion and improve, to all-weather condition,
       about 6,000 km o f priority road sections o f the main municipal road networks and improve about
       120 km o f high-priority state feeder roads linking the main municipal networks to the primary
       transport network; (c) promote cost-effective rural transport services, particularly school bus
       systems, and establish mechanisms to improve access o f the rural poor to such services; and (d)
       provide support to the project coordinationunit.

By Component:

ProjectComponent 1 US$S.lO million
                     -
ParticipatoryPlanningandManagementofRegionaland MunicipalDevelopment( YOofbaseline
projectcost)

   (a) establishmenthtrengthening of mechanisms for civil society participation in deJining and
       monitoring the implementation of regional and municipal development agendas: various
       mechanisms for civil society participation inpreparation and monitoring o f municipal development
       agenda are operational in the State, most o f which can be found in municipalities o f the Bico de
       Papagaio (following implementation o f community-level projects such as the Projeto Alvorada        -
       Comunidade Ativa) and o f the Southeast region, following the implementation o f a project
       prepared by the Government o f Tocantins, and implementedinpartnership with SEBRAE. These



                                                  -40-

    projects, supported by state andfederal government funding, are buildingand animating municipal
    development fora to prepare and implement development agendas through extensive motivation and
    training programs, following the sustainable integrated development methodology @LIS). At the
    regional level, the Government is committed to experiment with the creation o f Regional
    Development Councils (CONDERs) on a pilot basis inthe 4 regions targeted by the project. In
    addition to having the same functions than a municipal development forum at the regional level, the
    CONDERs will provide a privileged contact point between the state andmunicipal governments to
    discuss and resolve issues linkedto the development o f a specific region.

    The project will support the set-up and animation o f the pilot CONDERs and o f municipal
    development fora in municipalities within the 4 regions targeted by the project. The project will
    provide funding for: (i) hiring o f councils and fora's anchor persons, whose duties will include
                             the
    forum organization, as well as moderation and synthesis o f the foras' discussions; and (ii)    basic
    training to members o f development councils and fora, to familiarize them with development
    obstacles and potential o f the regions in which they are located, the processes related to the
    preparation, monitoring and evaluation o f local development plans, and negotiatiodmarketing
    techniques to be used for discussing the preparation o f municipal/regional development agendas
    and attracting public programs' funding to their communities.

    Several specialized institutions are available in Brazil to provide forum organizatiodmoderation
    and training services, which would take place or inperson or through video-conference, usingthe
    distance leaming facilities already installed in over 60% o f the state's municipalities, under a
    program managed by the University o f Tocantins. Municipal development agendas have been
    completed in 20 municipalities o f the Southeast region and are under preparation in 8
    municipalities inthe Bico de Papagaio region.

(b) set up of regional units of SEPLANto assist in the strengthening of planning and management
    capacity at the regional, inter-municipal and municipal levels: this sub-component will provide
    training, technical assistance and equipment to SEPLAN in establishing and operating regional
    units (Unidades TCcnicasRegionais, UTRs), which will:

     i.fosterexchangeofinformationandfeedbackbetweenthestateandmunicipalgovernments,
        especially through the provision o f technical inputs to the municipal development fora on: (a)
        the development obstacles and potentials o f the municipalities, (b) the various technical
        solutions to specific issues, and (c) the various public programs available to support elements
        o fthe municipal development agendas;

    ii.providetechnicaladvisetoandbetheexecutivesecretariatoftheCONDERs;

   iii.providetechnical support to municipalities instrengtheningtheir planning,budgetingand
        management capacity, through (a) preparation and implementation o f municipal institutional
        strengthening plans, (b) preparation and publication of guidelines and manuals on basic
        municipal management, compiling main laws, rules to be observed and best practices to guide
        municipalities in tackling common issues, and (c) support to the creatiodstrengthening o f
        municipal or inter-municipal technical units for delivery o f local infrastructure services, with
        an initial focus on municipal roadmaintenance; and




                                                - 4 1-

        iv. organize professional training for local communities, through establishment of a catalogue of
            available professional trainings to small producers and o f decentralized mechanisms to make
            these trainings available to a broader audience, using, for example, distance-leaming facilities.


Each UTR will be staffed with at least one representative o f the state's Secretariat o f Planning, two
technicians, a municipal infrastructure services engineer, and other specialists to be contracted on an as
neededbasis.

   (c) strengthen the state's capacity to undertake multisectoral state-level planning, to administer
        public programs, and monitor/evaluate the performance of such programs: this sub-component
        will finance training, technical assistance and equipment to the staff o f the state's Secretariat o f
        Planning to:

         i.prepareandimplementaninstitutionaldevelopmentplanforSEPLAN. Theplanwillinclude
            programs for training o f the Secretariat's staff, revision o f administrative procedures (in
            collaboration with the State's Secretariat o f Administration), modemization and expansion (to
            regions    and municipalities)     of   information    systems,    development   o f municipal
            socio/economic/environmental databases, andadaptation o f the state's planning system (to take
            into account needs andfeedback from regional and municipal development agendas); and

        ii.further developthe Secretariat'scapacity toplan, monitorandevaluatethe impacts ofthe
            state's development programs, through strengthening o f the Secretariat's Research and
            Information Department, in charge o f monitoring levels o f socioeconomic development and
            poverty in the State and support the canying out o f the monitoring and evaluation o f public
            programs aiming at fostering rural development (including the project), in a first phase, in the
            regions targeted by the project.

ProjectComponent2 US$10:10 million
                      -
Environmental and LandUse Management Component (% o fproject baseline cost)

   (a) strengthening of the state's land management capacity, through the undertaking of detailed
        regional ecologico-economic zonings, and strengthening of analytical/monitoring capacity. This
        sub-component will provide funding for technical assistance to undertake the elaboration o f the
        zonings in the 6 macro-regions o f the state, and o f one ago-climatic zoning in the areas with
        potential for intensive agricultural use.    The Secretariat o f Planning has acquired significant
        knowledge and experience with the preparation and implementation o f zonings, since the creation,
        eight years ago, o f the Secretariat's DZE, and the preparation, under the last Bank's highway
        project o f a ZEE at the state level. The sub-component will also provide technical assistance,
        training and equipment to the DZE, to strengthen the Direction's capacity to analyze and interpret
        the data necessary for an adequate comprehension, monitoring and evaluation o f impact on the
        environment o f land use in the state, through, inter alia, the set up andor expansion o f databases
        for environmental and socioeconomic variables to be monitored, and for organization o f flora,
        fauna, geological, meteorological, hydrological data which will be collected during the preparation
        o fthe zonings.


 9 (b) consolidating the state's environmental protection system, through the creation of 6 protected
        areas, collection o f data on the state's main surface and subterranean water resources, and
        strengthening o f licensing and monitoring capacity. This sub-component will provide funding for



                                                   -42-

       technical assistance, training and equipment to: (i) at the level o f the state, areas already
                                                             review,
       identified with ecosystems which could potentially require protection (including determination o f
       extension and proposal with respect to the level o f protection required), and identify additional
       areas with fragile ecosystems; (ii)   based on recommendations from (i), and implement at
                                                                                 identify
       least 3 ecological corridors which would interlink the environmentally protected areas o f the state
       (through conservation units      or rural property legal conversation areas), and link the state's
       protected areas to the ecological corridors already defmed by the Federal Ministry o f Environment
       and/or IBAMA (including the corridors Araguaia-Bananal, Paranh-Pirineus, and Jalap50                 -
       Chapada das Mangabeiras); (iii)prepare management and administration plans for 6 priority
       environmental protection areas; (iv) support the creation o f the 6 areas; (v) expand the state's
       climatic and hydrological monitoring system, through the installation o f automatic meteorological
       and hydrological stations in the areas with highpotential for economic use, so as to be able to
       better determine the scope o f the economic potential, as well as essential elements, the variation o f
       which could affect the fragile ecosystems present in these areas; and (vi) identify and gather basic
       data on the localization, magnitude and quality o f the state's main surface and subterraneanwater
       sources, andpropose selectedsources for protection.

   (c) supporting the regulation and promotion of sustainable land use, through definition of adequate
       incentives, economic and regulatory instruments for implementationo f land management policies,
       definition and implementation o f licensing procedures for rural properties, and improvement o f
       technological support to small producers. This sub-component will provide fundmg for technical
       assistance to review the existing land use institutional and legal framework, present international
       experience, propose modifications/complement to the framework, defme legal and financial
       instruments to provide adequate incentives with respect to the protection o f fragile ecosystems and
       sustainable use o f natural resources, review the determinationprocess o f areas o f rural properties
       not to be exploited (Areas de Reserva Legal) and define a framework for environmental
       certification o f productive activities on rural properties, and propose a strategy to implement the
       basics o f a land use policy inthe state. The sub-component will also support the carrying out o f
       information campaigns to sensibilize municipalities and local communities to requirements
       pertaining to sustainable use o f natural resources and protection o f fragile ecosystems, and to
       gradually involve municipalities and local communities inthe monitoring o f natural resources use,
       through establishment o f partnerships with Naturatins and participation to the municipal
       development fora and CONDERs.

ProjectComponent3 US$65.50 million
                     -
RuralTransport ImprovementComponent(YOof projectbaselinecost)

   (a) strengthening the state's road management capacity, by ensuring the preparation, monitoring and
       evaluation o f efficient state road programs, and gradually increasing the state's road maintenance
       capacity, including introduction o f performance-based maintenance contracts, decentralization o f
       maintenance activities through creation o f new districts and development o f maintenance capacity
       at the municipal or inter-municipal level.         This sub-component will provide funding for
       maintenance works, training, technical assistance and equipment to: (i)       strengthen DERTINS'
       planning system, through actualization o f the road network database (including carrying out o f
       road condition surveys), introduction o f the RED model for economic evaluation o f road
       improvement activities on low-volume roads, review o f the road administration technical standards,
       inclusion o f ZEEs recommendations and feedback o f civil society in planning road infrastructure
       development; (ii)strengthen DERTINS' management capacity, through the consolidation and
       modernization o f DERTINS' key planning, management and monitoring systems, through the


                                                   -43-

           preparation and implementationo f performance-based road maintenance contracts on about 1,000
           km. of paved state roads and 1,000 km. of non-paved state roads, the set-up and operation of 3
           new state road districts, and the consolidation o f the road administration capacity to provide
           municipalities with technical advice on organization o f road maintenance activities; and (iii)
           provide technical training to the road administration staff in areas including road sector policies
           andstandards, network monitoring and planning, quality assurance, supervision andmonitoring of
           road maintenance, rehabilitation and construction activities, as well as inraising awareness o f staff
           with respect to direct andindirect environmental impacts generatedby road works.

    (b) de$ning in a participatoryfashion and improving, to all-weather condition, about 6,000 km. of
          priority road sections on the main municipal road networks, and about 120 km. of high-priority
          statefeeder roads linking the main municipal networks to the primary transport network this
           sub-component will provide funding for preparation o f engineering studies, designs and
           environmental and social assessments, improvement works, as well as carrying out o f supervision
           andimpact monitoring activities.

Improvement of municipal road networks

The upgrading o f municipal road sections will consist o f reconstruction o f bridges and (re)-construction of
culverts, in accordance to agreed-upon standard designs. Given budgetary constraints (it is estimated that
the project will allow to carry out upgrading o f only up to 15% ofthe extension o f each o fthe 67 municipal
networks), each o f the 67 municipalities under the project has been given a maximum budgetaryallocation,
determined as a fixed term and a linear h c t i o n o f the municipality's size and number of inhabitants. The
allocation formula used is:

           Q=685,000       +146"P +192.4"A

          Where: Q is the amount allocated by municipality (inR$)
                     P is the population of the municipality (innumber o f inhabitants)
                     A is the area ofthe municipality (inkm2)

The fixed term has been introduced to take into account the wide disparities in population and surface
between the municipalities inthe regions targeted by the project. The fixed term corresponds to upgrading
on about 30 kmo fmunicipal road sections.

Using this formula, and taking into account the fact that improvement activities are to start first in the
regions with higher population density, it is estimated that upgrading activities will be implemented at the
following pace:




Note: it is estimatedthat the upgradingof about 6,000 km ofmunicipalroads will correspondto the (re)-construction ofabout
600 bridgesand9,000 culverts.




                                                          - 44 -

The process to be followed for selection o froad improvement activities is detailed inthe diagram below:

                    Processfor selection of improvementactivities on municipal networks




                    concept,modelof convenio, mapof municipalnetwork,and budget allocated



                   Municipalcouncil andforum, with supportfrom DERTINS,discuss the terms of
                  the convenio, an outlineof the mainmunicipalnetwork and priortized list of road
                  sectionson which improvementsneedto take place,on the basisof the criterias
                                                        below.


                SEPLANlDERTlNS prepares minutesof the forumlcouncildiscussionsandthe
                priortized listof roadsections to be improved. The minutesaresigned by the
                forumlcouncilrepresentativesandsent bythe mayorto GAP.




                 NATURANTINS.Wouldthe inclusionof specigic
                 roadsectionsinthe subprojectresult in negative                  consultationwith municipalforumlcouncil.
                  impactstoo difficult to mitigateat this time, or is
                  the execution of some works to besubmittedto
                   specificpreventionor mitigationmeasures?



                 GAP sendsa municipalsubprojectapplication (includingthe main characteristics
                  of the road sectionsto be improved,the economic evaluationandthe municipal
                  road network map),the signedconvenio,the minutes of the forum's discussions,
                   NATURATINSauthoriztion/license. andthe municipaldevelopment agenda for
                                                 review bvthe Bank.


                     is documentationsubmittedsatisfactory?
                                                                                forwards them, if necessary,to



               IDERTiNSto oroceedwith biddinaof works                1



                Contractfor roadimprovementactivitiescan be


Criterias: (I)budgetallocation,andstandarddesignsto be used; (ii) no new municipalroad, no bridges longer than 30m, no
roadsections passingthroughor providinga direct linkto a protectedarea or an area with potentialfor protection,and (iii)
prioritygivento roads: (a) used by schoolbuses, (b) providingaccessto health centers; (c) havingthe highesttraffic levels,
and extent of productiveareas and numberof peoplewithin the road's area of influence; and (d) providingconnectionswith
other municipalities,andthe statenetwork.




                                                                       -45-

Improvement of statefeeder roads

It is estimated that about 120 km. priority feeder roads providing important links between the regions
targeted by the project and the main transport networks will be improved under the project. Improvements
will consist of rehabilitation of road surface, when necessary strengthening o f road infrastructure and
rehabilitationheconstruction o f road base, and when economically justified, paving of road surface.
Pavement structures will generally consist o f granular base and sub-base courses totaling about 30 to 40
cm and a double surface treatment. Engineering studies, designs, environmental and social assessments,
and if necessary, resettlement plans and indigenous people displacement plans will be presented for the
Bank'sreview, inorder to allow the Bank to give its no-objectionto the biddingo fspecific works.




                                                  -46-

The process to be followed for selection o f road improvement activities is detailed inthe diagram below:

                                       Processfor selection of improvementactivitieson state feeder roads

  SEPLAN providessocio-                  A roadsectionto be improvedis identifiedby a CONDER with suppolt from UTR
  economicenvironmental                   on the basis of informationprovidedby SEPLANIDERTiNS,taking intoaccount                     providestechnical
                                                                        the criteriasbelow.                                           informationlinked
    the region's economic
potential,notablythroughth


                                                                                 U
                                          SEPLANandSEINFDERTINSevaluatethe proposal,buildinginthe estimated
                                                                     cost of road improvement
                                                                 I I

                                          Wouldthe identifiedroad improvementsresult
     reasonsfor rejection                    intoenvironmentaland/or social negative
                                           impactstoo difficukto mitigateat this time?



                                                                SEPLANlSEiNFsubmitto Bank rationalefor roadsectionand road
                                                            improvementselection,includingsocio-economicjustification,descriptionof
                               -                             proposedroad improvementsand expected main impactson environment,
                                                           mitigationmeasuresexpected to betaken, including:(i) evidencedocumenting
                                                                 stakeholders' participationinthe definitionof the roadsectionand
                                                           improvementsto becarriedout; and (ii) if necessary,terms of referenceforthe
                                                           preparationof an environmentalmanagementplanand/or indigeneous people



 Bankjustifies rejectionand
 adviseson next steps                                                                                                                 adviseson next steps


                                                                          Yes    0                              0      Yes

                                                            Uponreceipt of Bank'sauthorizationto preparedetailedimprovementproject
                                                          documentation, SEiNFlDERTINSpreparedetailedengineeringdesigns, EiA or
                                                            PCA, EMP,and if necessaryIPDPand RP, and submit documentationto the



   Documentationrevisedto take into accounts Bank's                         Isthe Banksatisfiedwith the documentation?
                                ts


                                                            SEiNFlDERTINSpreparebiddingdocumentfor road improvementactivities
                             w                                                   andsubmitfor Bank'sno-obiection


  Bidding document revisedto take into                    Isthe bidding document satisfactoryto the Bankon the procurement,technical,
       account Bank'scomments                                                       and environmentalaspects?
                                                                                           Yes


                                                                          and draft contractto issue environmentallicens



  Documentationand draft contract revisedto take into                     Is NATURATINSsatisfiedwith documentation?
            accountNATURATiNS'comments

                                                         I           Contractfor road imorovementactivitiescan besioned               I
Criterias: (I)nosingleproject proposalwith preliminary cost estimateabove US$lOmiiiion;(ii) type of improvementseligiblelimitedto rehat tation of roadsurface,
when necessarystrengtheningof road infrastructureand rehabilitationlreconstructionof road base,andwhen economicallyjustified, paving: (iii) no roadthrough or
givingdirect accessto protectedareas,hightraffic levels, low densityof existing roadsingood condition;and (iv) highextentof productiveareas and nuumberof
peoplewithin the roadsarea of influence,high numberof municipalroads connectedbythe state roadsectionlinks and highnumberof connectionsprovided bythe
roadto other reaionsof the stateor neiohborinastates.




                                                                      -47-

(c) promotion of cost-effective rural transport services: this sub-component will finance technical
   assistance to: (i) the Secretariat o f Planning, to identify and optimize the potential for synergy
   betweenthe various public programs which contribute to developing demand for transport services,
   participate to the development o f road infrastructure or provision o f transport services in rural
   areas. Technical assistance will also be provided to review transport subsidies determination and
   targeting mechanisms; and (ii) municipalities, through the Secretariat o f Planning, to develop
                                    the
   strategies to meet transport demand at the local level, through involvement of the private sector,
   inter-municipalities consortia, producers' cooperatives, local communities, and entities responsible
   for providing transport services in areas such as education, health, public administration and the
   like.

(d)support toproject management:This sub-component will finance training, technical assistanceand
   equipment to the project implementation unit staff to support the unit incoordinating the execution
   of the project, in monitoring and evaluating project implementation and results, and in preparing
   periodic progress reports and financial management reports.




                                              -48-

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
       BRAZIL:TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


                       Project Cost By Component
ParticipatoryPlanning and Management of Regional and                                                4.80                     1.30                    6.10
Municipal Development
Environmental andLandUse Management                                                                  8.15                    1.95                   10.10
Rural Transport Improvement                                                                       45.50                   20.00                    65.50
Total BaselineCost                                                                                58.45                   23.25                    81.70
PhysicalContingencies                                                                                6.10                   2.20                     8.30
Price Contingencies                                                                                 4.45                    4.95                     9.40
                                         Total Project Costs'                                     69.00                   30.40                    99.40
                                                                Front-endfee                                                0.60                     0.60
                                 Total Financing Required                                         69.00                   31.OO                   100.00

                                                                                                  Local                Foreign                     Total
                         Project Cost By Category                                              US $million           US$million               US $million
Goods
Works
Services                                                                                               9.00                     4.40                   13.40
Zoning and EnvironmentalSurveys                                                                        6.80                      1.70                   8.50
Training                                                                                               2.50                     0.80                    3.30
                                                         Total Project Cost:                         69.00                    30.40                    99.40
                                                                     Front-endfee                                               0.60                    0.60
                                                Total Financing Required                             69.00                    31.OO                   100.00

  1
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 17 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 83 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 72.29% of total
  projectcost net o ftaxes.




                                                                    -49-

                               Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
          BRAZIL: TOCANTINSSUSTAINABLE REGIONALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Summary of Methodology and Results:

This annex summarizes the cost-benefit analyses o f the various components o f the project which are
presented inthe Borrower's report entitled PDRS, Relatbrio de Avaliap`io Econbmica, Marc0 de 2003).
                                               "
A comprehensive cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the main investment component which consists
o f improving the project regions' main municipal road networks (totaling over 6,000 km.) to all weather
condition (about 50% o f total project cost). The criteria and methodology for the economic analyses o f the
state feeder road improvement subprojects (about 15% o f total project costs), which will complement the
municipal network subprojects and will be identifiedonly during project implementation, have been clearly
defined duringproject preparation. Inparticular, no such subproject will be financedunder the loan unless
the criteria mentionedon pages45 and 47 are satisfied and the Bank is satisfied that its economic internal
rate o f return, estimated on the basis o f the agreedmethodology, is at least 12%. The economic and social
benefits o f the remaining project components for participatory planning and management of regional and
municipal development, and for land use management and biodiversity conservation, are not easily
quantifiable; they have essentially been identifiedqualitatively.

1. Municipal RoadNetwork Component

Ingeneral, improvements on municipal roadnetworks do not generate substantial cost savings for road
users since existing traffic is very low. The main economic benefits o f such improvements, particularly
when they are part of a well-defined municipal development agenda, are increases in agricultural and
livestock production and productivity. In areas with potential for eco-tourism, economic benefits could
also include increases intourism andartifact activities.

The methodology for the cost-benefit analysis o f this component was based on the "producer surplus"
approach. In summary, it consists o f comparing the improvement and maintenance costs o f the road
network sub-project with the economic benefits derived from increases in net agricultural and livestock
production, net o f local consumption and production costs. This methodology entails the definition o f
certain assumptions about future increases in agricultural and livestock production and productivity as a
consequenceo f the road improvements. Conservative assumptions were made with help from the available
municipal development agendas (see following section).          The methodology and assumptions will be
gradually improved on the basis o f the experience derivedfrom the proposed permanent impact evaluation
system(Annex 11, Monitoringand Evaluation System).

International and Brazil experience shows that rural road improvements generally have substantial social
impacts shortly after completion, even intimes o f economic disruptions (see OED Precis No. 160, Feeder
Roads in Brazil). With improved access to schools, attendance and ultimately the quality o f education
improves. With improved access to hospitals and clinics, and easier access o f health officers to rural
communities, the quality o f heath services also substantially improves. Easier transport also means better
access to non-farm job opportunities, particularly for women and for landless rural workers. All these
effects contribute to increasing the productivity and income o f the rural population, with an important
impact on reducing poverty and improving well-being. But these social benefits are not easily quantifiable
ex-ante since they depend on numerous socioeconomic, cultural and environmental variables.             The
proposed monitoring and evaluation system will help develop ex-post assessments o f such effects which
could then provide a reasonable basis for future ex-ante assessments.



                                                      - 50 -

The present value of the flow o fnet economic benefits ("V)   generatedby this component over the next 10
years is estimated at about R$ 42.1 million for a 12% discount rate, on the basis o f the conservative
estimates and assumptions (e.g. excluding, inter alia, any social benefits in terms o f access to services)
described in the following sections. Its economic intemal rate o f return is estimated at about 18.5 % (see
table hereafter).

2.  StateRoads Component:

Ingeneral, improvements on state roads which already have an establishedtraffic ofat least 150 vehicles
per day will generatesubstantial benefits inthe form of reductions o froaduser costs ("consumer surplus").
Such projects are subject to an ex-ante cost-benefit analysis to compare the costs o f the proposed and
altemative road rehabilitation andlor improvement works with the corresponding benefits to be derived
from savings invehicle operating costs and travel time, andinroad maintenance costs.

The cost-benefit analyses are carried out using the RoadEconomic Development (RED) model, which was
developed by the World Bank on the basis of various elements of the Highway Design and Maintenance
(HDM)model. The modelallows to introduce additional, indirect economic benefitsresulting from new or
additional economic activities induced bythe reduced transport costs, where such benefits are considered to
be substantial. These benefits are computed either in the form o f "generated traffic" or following the
"producer surplus'' methodology (section 1 above).      By comparing alternative investment options, the
model allows to optimize an investment program on a given road or network.

The RED model has been developed to improve the decision-making process for the improvement and
maintenance o f low-volume rural roads. The model performs an economic evaluation o f road investments
options using the consumer surplus approach and is customized to the characteristics and needs o f
low-volume roads such as the uncertainty o f the model inputs, particularly the traffic and condition o f
unpaved roads, the importance o f vehicle speeds for model validation, and the need to clearly define all
accrued benefits. RED computes benefits for motorized traffic, and takes into account changes in road
length, condition, geometry, type, accidents, and days per year when the passage of vehicles is hrther
disrupted by a highlydeteriorated road condition for example inthe rainy season.

Since the state road sections to be improved will only be identifiedduring project implementation, on the
basis o fthe proposed decentralized and participativeregional planningprocess, the above methodology was
only applied on test cases for training purpose during project preparation. Prior to undertaking such state
road subproject, the Borrower is obligated under the loan documents to prepare and present to the Bank a
subproject application, including a cost-benefit analysis following the above agreed methodology. The
Bank will only approve subprojects that meet the criteria specified on page 47 and which have an estimated
economic intemal rate o f retum o f at least 12%, based on a satisfactory cost-benefit analysis using the
REDmodel.




                                                   -51 -

         [For projectswith benefits that are measuredin monetaryterms]




    livestock

Consumersurplus:



  .investments




Votes: Table refers to MunicipalRoadNetwork Component only (about 50% o f total project cost)
 all amounts are expressedinR$million.

IIfthe difference betweenthe presentvalue offinancialandeconomic flows islargeandcannotbeexplainedby
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation o f the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits is less
than that o f economic benefits because o f controls on electricity tariffs."

SummaryofBenefitsand Costs:

1. Municipal RoadNetwork Component:

The main economic benefits to be derived from this component, which will provide f m e r s with reliable,
year-round access to markets and to services available in municipal centers, are increases in farmers
productivity and production, which are measured by the so-called "producer surplus". The producer
surplus was calculated as the increase, resulting from the project component, o f the value o fproduction net
o f production costs.     It was assumed that the component would have negligible impact on local
consumption o f local produce. The areas o f influence o f the main municipal road networks which will be
upgraded under this component were estimated at about 10 km2 per km o f road, which corresponds to
about 44% o f the total area o f the regions included inthe project.

Agricultural production was represented by the five main products, i.e. rice, sugar cane, cassava, com and
soybeans, cattle ranching by meat andmilk production. The following table presents current production ,
production value at current market prices, costs, and production value net o f costs (all estimated for 2003
based on available data for 2001) in the area o f influence o f the component; as well as the corresponding
estimates for 3, 5 and 10 years after project start up, resulting from the effects o f the project component
(for the purpose o f this evaluation, it was assumedthat production, prices and costs would remain constant
over the periodifthe component was not implemented, see section on main assumptions).




                                                         - 52 -

                      Estimatesand Projectionsof Farm Productionand ProducerSurplus
                                      in the project's area of influence


                                          Total Rice Sugar Cassava Corn       Soy-    Meat  Milk
     Year 2003                                           Cane                 beans (heads)(m.liters)
     Area (1OA6ha)                         68.0 20.5       1.5       2.5 12.8  28.6     2.0      0.1
     Yield (tlha)                                 1.6     64.7      12.4  2.0   2.2    0.06      0.1
     Production(1000 t)                     376    32      97         31  25    64     117       9.0
     ProductionValue (R$ 1O"6)            148.4 11.1      4.5        1.5  6.4  19.9   105.0      n.a.
     ProductionCost (R$ lO"6)              84.6   6.4     3.0        0.3 4.0   10.9    60.0      n.a.
     Net Value of Production(R$ 10A6)      65.2   4.7     1.5        1.2 2.4    9.0    45.0      1.4
     Project Year 3
    Area (1OA6ha)                          85.3 24.6      1.8        3.0 16.6  37.2     2.0      0.1
    Yield (Vha)                                   1.8    66.0       14.0 2.2    2.3    0.06      0.1
     Production(1000 t)                    465     44     119        42   37    86     128      10.1
     ProductionValue (R$ IO"6)            166.0 15.3      5.5        2.0 9.2   26.5   107.5      n.a.
     ProductionCost (R$ 10"6)              87.7   6.9     3.4        0.3 4.5   12.6    60.0      n.a.
     NetValue of Production(R$ 1O"6)       79.8   8.4     2.1        1.7 4.7   13.9    47.5      1.5
     Producer Surplus                      14.6 3.7       0.6        0.5  2.3   4.9     2.5      0.2
     ProjectYear 5
    Area (1O"6 ha)                        102.3 29.5      2.2        4.0 19.9  44.6     2.0      0.1
    Yield (tlha)                                  2.1    66.0       14.0 2.3    2.4    0.07      0.2
     Production(1000 t)                    567     62     145         56  46    107    135      16.0
     ProductionValue (R$ lO"6)            185.0 21.4      6.7        2.7 11.5  33.1   109.5      n.a.
    ProductionCost (R$ lO"6)               90.2   7.4     4.0        0.4 5.0   13.4    60.0      n.a.
    NetValue of Production(R$ 1O"6)        97.2 14.0      2.7        2.3 6.5   19.7    49.5      2.4
    Producer Surplus                       32.0   9.3     1.2        1.1 4.1   10.7     4.5       1.1
    ProjectYear 10
    Area (1OA6ha)                         150.7 44.3      2.6        5.0 29.9  66.9     2.0      0.1
    Yield (tlha)                                  2.1    66.0       14.0 2.3    2.4    0.08      0.2
    Production(1000t)                      745    93      174        70   69    161    157      22.0
    ProductionValue (R$ lO"6)             222.4 32.0      8.1        3.4 17.2  49.7   111.9      ma.
    ProductionCost (R$ 1O"6)              100.6 10.2      4.6        0.5 6.6   18.7    60.0      n.a.
    NetValue of Production(R$ 1O"6)       125.1 21.8      3.5        2.9 10.6  31.0    51.9      3.3
    IProducerSurplus                       59.9 17.1      2.0        1.7 8.2   22.0     6.9      2 4



The net present value o f these annual flows o f producer surplus generated by the component over 10 years
are estimated at about R$ 136.3 million for a 12% discount rate.

Another economic benefit derived from the proposed improvements to municipal road networks and
consequent reduction o f transport costs would be the resulting cost savings on consumer goods "imported"
by the rural communities located inthe areas o f influence of the roadnetworks. An attempt was made to
quantify such savings. The total income ofthe rural population inthe project's four regions is estimated at
R$ 160 million, of which R$ 71 million in the direct area o f influence o f this component. These cost
savings were conservatively estimated to gradually increase up to 10% o f one-half o f the rural
communities' incomes (whtch would correspond to "imported" consumer goods) by year 10. The net


                                                        - 53 -

present value o f these annual flows o f cost savings over 10 years at 12% is estimated at about R$ 10.5
million.

The other benefits associated with improved access to schools, health services and non-farm jobs, as
identified in the previous section, may actually be very significant as they translate into increased
productivity, income and well being o f rural communities. Efforts will be made to quantify them under the
project monitoring and evaluation component.

The total cost o f the component is estimated at about R$ 145 million over 4 years. Assuming, very
conservatively, a residual value o f 10% of the investment after 10 years, the net present value o f the flows
o f costs is estimated at R$ 104.7 million.

2.    StateRoads Component:

The economic benefits and costs o f state road subprojects, essentially road user cost and travel time
savings, will be assessed in the course o f project implementation, when such subprojects are identified,
usingthe RoadEconomic Development (RED) modelas describedinthe above methodology section.

3. ParticipatoryPlanning and Management of Regional andMunicipalDevelopment Component:

This component includes two main subcomponents for: (i)      strengthening the planning and management of
public expenditures through, inter-alia, effective participation o f civil society inpreparing andmonitoring
regional and municipal sustainable development plans (see section 4 hereafter); and (ii)    strengthening the
capacity o f state and municipal administrations to effectively deliver local public services. By improving
the relevancy, targeting, inter-governmental and inter-sectoral coordination o f public expenditures,
including public - private partnerships, the first subcomponent could substantially increase the efficiency
and effectiveness of public expenditures, andhave direct impacts on the competitiveness andgrowth o f the
state's economy.

4.   EnvironmentalManagement Component:

The environmental management component also includes two main subcomponents for: (i) use              land
management; and (ii)     biodiversity conservation. By improving the effectiveness o f land use management
through zonings, economic and regulatory instruments, and licensing o f rural properties, the private sector,
including farmers and cattle ranchers, will make a more optimal use o f natural resources, increasing the
efficiency and the sustainability o f these activities statewide. The economic benefits derived from the
effective implementation o f such policies and programs can be huge, but they are not easily quantifiable
ex-ante. Similarly, conservation o f fragile eco-systems and biodiversity through the implantation o f the
proposed new conservation units and ecological corridors will improve the capacity o f the environment to
maintain and renew the state's natural resources, including surface and subterranean water, needed by
economic activities, and provide incentives for new, eco-tourism activities. Again, these effects cannot be
easily assessed, but they are intuitively very significant. Efforts will be made under the Environmental
Management Component, to assess such effects duringproject implementation.

MainAssumptions:

The project is expected to be implemented over six years within the estimated costs, which is a realistic
assumption considering the excellent performance o f the Borrower under the previous highway project, and
the fact that basically the same management teams inboth SEPLAN and SEINFDERTINS are responsible


                                                    - 54 -

for the implementationo f this new project. Nevertheless, appropriate physical contingencies (about 10%o f
project cost) and price contingencies (about 7% o f project cost inU S dollars) have been included inproject
cost estimates.

The mainproject benefits which have been quantifiedare increases infarmers' productivity and production.
The assessment assumes that the markets o f the project regions' main commodities will not be subject to
major changes in the forthcoming years. On this basis, it can be expected that with more reliable and
cheaper transport, farmers will reduce their production costs and increase production. The prices of some
commodities, however, could fluctuate considerably inthe future, as they didinthe past, particularly sugar
and soybeans. But international and Brazil experience shows that, with reliable transport services, farmers
quickly respond to changes in commodity markets by shifting or diversifying their crops. An interesting
example is the feeder roads program financed by the Bank in the state o f Bahia in the 1980s when cocoa
prices were very favorable. When cocoa and coffee prices dropped inthe early 1990s, farmers were able to
diversify crops and shift to other nonagricultural activities (see OED Precis No. 160, Feeder Roads in
Brazil).

Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of critical items:

The sensitivity analysis has shown that the economic return o f the project is robust. Assumingthat project
costs would be 20% higher than estimates, the IRRwould still be 14.5%. Ifproject benefits would be 20%
lower than estimates, the IRRwould still be13.6%. The switching values for investment costs andbenefits
would be +35% and-26% respectively for the NPVto become negative. And the socio-economic benefits
which have not been quantified but qualitatively described in the previous sections would remain
substantial.




                                                   - 55 -

                                       Annex 5: FinancialSummary
         BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                               Years Ending
                                                  June 30

                            I                               IMPLEMENTATIONPERlOD-
                               Year1     I   year2    I    Year3     1 year4     I    Year5    I  Year6     I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts                   0.4          11.1           31.5       22.2            16.9         9.4      2.9
 RecurrentCosts                     0.0           0.6           2.0          1.5           0.9          0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs                 0.4          11.7           33.5       23.7            17.8         9.4      2.9
             Front-endfee           0.6           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0      0.0
Total Financing                     1.o          11.7           33.5       23.7            17.8         9.4      2.9
Financing
  IBRDllDA                          0.9           7.0           20.0        14.0           10.7        5.4       2.0
  Government                        0.1           4.7           13.5         9.7           7.1         4.0       0.9
      Central                       0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0       0.0
      Provincial                    0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0       0.0
  Co-financiers                     0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries             0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0       0.0
Other                               0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing             1.o          11.7           33.5       23.7            17.8        9.4       2.9

  Mainassumptions:
  The Project is approved inNovember 2003, and the loan becomes effective inFebruary 2004.

  The project'sfinancialimpact
  Looking at the financial impact o f the proposed loan, it appears that the overall impact will be minimum,
  even with respect to the state's debt service to current revenues ratio, as: (i)  planned disbursements are
  expected at a level o f about 2.3% p.a. over 5 years o f the remaining debt level limit imposed by the LRF;
  (ii) serviceoverthe2003-2005periodwillnotincreasethedebtservicetocurrentrevenuesratioabove
      debt
  10% (see table below); (iii) debt service will be about 1.3% o f averagedprojectednet current revenues,
                               the
  once the loan is hlly disbursed; and (iv) the proposed loan's requirements interms o f counterpart financing
  will also be small, at about 1.4% p.a. on average over 5 years of averaged projectednet current revenues.




                                                     - 56 -

                            Table 5: TocantinsDebt Service Schedule 2002-2010,
                     I                       (In RS millions)
                      2002  I2003       2004  I  2005    I 2006   I  2007  I  2008 I 2009  I2010


   Total Debt
   Service (without
   WB Loan) (1)        88.1  155.1     165.6     167.1     170.1     169.0    164.3  131.1  100.3

   Debt Service
   (without loan) /
   NCR Ratio (2)       6.3    10.0      9.9       9.2       8.6       7.9      7.1    5.2    3.7

   WB Loan
   Interest
   Payments (3)              0.18       0.85     2.25       4.58     7.18     8.51    7.87   7.02
   WB Loan
   Amortizations
   (4)                                                                        14.18  28.36  28.36

   WB LoanDebt
   Service (5)=
   (3)+(4)                   0.18

   Total Debt
   Service (with
   WB Loan) (6)
   =(1)+(5)           88.1   155.3

   Debt Service
   (with loan) /
   NCR Ratio (7)       6.3   10.0

   Ceiling LRF in
   R$ million
   (11.5%ofNCR)                               I          I        I        I        I      I
   (8)                160.0  178.8     192.4     208.1     226.2     245.8    267.2  291.7  318.6

   Further space for
   debt amortization
   R$ (9)=8-6         71.9   23.5       25.5     38.8       51.6     69.6     80.2   124.4  182.9

   Further space for
   debt amortization
   in (%) LW
   Ceiling-(7)         5.2    1.5       1.5      2.1        2.6       3.3      3.5    4.9    6.6

Mainassumptions:




                                                 - 57 -

                                 Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
        BRAZIL: TOCANTINSSUSTAINABLE REGIONALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

Procurement
A procurement assessment was carried out, on the basis o ftwo visits to Palmas, inMay and October 2002.
The overall procurement risk assessment is estimated as average, that is, the procurementkontract
management systems and arrangements, as well as the experience o f the staff to be responsible for
procurement and contract management are adequate, andmeets Bank's requirements, as demonstrated over
the last six months, duringthe process o f elaboration o f the biddingdocuments and requests for proposals
for the first year's activities.

Institutional Capacity. All procurement activities under the project will be carried out by the State's
Permanent Procurement Commission (ComissBo Permanente de Licitaqaes - CPL), which reports to the
State's Secretary o f Infrastructure. The CPL is composed o f 11 permanent staff, which i s adequate for
their normal workload.

The Project Coordination Unit (Gerbncia Administrativa do Projeto, GAP), established under the Director
of Strategic Support (Diretoria de Apoio EstratCgico                - DAE) of SEINF, will coordinate and monitor all
project activities implemented by the three executing agencies (see diagram below), including procurement
planning, scheduling, monitoring and reporting, disbursementsandinternal controls, maintenance o fproject
accounts and preparation o f project management reports.                  The GAP is headed by a project manager and
staffed with 5 (full time) professionals (one engineer, one procurement specialist, one computer specialist,
one administrative assistant and at least one accountant). GAP will have the support o f the staff o f
DAE/SEINF, SEPLAN (for the environmental andregional planning components), DERTINS (for the road
components), and CPL (for procurement). SEINF will, as necessary, hire consultants inaccordance with
Bank Guidelines, to assist GAP in carrying out its activities, including preparing biddingdocuments and
monitoringproject implementation.


                                       PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS



                                            Project Committee (GAP)
             PLANNING SECRETARIAT                                                  INFRASTRUCTURE
                     (SEPLAN)         -     Function: Overall Project       -        SECRETARIAT
                                            Monitoring and Coordination                  (SEINF)


                                                                                                         DERTINS
                                                                                                  Function: Implementation
   Planning Direction (DPL)      Direction for Ecologice                                                      of
  Function: Implementationo f    Economico Zoning (DZE)        -     Project Coordination              Rural Transport
  Planningand Managementof      Function: Implementation of  -Unit       (GAP)                     Improvement component




                                                                                                   Civil Works and support to
      Researchand                                                                                  Municipalities
                                                                                               \I
       Information                   Environment and                  Commission (CPL)
     Department(DPI)                 Water Resources                    Function: Project                FINANCE
                                    (DMA) Function:                       Procurement                SECRETARIAT
                               Implementation of hydrological                                            (SEFAZ)
                                      sub-component                                                  Function: Project
                                                                                                   Paymentshtemal audit




                                                              - 58 -

Most permanent staff in GAP are familiar with Bank procurement policies and procedures since they have
been involved in the procurement activities o f the recently completed Tocantins State Highway
Management Project (Loan 3714-BR). The GAP for the proposed project will be rapidly fully operational
since it will incorporate most o f the staff o f the former project coordination unit for the highway project
who remained in DAE for the new project. The implementation o f the highway project has been rated
highly satisfactory by the Bank andbythe Government ofBrazil. Although staff o fGAP and CPL entities
have adequate knowledge o f procurement under national rules and adequate capacity for supervision o f
procurement with Bank financing, procurement training has been provided to all relevant staff before the
beginningof Project implementation. Such training will continue to be available to staff during project
implementation.

Procurement administration under the Project. In order to effectively carry out the procurement
activities under the project, it was agreed that CPL, depending on the work load generated by the project,
will make available two additional lawyers and two additional staff members with computer skills. The
three executing agencies will draft TORS, technical specifications and, with the assistance o f GAP and
CPL, prepare the bidding documents or Requests for Proposal. After reviewing the documents, GAP will
forward those which require prior review to the Bank for review andno-objection. The documents will then
be sent to CPL. CPL will be responsible for advertising and receiving expressions o f interest, proposals
and bids. CPL will organize the bidevaluation and will draft the bidor proposals evaluation reports, with
the participation o f the technicians from the executing agencies andGAP. GAPwill forward the evaluation
report for the Bank review and no objection as necessary.

 Procurementmethods(Table A)

 A detailed procurement planhas beenprepared for most ofthe six years ofproject implementation, which
identifies clearly most part o f the works, services and goods to be procured under the project. The
procurement plan will be updated annually and will be agreed with the Bank's prior to the submission o f
budgetaryproposals to the State Secretariatof Finance. The annual updated procurement planwill include:
i)listofcontractscompleted,underexecution,underprocurement,tobeprocured;ii)costofcompletedand
under execution contracts and estimated costs for upcoming contracts; ii)schedule o f biddings; and iv)
particular methods o fprocurement o f goods or selection o f consultants.

Procurement Methods. The Bank-financed procurement will be carried out in accordance with the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement and: a) the World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
(publishedin January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) for
goods and works and; b) the World Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants
(published in January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002) for technical
assistance and other consultants assignments. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposal will be used for the Bank-financed ICB works/goods and consultant
services, respectively. For NCB procurement o f works the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will also
be used. For NCB procurement o f goods, the Project will use the biddingstandardmodel document issued
by SEAIN in November 2000. The project's procurement arrangements for each component are
summarized inTable A.

International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods and works estimated to cost US$500,0000 and
US$lO,OOO,OOO equivalent per contract or more, will be procured through Intemational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. Three`contracts will be procured under this method. One is related to the
improvement o f 120 km o f state roads estimated to cost US$11,000,000,           and the other two to the


                                                      - 59 -

procurement o f hardware and software for the strengthening of municipal management systems (for a total
estimated cost o f US$1,500,000).

National Competitive Building(NCB). Goods estimated to cost less thanUS$500,000 equivalent, but not
less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount o f US$l,lOO,OOO may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f NCB procedures. Two contracts have been identified to
be procuredunder this method. They relate to the purchase o f vehicles and computer hardwarehoftware for
the various government entities involved inproject implementation.

National Competitive Building (NCB). Works estimated to cost less than US$10,000,000 equivalent, but
not less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount o f US$37,400,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f NCB procedures. 16 contracts will be procured under
NCB method under the municipal road network spot improvement component o f the project, and 3 contract
under the state road improvement andmaintenance component.

International or National Shopping (IS or NS). Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000, may be purchased on the
basis o f price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. All equipments for the project, with
exception o f the two mentioned above (to be procured under NCB method), will be procured under this
method. This includes small packages o f computer equipment, vehicles, office equipment, and
meteorological andhydrologicalmeasuring equipment.

Procurement of Small Works (SW). Works estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$24,000,000 may be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. About 50 contracts will be procured under SW method
underthe municipal roadnetwork spot improvementcomponent of the project, and6 such contracts will be
procuredunder the environmental management component of the project, for the establishment o f protected
areas.

Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure will be used for consultant services and training
contracts. About 20 contracts will be procured through this method, for a value o f US$17,000,000.

Quality-Based Selection (QBS) procedure will be used for specialized consultants services up to an
aggregateamount o f US$1,000,000 equivalent.

Least-Cost Selection (LCS) procedure will be used for consultant services and technical assistance and
training contracts, costing less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate amount o f US$l, 100,000 million
equivalent.

Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications procedure will be usedfor consultants services contracts
costing less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount o f US$200,000.

Individual Consultant based on Qualification procedure will be used for assignments which meet the
criteria specified inSectionV o f the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount o fUS$l,lOO,OOO equivalent.

Single-Source Selection procedure is expected to be used for about 7 contracts, totalling US$1,400,000, to
provide specialized training and deliver environmental management master courses for 12 students and



                                                   - 60 -

environmental management doctorate courses for 10students. Insubmitting a request for any single-source
selection, the Borrower willjustify that the proposed assignment meets the criteria specified in Sections 3.8
to 3.1 1o f the Guidelines.

Employmentof Government-OwnedInstitution. Some o fthe services to be financed underthe loanwill
most likely require the contracting o f Government-owned institutions, especially with respect to provision
o f doctorate and master courses in environmental management, as well as courses and training inthe areas
of public finance and management, planning, land andmunicipal management. Indeed, there are a number
o f Brazilian institutes and universities (Universidade de Siio Paulo, Escola Nacional de Administraqiio
Publica, Escola de Administraqiio Fazendhria, Instituto do Desenvolvimento da Gestiio Publica,
Universidade Federal de KOde Janeiro) which have developed well-known training programs and courses
inthe areas of public management and environmental protection. Inorder to give its no-objection to the
contracting o f any such institution, the Bank will need to be satisfied that the institution meets the eligibility
criteria detailed inSection 1.10 o f the Guidelines.

Advertising. A General ProcurementNotice (GPN) has beenpublishedinthe UnitedNations Development
Business (UNDB) magazine on December 18, 2002 and will be updated annually if there are any
outstanding consultant services and ICB tenders thereafter. In addition, specific procurement notice for
goods and works contracts following ICB and expression o f interest for consultant's contracts above
US$200,000 will be advertised inthe Development Business magazine, inthe Official Gazette o f the State
of Tocantins as well as inappropriate newspaper o fnational circulation.

Procurement Records. Procurement records of the project, including records of time taken to complete
key steps in the process and procurement activities will be maintained by CPL. These records will be
maintained for at least one year after the end o f the fiscal year in which the last disbursement was made.
The records for goods and works will include public notices, biddingdocuments and addenda, bid opening
information, bidevaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related
addenda, records on claims and other useful information. The records for consultants will include public
notices for expression o f interest, request for proposals andaddenda, technical and financial reports, formal
appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts and related addenda; records on claims and other
useful information.




                                                     -61  -

                          Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)


                                                             Procurement Method'
     ExpenditureCategory                     ICB                 NCB             Othei           N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                    12.60                37.40           24.10             0.00      74.10
                                            (6.20)              (20.20)         (13.OO)           (0.00)    (39.40)
2. Goods                                     1.70                1.10             0.50             0.00      3.30
                                            (1.30)              (0.80)           (0.40)           (0.00)    (2.50)
3. Services                                  0.00                0.00            22.00             0.00      22.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)          (17.50)           (0.00)    (17.50)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00                 0.00             0.00             0.00      0.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)    (0.00)
5. Front-endfee                             0.00                 0.00             0.60             0.00      0.60
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.60)           (0.00)    (0.60)
   Total                                    14.30               38.50            47.20             0.00     100.00
                                            (7.50)              (21.OO)          (31.50)          (0.00)    (60.00)

 I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2'Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough small works procedures, international and national
   shopping, and consulting services to procured in accordance to the methods detailed intable A1 below.




                                                       - 62 -

                     Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                       (US$ millionequivalent)




                                                                           1.40     0.00     23.20
                                                                          (1.OO)    (0.00)   (17.80)
                                                                           1.10     0.00      1.10
                                                                          (0.90)   (0.00)    (0.90)
                                                                           2.50     0.00     24.30
                                                                          (1.90)   (0.00)    (18.70)
\Includingcontingencies

         Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
               QBS = Quality-basedSelection
               SFB = Selectionunder a FixedBudget
               LCS = Least-CostSelection
               CQ = SelectionBased on Consultants'Qualifications
               Other = Selectionof individualconsultants(per Section V of ConsultantsGuidelines),and Direct
               Contractingof consultingfirms
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
               Figuresin parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                              - 63 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank's procurement review will be made in accordance with Appendix 1 o f the Guidelines for
Procurement and Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants and the
provisions stipulated inthe LoanAgreement.

Prior review. The following tendering processes will be subject to the Bank's prior review (refer to table
B):

     i.allICBtenderprocesses,irrespectiveoftheestimatedamountofthecontract;

    ii.thefirsttwoNCBandSWtenderprocessesforprocurementofworks;

   iii.thefirstthreeNCBandIS-NStenderprocessesforprocurementofgoods;

   iv. all consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO or more. Inthis case, the
        following documents will be reviewed: terms o f reference, request for proposals, short lists, terms
        and condition o f contracts as well as evaluation reports andrecommendation for award;

    v. individual consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, inwhich
        case the qualification, terms o f reference and draft o f the contract will be forwarded to the Bank
        and will be awarded only after the Bank'sconcurrence.

Ex-post preview. All tenders, regardless o f value, are subject to ex-post review. All documentation,
including but not limited to: terms o f reference, bidding documents or request for proposals, bids or
proposals received, correspondence on all bids either prior to or following award o f contract, including
Bank's no objections, contracts and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until at least two
years following the close o f the Project. DuringBank's supervision missions, not less than 1 in I O tenders
not subject to Bank'sprior review, will be examinedex-post.




                                                    - 64 -

E                 Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                    Contract Value                                          Contracts Subject to
                                       Threshold                   Procurement                  Prior Review
  ExpenditureCategory               (US$ thousands)                   Method                    (US$ millions)
+1.Works                                 > 10,000                       ICB                         11.0

                                   >500and< 10,000                     NCB                          12.0

                                          <500                           SW                         5.0
2. Goods                                  >500                          ICB                          1.5

                                    > 100and<500                       NCB                           1.o

                                          > 100                       IS-NS                         0.2
3. Services                               > 100                       QCBS                          18.0
                                                                       QBS                           1.o
                                          >50                          LCS                           1.1
                                                             Consultants'Qualifications             0.2
                                                               Single Source Selection               1.5

5. Miscellaneous


                Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        US$52.5 millionequivalent
                           Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment:            Average
         Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:          One every 12 months
                                                                          (includes specialprocurementsupervisionfor
                                                                          post-review/audits)

__
'Thrcsholds
     ~~~
\            generally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement" andcontactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     - 65 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
         BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
The assessment was camed on in October 2002, in accordance with OPBP 10.02 and the Guidelines for
Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects, dated June 2001.
The objectives o f the assessment were to determine if GOP has the capacity to: i)properly manage and
account for all project proceeds, costs and transactions, and ii)to produce timely, accurate and reliable
financial statements for general and Bank special purposes. Progress in the implementation o f the action
planwas subsequently checked inFebruaryand September 2003.

ProjectRiskanalysis
A detailed riskassessment questionnaire has beenfilled in. No major risks were identified. Inparticular,
the overall risk related to the financial administration o fthe project at GAP's level is considered moderate,
and no control procedures are required in addition to those existing or to be set up as part o f the
implementation o f the action plan. The financial management assessment conclusion is that, provided the
proposed Action Plan is implemented (see below), the financial management arrangements would satisfy
the Bank's minimum financial management requirements and will be able to provide with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the project as required by the Bank.
Disbursements will initially be carried out on the basis o f SOEs (as was the case under the previous
project), but as the project accounting system will able to produce financial monitoring reports in FMR
format, the Borrower will have, during project implementation, the option on opting to disburse on a
periodic reportingmethodology.

Strengthsandweaknesses
DAEandGAPfinancial staffhave wide experienceandgoodprofessional background. Aside from having
been responsible for the financial management of the previous Bank project, they are responsible for the
financial management o f about 20 Convenios signed with Municipalities for the development o f local
infrastructure, and financial control o f two major programs, including i)special development program -
PED, which is being implemented with Funds from the payment o f the Federal Government debt with the
State and ii)rural electrification program     -  PERTINS, which is financed by the Japanese Bank for
Intemational Cooperation. Another strength is the comprehensive and even somewhat excessive internal
control and audit procedures that the Tocantins State exercises over all its transactions before a payment is
done.

The main weakness initially identifiedwas relatedto the fact that the accounting system for the project was
not yet completed by the time the financial management assessment was carried out. However, the system
i s now operating, extracting data directly from other systems currently inplace within DAE (including the
accounting system used under the previous Bank project), and from SEFAZ accounting system (SIAFEM),
to ensure that all project transactions are dully recorded, and that the Financial Reports      - FMR can be
produced ina timely andaccurate fashion.

GAP'sresponsibilitiesinterms of financialmanagement
GAP's main financial management responsibilities include: (i)       preparation and updating o f the project's
implementation plan and investments; (ii)    coordination of disbursements; (iii)  preparation and submission
to the Bank o f project reports, including expense accounts for all procurement o f works, goods andservices
under the project, and preparation of project management monitoring reports; and (iv) contracting and



                                                      - 66 -

monitoring the work o f the project's extemal audit. To cany on its responsibilities, GAP will have the
support o f the State administration, especially from the Finance Secretariat (SEFAZ -TO) which will
handle the payments, SEPLAN which is responsible for the overall supervision o f the budgeting and
planning process of the State, and SEINF which will also provide administrative support through the
Finance and Administration Direction (DIAFI) for office administration and supplies, personnel,
transportation, mail, etc.

Action Plan
Action                                                                                DueDate
Form and hire the Financial Management Team                                           April 2003 (actual)
Develop the new accounting system                                                     February 2003
                                                                                      (actual)
PrepareFMRsmodels as per agreed format                                                February 2003 (actual)
Develop program to extract data from SIAFEM to download data in the accounting August, 2003 (actual)
system
Discuss with the Bank the criteria for measuring physical progress and                May 2003 (actual)
respectiveFMRmodel
Prepare draft o f the Financial Manual for Bank's review                              September, 2003 (actual)
Final version of Financial Manual                                                     December, 2003
Prepare Extemal Audit TOR draft and a short list o f three to six potential           September, 2003 (actual)
auditors for Bank's review


2. Audit Arrangements
InternalAudit
First,all procurement andpayment processesare reviewed ineach Secretariatundertaking such processes.
This review is performed by an Internal Audit Department in each Secretariat. Secondly, each Secretariat
has a permanent Inspector o f the Court o f Accounts who checks and reviews in detail all documentation
andlegal aspects of eachpayment. Third, SEFAZ makes a final review before an actual payment is made.
Inaddition, the state attorney (Procuradoria Geral do Estado) reviews all processes to ascertain that all
legalrequirementshave been compliedwith.

Extemalaudit
External auditors will be contracted under the project under a multi-year contract. The Terms o f Reference
for the contract have been prepared on the basis o fthe "Guidelines and Terms o f Reference for auditing of
Projects financed by World Bank in Latin America and Caribbean Countries", and the short-list has been
approved by the Bank.



Audit Report                                           DueDate
Project accounts                                       Upto six months after closing offiscal year
SOE                                                    Upto six months after closing offiscal year
Special Account                                        Upto six months after closing of fiscal year
Compliance with Legal covenants                        Upto six months after closing of fiscal year
Management Letter                                      Upto six months after closing offiscal year

3. DisbursementArrangements
The Borrower will use transaction-based disbursements, to be made according to the Disbursement Letter
instructions to be released by the Bank`s Disbursement Department following compliance o f all


                                                      - 67 -

effectiveness conditions. SEPLAN will designate the personnel authorized to sign the applications. The
withdrawals from the special account will be approved and signed by the Secretary o f SEFAZ and the
Executive Sub-Secretary. The relevant signature specimens will be sent to the Disbursement Department in
due course. Despite the fact that the system to be implemented will have the capability to produce FMRs,
the project does not intend to disburse on basis o f reports, at least not at the beginning o f project
implementation.

Reportingand monitoring
The project will report in the format o f FMR Financial Statements on a semestrial basis. The reports will
be generateddirectly from the project accounting system. The year-end FMRs will be submittedfor review
to the project's external auditors.
 Allocationof loan proceeds(Table C)
The Loan i s expected to be disbursed over a period o f five years. Retroactive financing will be
allowed up to US$700,000 for eligible expenditures incurredwithin one year before the date o fthe
signingofthe loanagreement for the project.
                                   Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
I(1)Works  ExpenditureCategory              1Amount     in US$million   1         FinancingPercentage
                                                        24.65                              60%
(a) Upgrading onmainmunicipal road
networks
(b) Uwradingof state feeder roads                        7.49                              50%
(c) Maintenance o f state network through                2.14                              50%
pilot contracts
(d) Establishmentofenvironmentally                       0.19                              85%
protected areas
(2) Goods                                                2.33             100%o f foreign expenditures; 100%o f
(a) Office equipment,cars, and IT                                        local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
hardware and software                                                    85% o f local expenditures for other items
                                                                                     procuredlocally
(3) Services                                             1.24                              60%




(b) Engineering and Supervision for                      0.71                              50%
Upgrading Works and Pilot Maintenance
Contracts on state roadnetwork
(c) Technical assistance                                 4.30                              84%
(d) Zoning andenvironmental surveys                      7.30                              84%
(4) Training                                             2.15                              84%
(5) Unallocated                                          6.90

Total Project Costs with Bank                           59.40
Financing
                               Front-endfee              0.60

Total                                                   60.00



                                                   - 68 -

 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):
The Bankmay require withdrawals from the LoanAccount to be made on the basis o f SOEs for expenditures under
contracts for: (i)goods costing less than US$500,000 equivalent; (ii) costing less than US$lO,OOO,OOO
                                                                                works
equivalent; (iii)services o f consulting firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent; and (iv) services o f individual
consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; all under such tems andconditions as the Bank shall specify to
the Borrower. All other expenditures will be fully documented when submitted to the Bank. All documentation
relevant to SOEs will be available at the UGP for review by Bank missions and auditors.

 Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US$ in Banco do B r a d - New York office. An initial authorized
Special Account allocation of US$2 million will be established. An authorized allocation o f the Special Account
will be US$5 million once the aggregate disbursements of the loan total US$15 million or more. The minimum
amount o f each application should be 20% o f the authorized allocation. Two operational accounts in R$ will be
opened in Banco do Brasil - Palmas office: one to receive the Bank's funds transferred from the Special Account,
and other to receive counterpart funds directly from the State single Treasury Account. Therefore there will be no
minglingo f Bank's funds with counterpart funds. According to the project needs andon basis o f payment due to
suppliers, contractors, consultants and other costs, GAP will withdraw from the Special account the exact amount
requiredto meet these payments andtransfer to the operational account. At this point it is important to note, that for
apayment become due according to the State Financial Management arrangementsinplace, the relevant cost or fee
i s already committed in the SIAFEM and therefore the cost has already been incurred. At the same time - in a
"pari passu" fashion, the State Treasury will deposit inthe second operational account the equivalent counterpart
amounts. The actual payments through Banking transfer Orders (OB) - "Ordens Banchrias" will be processed
through SIAFEM. In a period not to exceed 30 days GAP will prepare the relevant SOEs and document the
expenditures to the Bank to replenish the Special Account. It is worth to note that the financial execution o f this
Project is totally centralized, i.e. there will not be any funds transfer to other decentralized executing agencies.




                                                       - 69 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
       BRAZIL:TOCANTINSSUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


Project Schedule                                          Planned                     Actual
]Timetaken to preparethe project (months)     I        15                    I       23           I
[First Bank mission (identification)          I        10/15/2001            I       11/19/2001   I
Appraisal mission departure                            0911512002                    11/04/2002
Negotiations                                           0411SI2003                    10/01/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          02/01/2004

Prepared by:
SEPLAN, SEINF incollaboration with the Bank


Preparation assistance:
None.

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:

                                       Transport Specialist, Team Leader
RodrigoArchondo-Calla0                 Highway Economic Specialist
Ademildes Dantas                       Operations Officer
Daniel Gross                           LeadAnthropologist
Eleoterio Codato                       FPSI Sector Leader for Brazil
Cristobal Ridao-Can0                   Poverty Specialist
Femando Blanco                         Economist
Claudio Mittelstaedt                   FMS
Christopher Diewald                    LeadOperations Officer
Flavio Chaves                          Operations Analyst
EfraimJimenez                          LeadProcurement Specialist
Zeze Weiss                             Civil Society Specialist
Christina Malmberg-Calvo               Lead Economist, Peer Reviewer
NormanHicks                            Sector Manager, Poverty Sector, Peer Reviewer
Jose August0 Carvalho                  LeadCounsel
Omowumni Ladipo                        Senior Finance Officer
Jacques Cellier                        Senior Transport Economist, Consultant
Jean-Claude Sallier                    Senior Highway Engineer, Consultant
Regis Cunningham                       Senior Finance Officer
SolangeVan Veldhuizen                  Language Program Assistant




                                               - 70 -

                            Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
      BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
   1. Plano de ImplementagSodo Projeto, GAP, March2003

   2. ProjectMonitoringLetter, Govemo do Tocantins, March2003

   3. Portarian. 604102, November2002, establishingthe GAP

   4. Portarian.002103, August 29,2003, establishingthe GOP

   5. Terms of Reference and questionnaires for the carrying out of the M&E baseline surveys in the
       region of the Sudeste

B. Bank Staff Assessments
   1. The fiscal performanceof the State of Tocantins, 1990-2002, February2003

   2. ProcurementAssessment, October2002

   3. Financial ManagementAssessment, October 2002

C. Other
   1. Project Preparation
       1. Relatbrio do Projeto, Govemo do Estadodo Tocantins, October 2002

   2. Resettlement
       1. Diretrizes ParaReassentamento Involunthrio, Estadodo Tocantins, October 2002

   3. Indigenous People Development Framework
       1. Diretrizes Bhsicas para o Desenvolvimento dos Povos Indigenas no h b i t o das Obras
           Rodoviarias,Estado do Tocantins, October 2002

   4. Environment
       1. Manual Operacionalda GestiioAmbiental do Setor Rodovihrio, DERTINS, November 1998

       2. EnvironmentalAssessment, Govemo do Estado do Tocantins, October 2002

   5. Operational Manual
       1. Manual Operacional para o Melhoramento das Redes Rodovihrias Municipais, DERTINS,
           March 2003

   6. Others
       1. PlanoPlurianual PPA, 2000-2003, Govemo do Estadodo Tocantins




                                               -71 -

        2. Atlas do Tocantins, Subsidios ao Planejamento da Gestlo Territorial, SEPLAN, 1999

        3. Resultados do Primeiro Forumde Planejamento Regional, SEPLAN, August 2000

        4. Diagn6sticos, Planos de Desenvolvimento, Agendas de Negocia$io,          Agendas Locais,
           Programa de Desenvolvimento Regional Sustenthveldo Sudeste, 2002

        5. Perfil Competitivo do Estado do Tocantins, SENAI, 2002

*Includingelectronicfiles




                                                - 72 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                                           24-Sep-2003
                                                                                                                    Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                             and actual
                                                                 OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO49265      2003 BR-RECIFE URBANUPGRADINGPROJECT              46.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   46.00         1.33      0.00
PO70827      2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIADEV. EDUCATIONPROJEC          60.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    60.00       0.00       0.00
PO54119      2003 BAHIADEVT(HEALTH)                            30.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    30.00        0.00      0.00
PO74777      2003 BR-MunicipalPensionTAL                        5.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00     5.00        1.17      0.00
PO76977      2003 BR-EnergySectorTA Project                    12.12      0.00                 0.00     0.00    12.12        0.42      0.00
PO78310      2003 BR-CAIXAWater                                75.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    75.00        1.33      0.00
PO80400      2003 BR-AIDS8 STD Control 111                    100.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   100.00        0.00      0.00
PO57665      2002 BR-FAMILYHEALTHEXTENSiONPROJECT              68.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   65.82        31.65      0.00
PO57653      2002 BR- FUNDESCOLAIllA                          160.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   176.34      -18.30      0.00
PO55954      2002 GOiAS STATE HIGHWAYMANAGEMENT                65.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    53.68       37.05      0.00
PO43869      2002 BR SANTA CATARINANATURALRESOURC8 P           62.80      0.00                 0.00     0.00   61.14         7.45      0.00
PO51696      2002 SA0 PAULOMETROLINE4 PROJECT                 209.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   206.91      97.34       0.00
PO74085      2002 BR SergipeRural PovertyReduction             20.80      0.00                 0.00     0.00    16.81       4.76       0.00
PO73192      2002 BR TA FinancialSector                        14.50      0.00                 0.00     0.00     9.30       -2.81      0.00
PO70552      2002 GEF BR PARANABIODIVERSITYPROJECT              0.00      0.00                 8.00     0.00     8.25        1.72      0.00
PO66170      2002 BR-RGN2ND RuralPovertyReduction              22.50      0.00                 0.00     0.00    21.03        4.26      0.00
PO60221      2002 FORTALEZAMETROPOLITANTRANSPORTPRO            85.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   111.47       31.68      0.00
PO50880      2001 BR PemambucoRuralPoverty Reduction           30.10      0.00                 0.00     0.00    24.37       11.47      0.00
PO50875      2001 BR Ceara RuralPovertyReductionProject        37.50      0.00                 0.00     0.00    24.27        7.77      0.00
PO50881      2001 BR PlAUl RURALPOVERTYREDUCTIONPROJ           2250       0.00                 0.00     0.00    15.85        6.01      0.00
PO57649      2001 BR Bahia RuralPovertyReductionProject        54.35      0.00                 0.00     0.00    34.27       10.46      0.00
PO59566      2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                    90.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    82.00       -8.00      0.00
PO73294     2001 BR Fiscal& Fin Mgmt TAL                        8.68      0.00                 0.00     0.00     7.23        5.34      0.00
PO50772     2001 BR LAND-BASEDPOVRTYALLEVIATIONI(S            202.10      0.00                 0.00     0.00   206.53      167.14      0.00
PO35741     2000 BR NATLENV 2                                  15.00      0.00                 0.00     2.32     7.16        8.57      6.85
PO62619     2000 BR INSS REFL IL                                5.05      0.00                 0.00     0.00     0.36       -0 14      0.67
PO39200     2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY(ELETROBRAS)                 43.40      0.00                 0.00     0.00    42.97       36.70      0.60
PO39199     2000 BR PROSANEAR2                                 30.30      0.00                 0.00     0.00    29.21       25.21      0.00
PO06449     2000 BR CEARAWTR MGTPROGERIRHSIM                  136.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    96.02       52.02      0.00
PO50776     2000 BR NE MicrofinanceDevelopment                 50.00      0 00                 0.00     0.00    33.11      -16.89      0.00
PO47309     2000 BR ENERGYEFFICIENCY(GEF)                       0.00      0.00                 15.00    0.00    14.67       12.65      4 66
PO58129      1999 BR EMER FIRE PREVENTION(ERL)                 15.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00     6.38        6.38       1.92
PO43874      1999 BR- DISEASESURVEILLANCE-VIGISUS             100.00      0.00                 0.00    25.00    25.71       50.71       0.00
PO48869      1999 BR SALVADORURBANTRANS                       150.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    94.23       90.90       0.00
PO50763      1999 BR- Fundescola2                             202.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    17.58        9.25       0.00
PO36895      1998 BR FEDWTR MGT                               198.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   108.25      108.25    108.25
PO38947      1998 BR- SC 8 TECH 3                             155.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   100.60      100.60       0.00
PO06559      1998 (BF-R)SPTSP                                  45.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00     4.70        4.70       0.00
PO51701      1998 BR MARANHAOR POVERTY                         80.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00     0.86        0.86       0.00
PO06474      1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0PAULO)                     55.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    50.08       44.28       0.67
PO43421      1998 BR RJ M TRANSIT PRJ                         186.00      0.00                 0.00    17.17   118.25      135.42       0.00
PO57910      1998 BR PENSIONREFORMLiL                           5.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00     2.50        2.50       1.70
PO43420     1998 BR WATER S MOD2                              150.00      0.00                 0.00    125.00   20.86      145.83      -0.11
PO35728     1998 BR BAHIAWTR RESOURCES                         51.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    16.62       16.62      -1.54
PO42565     1998 BR PARAIBAR POVERTY                           60.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    18.64       18.64       0.00
PO06532     1997 FED HWY DECENTR                              300.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00   135.65      135.65     67.64
PO06562     1997 BAHIA MUNDV                                  100.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    34 25       34.25     34.25
PO34578     1997 BR RGS Highway MGT                            70.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    47.99       47.99     47.99
PO43873     1997 BRAG TECH DEV                                 60.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    24.84       24.84     24.84
PO43868     1997 BR RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                      100.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    38.41       38.41     38.41
PO06210     1996 GEF BR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                     0.00       0.00                 10.00    0.00     2.32        3.24       3.86
PO06554     1996 BR- HEALTHSECTOR REFORM       - REFORSUS     300.00      0.00                 0.00    21.12    41.21       62.33       0.00
PO37828     1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                             175.00      0.00                 0.00     0.00    62.35       62.35     62.35




                                                               - 73 -

                                                                                                                       Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                and actual
                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY   Purpose                                     IBRD           IDA                     GEF  Cancel. Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO06436     1995 Ceara UrbanDevelopment8 Water Resource         140.00        0.00                  0.00    3.00    8.35       11.35      11.35
PO38882     1995 BR RECIFE M.TSP                                102.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00    9.23        9.23       0.00
PO06564     1995 BEL0 H M.TSP                                   99.00         0.00                  0.00    0.00   12.70       12.70       0.00

                                                      Total:  4658.90        0.00                33.00    193.61  2684.08    1696.89    414.34




                                                                 - 74 -

                                          BRAZIL
                                  STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                      June 30   - 2003
                                    InMillions US Dollars


                                                     Committed                     Disbursed
                                                    IFC                          IFC
FY Approval      Company                     Loan    Equity Quasi  Partic Loan    Equity  Quasi Partic
                                                                             ~~~
2001             AG Concession                0.00   15.00   15.00  0.00   0.00     4.29   0.00  0.00
1996197          Algar Telecom                0.00    8.17    0.00  0.00   0.00     8.17   0.00  0.00
2002             Amaggi                      30.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  30.00     0.00   0.00  0.00
2002             Andrade G. SA               40.00    0.00    0.00 20.00  22.50     0.00   0.00  15.00
2001             ApoIo                        8.00    0.00    0.00  0.00   5.50     0.00   0.00  0.00
1998             Arteb                       20.00    7.00   0.00  18.33  20.00     7.00   0.00  18.33
1999             AutoBAn                     27.60    0.00   0.00  23.72  27.60     0.00   0.00 23.72
1993194196       BACELL                       0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00
1998             BSC                          7.41    0.00   0.00   3.97   7.41     0.00   0.00  3.97
1993196          BUNGEICEVAL                  0.00    8.06    0.00  0.00   0.00     8.06   0.00  0.00
1990191192       BahiaSul                     0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00
1996103          BancoBradesco               10.00    0.00    0.00 60.00  10.00     0.00   0.00 60.00
1988103         Banco Itau                   25.00    0.00   0.00  175.00 25.00     0.00   0.00 175.00
1997            Bompreco                     10.42    0.00   5.00   0.00  10.42     0.00   5.00  0.00
0               Bradesco-Hering               7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50     0.00   0.00  0.00
0               Bradesco-Petrofl              7.50    0.00   0.00   0.00   7.50     0.00   0.00  0.00
1994196         CHAPECO                      17.85    0.00   0.00   5.26  17.85     0.00   0.00  5.26
2002            CN Odebrecht                 51.78    0.00  20.00  113.57 51.78     0.00  20.00 113.57
1973178183      CODEMIN                       0.00    0.40   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.40   0.00  0.00
2003            CPFL Energia                 40.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00
1992            CRP-Caderi                    0.00    0.5 1  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.5 1   0.00  0.00
1995            CambuhylMC                    1.88    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.88    0.00    0.00  0.00
                Copesul                       0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1997            Coteminas                     0.00    0.53   0.00   0.00   0.00     0.53   0.00  0.00
0197100         DENPASA                      0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1980192193      Distel Holding               0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1995196198102   Dixie Toga                   0.00    15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    15.00   0.00  0.00
1998            Duratex                       8.33    0.00   0.00  25.67   8.33    0.00    0.00 25.67
1987196197      Eliane                      25.60     0.00   13.00  0.00  25.60    0.00   13.00  0.00
1999            Empesca                      5.00     0.00   10.00  0.00   5.00    0.00   10.00  0.00
1998            Escola                       0.00     0.28   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.25    0.00  0.00
2001102         Fleury                        7.71    0.00   6.00   0.00   7.71    0.00    6.00  0.00
2000            Fosfertil                     7.58    0.00   0.00  35.34   7.58    0.00    0.00 35.34
1998            Fras-le                      8.00     0.00  10.00   0.00   8.00    0.00    6.70  0.00
1998            GAVEA                        3.75     0.00   5.50   0.00   3.75    0.00    5.50  0.00
I994            GP Cptl Rstrctd              0.00     9.67   0.00   0.00   0.00    9.48    0.00  0.00
0               GPC                          9.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   9.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
2001            Guilman-Amorim               0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1997198         IcatuEquity                  0.00    19.60   0.00   0.00   0.00    12.48   0.00  0.00
1998            InnovaSA                     16.25    5.00   0.00  45.00  16.25    5.00    0.00 45.00
1999            Ipiranga                     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
                Itaberaba                    0.00     5.34   0.00   0.00   0.00    5.34    0.00  0.00
1980187197      Itau-BBA                    40.00     0.00   0.00   0.00  20.00    0.00    0.00  0.00
1999            JOSAPAR                      7.57     0.00   7.00   0.00   2.57    0.00    7.00  0.00

0100102
1999




                                           - 75 -

                      Total Portfolio:    814.07   145.67    142.33 945.49 647.47 111.01 124.03 910.49



                                               Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval    Company                        Loan     Equity      Quasi  Partic
2003           Amazonas Water                  0.02      0.00      0.00    0.00
2002           Andrade                         0.00      0.00      0.00    0.10
2000           BBA                             0.01      0.00      0.00    0.00
2002           Banco Itau-BBA                  0.00      0.00      0.00    0.10
2001           Brazil CGFund                   0.00      0.00      0.02    0.00
1999           Cibrasec                        0.00      0.00      0.01    0.00
2003           Duratex IV                      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.01
2002           Macae                           0.00      0.00      0.00    0.28
2002           Net Servicos 2                  0.05      0.00      0.00    0.00
2004          QGP Swap                         0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00
2002           Suape ICT                       0.01      0.00      0.00    0.00
2004          TermoFortaleza                   0.06      0.0 1     0.00    0.1 1
2002          Unibanco-CL                      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.15

              Total PendingCommitment:         0.14      0.01      0.03    0.74




                                         - 76 -

                                              Annex IO: Country at a Glance
          BRAZIL: TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLEREGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

POVERTYand SOCIAL
                                                        Brazil 8Carib. income    Developmentdiamond*
2002                                                                                                                        I
                                                        174.5     527    2,411                Lifeexpectancy
                                                        2,830    3,280   1,390
GNi (Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                         4945     1,727   3,352
Average annualgrowth,1996-02                                                                        T
Population I%)                                            1 3      1.5     1 0
Laborforce (%)                                            1 7      22      1.2   GNI                                 Gross

Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1996-02)                             per                                primary
                                                                                 capita                            nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownafiona/povertyline)            22                                                               I
Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                       82      76      49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                           69       71      69
infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                      30      27      30
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                       6        9      11        Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulahon)          87       86      81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                         12      11
         rimaryenrollment (% of school-aqepopulation)     162     130              -Brazil
                                                          166     131      111            Lower-middle-incomegroup
         le                                               159     128      110

     Y ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982   1992    2001    2002     Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                2817  3906     509.0   4524
GrossdomesttcinvestmentlGDP                        21 1  18.9    212      19.3
Exportsof goods andservceslGDP                      7 6  10.9    13.2     1                       Trade

Grossdomesticsavin                                 204   21.4    20.2     2
Gross nationalsaving                               153   20.1    16.6     18.0                      T
CurrentaccountbalancdGDP                           -5 8   1 6     -46     -1.7   Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                                34    0.7      3 0     3.0   savings                       Investment
TotaldebtlGDP                                      33 3  33.0    483      51 3
Total debt servce/exwrts                           819   21.1    76.4     70.2
Presentvalue of deMlGDP                                          52.6     58.4
Presentvalue of debtlexwrts                                 .I   3342                          Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02     2001    2002  2002-06
laverwe annualafowth)
1       .                                                                           -Brazil
GDP                                       2 6       2.7   1.4      1.5     3.4
GDP per capita                            0.7       1.4   0 1      0 2     2 2       -Lower-middle-incomegroup

STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1982   1992    2001    2002    Growthof investmentand GDP ( O h )
     of GDPJ
Agriculture                                         9.0   7.7      6.1             T
                                                                          21.o
                                                                           6.1
Industry                                          45.6   38.7    22.3
   Manufacturing                                   34.6  24.7    14.0     13.2
Services                                          45.4   53.6    71.6     72.9

Privateconsumption                                 69.6  61.5    60.6     59.3
Generalgovernment consumption                      10.0  17.1    19.2     19.3             -nni          d n n o
Importsof goodsand services                        8.3    8.4    14.2     13.6

                                              1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002
(average annualgfow?b)                                                           Growth of exportsand imports("A)           1
Agriculture                                        2.5    3.5      5.7     5.8   20

Industry                                           1.6    2.3     -0.7     1.5   10
   Manufacturing                                   0.5    1.8      1.4     1.4
Services                                           3.2    2.8      1.9     1.5   0


Privateconsumption                                 0.7    3.9      0.8     0.4  -10

Generalgovernment consumption                      7.1    0.9      1.0     1.o  -20
Grossdomesticinvestment                            4.1    2.1     -1.1    -5.2
Importsof goodsand Services                        3.9    7.6      1.2   .12.8




                                                              - 77 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1982    1992   2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                            Inflation(%)

(% change)                                                                                                              i
Consumer prices                            100.5   951.6     7.7     7.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                       104.8   968.5     7.5     8.5

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                             22.7    24.1            97    98     99      w     01      0
Current budget balance                                       3.0     3.1
Overallsurplus/deficit                                       3.8                   -GDP      deflator   '-0-CPI


                                                                                                                        c
TRADE
                                            1982   1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Exportand importlevels(US$mill.)
Totalexports(fob)                                 35,793  58,223  60,362
  Coffee                                           2,534   2,932   3,049
  Soybeans                                         2,696   2,726   2,199
  Manufactures                                    23,787  32,901  33,001
Total imports(ciD                                 20,554  55,572  47,219                           ~-1
  Food                                               850   1,169   1,085
  Fuelandenergy                                    3,069   6,276   6,281
 Capitalgoods                                      6,335  14,808  11,593
Export priceindex (1995=100)                  73      92      94      95       .I' $a '97 ' 98 '

Import priceindex (1995=100l                  65      63     114     115                   Exports         Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                     112     147      82      82

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           I982    1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Currentaccount balanceto GDP (x)             I
Exportsof goods and services              21,967  38,999  67,545  69,968
Importsof goods and services              24,761 25,717   72,653  61,863
Resourcebalance                           -2,794  13,282  -5,108   8,105
Net income                               -13,510  -9,382 -19,743 -18,191
Net currenttransfers                           2   2,243   1,638   2,390
Currentaccount balance                   -16,302   6,143 -23,213  -7,696
Financingitems(net)                       11,101   8,926  19,795  -3,570
Changesin net reserves                     5,201 -15,069   3,418  11,266

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)      3,994 23,754   35,866  37,823
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocal/US$)         6.52E-11 1.64E-3     2.4     2.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           I982    1992    2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                             Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebtoutstanding and disbursed        93,932 129,060 245,844 232,075
  IBRD                                     2,694   7,238   7,963   7,710                      A 7,710
  IDA                                          0       0       0       0             G 23,395

Total debtservice                         19,215   8,647  54,322 51,636
  IBRD                                      411    1,913   1,362   1,518
  IDA                                          0       0       0       0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                             24       38     81        0
  Officialcreditors                         966    -936   2,742     916
  Privatecreditors                         7,580   5,888  -1,781  -9,541
  Foreigndirect investment                 2,910  2,061   22,636       0
  Portfolioequity                             0    1,704  2,482        0           F 152,327
World Bank program
  Commitments                              1,090   1,344   1,624   1,276   4 IERD                         E -Bilateral
  Disbursements                             623      581   1,639   1,384   3 IDA
                                                                            --        D Othermultilateral
                                                                                       -                  F Private
                                                                                                            -
  Principalrepayments                       215    1,266    828    1,063   2 - IMF                        G - Short-term
  Net flows                                 408    -685     810     322
  Interestpayments                          196     647     533     456
  Nettransfers                              212   -1,332    277    -134

ueveioprrianr ccoiiurriics                                                                                        Y/J/U9




                                                        - 78 -

                         Additional Annex 11:Monitoringand Evaluation
       BRAZIL:TOCANTINS SUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

The objective o f the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) subcomponent o f the project is to serve as a basis
to: (i) strengthen the existing state capacity to track and analyze the evolution o f the socio-economic
situation at the local level; and (ii) gradually, develop a capacity for systematic monitoring and evaluation
o f public programs, starting with this project and the proposed TRF'RP. By incorporating monitoring and
evaluation early into the design o f projects, it will be possible to obtain results ina timely fashion so that
the findings can be usedto improve project operations, as necessary. To this end, ajoint mid-termreview
will be undertaken to determine the efficiency o f projects in reaching their objectives, and modifying, if
necessary, the design o f certain projects components andor targeting. The M&E subcomponent will
provide for:

    0    the undertaking o f surveys, which will collect the data needed to evaluate the specific impact o f
         rural transport improvements under the project and, more generally, to track the evolution of key
         socio-economic indicators. These data will complement the already existing database o f
         socio-economic indicators at the local level; and

    0    the provision o f technical assistance, training and equipment to strengthen the capacity o f
         SEPLAN's Research and Information Department (DPI, under the DPL), to collect, compute and
         analyze socio-economic indicators, and to develop a methodology for the undertaking o f M&E of
         specific public programs.

The above will help: (i) up government's ownership in the evaluation process; and (ii) the
                            build                                                                   ensure
sustainability o fthe institutional strengthening efforts within the DPI.

The methodology for the monitoring and evaluation o f the project has been developed on the basis o f the
methodology already prepared for the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects o f the Northeast, as well as best
practice elsewhere (e.g. impact evaluation o f the Bank-financed Vietnam Transport Project). The following
describesthis methodology more indetail.

1.Monitoring

A monitoring system will be developed to track progress in the implementation of project activities to
ensure that planned targets are met, to identi@ problems and accomplishments andto undertake or promote
appropriate actions to improve project implementation.

The GAP will be incharge o f basic project activities monitoring based on the project information provided
by the project management database, which will be operated andmaintained by the same unit, as well as
field visits and inputs from project supervision reports, project-contracted studies and audits. The project
database will be organized inthree general levels: (a) a subproject information module, whch will contain
pertinent physical information and financial information for each subproject; (b) a financial management
module, from which Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs) will be generated; (c) a project management
module, from which all project reports will be generated.




                                                      - 79 -

2. Evaluation

Evaluation studies will be designedand implemented to asses the performance o f the project interms o f the
stated objectives, and to provide appropriate feedback to improve project operations. In particular, these
studies will assess three inter-related dimensions o f the performance o f each project:

     1. targeting: whether project interventions actually reached its intended beneficiaries, i.e. the rural
         poor;

     2. institutional impact: whether the project increased institutional capacity and social capital at each
         jurisdictional level; and

     3. socioeconomic impact: whether the project improved living standards, and whether the investments
         realizedunder the municipal road improvement component o fthe project are indeedjustified.

The design and implementationo f evaluations and surveys will be undertakenby anevaluation team housed
inthe DPI. Inaddition, NATURATINS andDZEwill monitorproject impact onthe environment, andthe
DERTINS will be in charge o f ex-post evaluation o f investments under the m a l transport improvement
component of the project. The DERTINS will carry out these evaluations based on the producer-surplus
model developed during project preparation. This model will be gradually upgraded to take into account
additional relevant variables, to be chosen primarily from the impact indicators to be collected (see para.
2.3 below). Consistent with the projects' objectives, it is essential to take all the necessary actions to
guarantee sufficient capacity at the state level to implement future evaluations.

2.1. Targeting

Effective targeting o f the rural poor is crucial for the success o f the two projects. The poor are those who
would benefit the most from project interventions, so an intervention may seem to have failed because o f
the poor targeting of the poor rather than because the intervention itself was flawed. Hence, it is necessary
to assess whether the mechanisms used by the two projects to allocate resources actually served to reach
the poor. Under the project, resources will be allocated to regions and municipality according to poverty
and economic potential considerations, and investment decisions will be made at the regional or municipal
levels, depending on the type of project. Under the proposed TRPRP, resources would be allocated to
municipal foras based on a relative poverty ranking, while municipal councils will be responsible for
community targetingbasedon poverty rankings. However, consistent with the demand-driven nature o f the
program, actual projects are proposed andimplemented by communities.

2.2. Institutional Evaluation

The two projects make use o f decentralized and participatory delivery mechanisms in order to achieve to
inter-related goals: (i)increasethe effectiveness and sustainability o f project interventions; and (ii)
                                                                                                       increase
social capital and governance at eachjurisdictional level. The institutional analysis will assess how the two
projects serve to enhance social capital inbeneficiary communities, municipalities and regions (e.g. number
o f community associations, municipal foras and regional councils formed, their activities and degree o f
participation). It will also examine the performance and capacity o f community associations, municipal
fora, regional councils and technical units at the State level (e.g. Secretariat o f Panning). The methodology
for institutional evaluation will follow closely that developed for the Northeast Rural Development
Programs.


                                                      - 80 -

2.3. SocioeconomicImpact Evaluation

Impact Indicators. The first step in designing the framework for socioeconomic impact evaluation i s to
operationalize its objective interms o f measurable impact indicators. To this extent, a few points are worth
mentioning. First, all road infrastructures and many community projects have the potential to improve
living standards but only indirectly. For example, the potential impact o f road infrastructures consists o f
direct effects (e.g. improved access to work, markets and services such as schools and hospitals) and
indirect effects (e.g. increasesinincome and other dimensions o f well-being such as health and education),
where the ratio o f direct to indirect effects is smaller the larger the area o f influence o f the road. Impact
evaluation should also look at these intermediate indicators o f well-being, since they will provide prompt
information on project impact and key information on the channels through which road investments affect
well-being. However, the extent to which the direct impacts o f investments get translated into welfae gains
will depend onthe availability ofother basic services, such as schools andhospitals. Thus, it will important
to analyze how the impact o f the project interacts with the availability o f these other services.

Unit of Analysis. The second step indesigning the framework for impact evaluation is to identifythe unit
o f analysis (Le. the zone o f influence). Ideally, the unit o f analysis should be specific to each type o f
project. This can be determined, for example, by the administrative unit over which the project is expected
to have the most direct impact, i.e. the community for all community projects and roads linking
communities to municipal centers, and municipalities for roads linking municipal centers with each other
and with the State's main highway network. However, impact evaluations must take into account the
possibility o f spillovers outside the definedzone o f influence o f a project. This is particularly so inthe case
o f roads to the main highway network, whose effects extend beyond the municipalities through which they
pass and benefit the entire region. Having defined the main unit o f analysis for each type o f project, it may
be worth considering sub-units (e.g. households) as well as disaggregations o f units andor sub-units by, for
example, income levels and gender. This would allow an examination o f the distribution o f project gains
(e.g. are the poorest those who benefit the most from the project?).

Methodology. Quantitative methods for impact evaluation are better suited for assessing causality in (1)
than qualitative methods, but the latter allow the in-depth study o f selected issues, cases, or events and can
provide critical insights into beneficiaries' perspectives or the reasons behind results observed in the
quantitative analysis. Hence, quantitative and qualitative methods should be integrated. Most quantitative
methods focus on a single parameter o f interest, namely, the effect o f the project on project beneficiaries.
The key component o f this parameter is the counterfactual, that is, what would have happened had the
project in question never taken place. This is missing data, i.e. we cannot observe it, so it has to be
estimated. To estimate the counterfactual, it is necessaryto net out the effect o f the interventions from other
factors and events that are correlated with the outcomes o f interest but are not caused by the project. This
is accomplished through the use o f a comparison group (those who do not benefit from the project in
question), which is subsequently compared with the treatment group (i.e. those who benefit from the
project). Ideally, the comparison and treatment groups should only differ in project participation status.
Methodologies for impact evaluation differ inhow the comparison group is constructed. Indetermining the
methodor methods to be used, the following points must be taken into consideration:




                                                    -81 -

     1. projects are not randomly placed but targeted geographically to regions, municipalities and
         communities, and it is very likely that the geographic characteristics that determine project
         placement will also affect outcomes. Hence, inorder to get an unbiased e'stimate o f the impact o f a
         project, it is necessaryto apply statistical controls to address the differences between the treatment
         and comparison groups interms of the pre-project characteristics that jointly influence outcomes
         (levels andchanges) and project placement;

     2. apart from the above characteristics, there may be other factors and interventions that affect
         outcomes (levels and changes). It is necessary to control for those and learn from their possible
         interactionwith the project;

     3. there is a multiplicity o f project types interms o f the jurisdictional levels in which they intervene.
         Evenifthe unit o f analysis for evaluating the impact o f each project type is chosen to be the unit
         directly intervened by the project, we need to control for and leam from the interaction of projects
         at different levels. Inthe case of community projects this multiplicity of types is not determined by
         the level o f intervention but by the nature o f the investment (e.g. water, electricity, productive and
         social);

    4. the impact evaluation o f certain types o f infrastructure investments (e.g. roads) will also need to
         allow for the heterogeneity in the initial condition o f these infrastructures, as well as in their
         post-intervention situation. The already mentionedproject database will contain this information.

    5. all areas included inthe four target regions are eligible for project interventions. However, because
         o f the way resources are targeted to each geographical unit and the demand-driven nature o f
         community projects, some areas will benefit from project interventions while some others will not
         (at least directly). This will allow us to have comparison groups within the eligible population and
         from a similar economic environment as the treatment groups. However, it is not possible to know
         a priory (Le. before investment decisions are made) which areas will benefit from each project and
         which areas will not. Finally, in comparing the outcomes o f treatment and comparison groups for
         the purpose o f evaluating a specific intervention, it is important to account for possible
         extemalities.

Given the above considerations and "best practices" from similar projects, the preferredmethod is that o f
double differences, which entails comparing the treatment and comparison groups both before and after the
intervention. This method can either be combined with propensity score matching (whereby each project
beneficiary is matched to a similar non-beneficiary in terms o f observable pre-project characteristics) or
regression techniques (to control for differences in initial conditions and changes in exogenous variables,
allowing for interactioneffects with the project).

Baseline and Follow-up Surveys. The double difference approach outlined above will require baseline (i.e.
pre-project) and follow-up (post-project) data on impact indicators and controls. This entails collecting data
at the regional, municipal, community and household levels. In doing so, however, it is crucial to exploit
andmaximize the use o f sources of data already available (such as data compiled by the Instituto Brasileiro
de Geografia e Estatistica (IBGE), Universidade de Sao Paulo (SIFRECA system to monitor transport
prices o f agriculturalproducts), through the P NAD...), and make, in as much as possible, use o f the impact
assessment indicators already compiled by the DPI, including the Indice de Desenvolvimento Humano
Municipal (IDH-M), indice de Desenvolvimento Social (IDS), hdice de Oferta de ServiGos (IOS), indice
de Infra-estrutura Econdmica (WE) and indice de Arrecadaqiio Municipal (IAM). The baseline survey


                                                      - 82 -

should be completed at the beginning o f project implementation, before project activities are underway, as
the state will needresources from the project to collect the data. As mentioned earlier, at the time the data is
collected for the baseline survey, the identity o f project beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries will not be
known. Thus, the samples will be designed in such a way so as guarantee that there will be a sufficiently
large number of beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries for each type of project. Finally, as the welfare gains
fiom project interventions may take a long time to be realized, a decision will be made on the timefiame for
follow-up surveys.




                                                    - 83 -

                   AdditionalAnnex 12: State Assistance Strategy
  BRAZIL:TOCANTINSSUSTAINABLE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


A. Introduction

1. The state of Tocantins was createdunder the 1988 constitution, by separating the northem part of
   the state o f Goihs. It was incorporated into Brazil's northemregion; it is part o f the so-called Legal
   Ammonia. It is actually a zone o f transition between the highplains o f the Center-West cerrudos
   to the south and the humidplains o f eastemAmazonia to the northeast. The physical aspects o f the
   state are characterized by two major rivers, the Araguaia, which flows along the state's westem
   borders with Mato Grosso and Para, and the Tocantins. The climate is tropical, hot and humid,
   with a dry season from June to October. Most of the state's territory is covered with savannah
   (cerrudo); small areas o f tropical rain forest remain along the Araguaia river, and areas o f
   semi-decidual forests remain inthe North and the Southeast.

2. The state is sparsely populated with a population o f 1.2 million over an area o f 290,000 km2
   (about the size o f the United Kingdom). In terms o f number o f poor people relatively to total
   population, the state is the seventh poorest state in Brazil. 56% o f the population is living under
   the poverty line (defined as monthly income below US$26), and 25% ofthe populationlivingunder
   the extreme poverty line, with lessthanhalfo fthis income.

3. The main economic activity has beenextensive cattle farming together with subsistence agriculture.
   Recently, however, commercial agriculture has developed in the central and southwestem regions.
   With its vast areas o f farmable land, abundant water resources, and a favorable climate, the state
   has good natural conditions for sustainable agriculture.      While the state's economy has been
   growing rapidly since its creation, the state's GDP per capita (R$2,110 in2000) remains far below
   a national average o f R$6,473 (in 2000), and the contribution o f the state's GDP to the national
   GDP remains marginal, at 0.22%. With a GDP o f R$2.4 billion in 2000, the state has the fourth
   smallest economy o f all Brazilianstates.

4. The fiscal situation o f the state is sound and, when compared to all other states inBrazil, it looks
   very comfortable. The state administration has consistently generated a primary surplus. Tax
   revenueshave more than doubled from 1996 to 2001. The state has reduced its wage billto 34% o f
   net revenues, well below the maximum 60% specified by the Fiscal Responsibility Law. As a
   consequence, the state has managed to increase its investments from its own resources while
   containing its borrowings. The total consolidated net debt (a little over R$500 million) represents
   less than 40% o f the state's net revenues including federal transfers (about R$1.4 billion in2002),
   andit is serviced andpaidnormally.

B. HumanDevelopmentProfde

5. Average income per capita was estimated at about R$158 per month in 1999, one o f the lowest in
   Brazil, and 40% lower than the national average o f R$266. Interms of number o f poor relatively
   to the overall population, the state o f Tocantins is the 7th poorest state (see graph below), with
   56% o fthe population living under the poverty line (defined as the population with monthly income
   level below R$99.6), and 25% living under the extreme poverty line (defined as the population with
  monthlv income level below Rs49.8). These ratios are about 70% higher than national averages.



                                               - 84 -

   Average income of the poor people inthe state i s about R$53per month, which is relatively close
   to the national average. With a Gini coefficient o f 0.56, Tocantins is one o f the most equal state in
   Brazil. Poverty is worst inrural areas, inwhich over 68% ofthe population live under the poverty
   line.


                                  Poverty Ratio for Brazil, Tocantins
                                           and Selected States


        ' 7000%
         60 00%
          50 00%
          40 00%
          3000%
        ~


         20 00%
        I 10 00%
           00090




               Source: Tocantins Poverty Profile


6. The state's 2000 municipal human development index (IDH-M)is estimated at 0.72, below Brazil
   average (0.76). This composite index (basically, the United Nations HumanDevelopment Index
   computed at the municipal level) combines various socioeconomic indices which reflect education,
   access to health, water and other basic infrastructure services. There are also significant regional
   disparities: the IDH-Mo f the state's eastem region (see map and part D below) is lower, and has
   improved more slowly, than in the state's westem region. As such, the Government strategy aims
   at continuing reducingpoverty andsocial inequity, with a differentiatedregional focus.




                     1970               l!%O           15191           am0




                                                 - 85 -

   7. Basic education and health indicators o f the state's population have considerably improved since
       the 1991 Census, at rates usually above those observed nationally andinthe northernand northeast
       regions. The level o f qualification o f the economically active population remains low with, for
       example, illiteracy still above the levels observed in the North and Northeast. However, it is
       expected that this situation will improve gradually. Inparticular, half o f the state's population is
       under 25 years o f age, school enrollment rate is close to 70% (up 30% relatively to 1992),
       education coverage and attendance indicators have been continuously improving, and numerous
       professional training programs are being implemented.         Basic health indicators o f the state's
       population are above those observed in the Northeast, and in line with those o f the North.
       However, despite the above improvements, education and health indicators are still below (and in
       some cases well below) national average. As a result, the Government strategy is to pursue efforts
       to increase access to and quality o f education and health services, in order to ensure continued
       growth o fhumancapital, a necessarycondition to long-term and sustaineddevelopment.

                  Infant      % Infants      Life    Fecundity %ofeconomically Number of        Numberof
                 Mortality    bom with    expectancy   rate     active persons with inhabitants   medical
                   (%)        less than                             health plan        per     employments
                                3 kg                                 coverage         health     per 1,000
                                                                                      facility  inhabitants
Brazil             34.6         29.3         68.4      2.3             25.7            2,950        2.5
North Region       34.1           25         68.2      3.1             19.9            2,660        1.1
Northeast           53           26          65.5      2.6             12.9            2,890        1.7
Region
Tocantins           33           25          68.1        3              11             2,570        1.3

                      Illiteracy (%, aged >15)       Average education            Number ofinhabitants per
                                                      (years, aged >IO)        fundamental educational family
                       Urban           Rural        Male           Female          Urban          Rural
Brazil                    9.7           29           5.6             5.9             630           280
North Region             11.6          n.a.          5.6             5.9             330           190
Northeast Region         19.1           41            4              4.7             345           230
Tocantins                16.9           29           4.3             5.1             355           180



C.     Economic Development

   8. The state o f Tocantins has come up a long way since its creation in 1989. Having grown at about
       10% from 1990 to 1993 and 25% from 1994 to 2000, the state`s GDP per capita, from being the
       lowest in 1990, is now higher than those o f the states o f MaranhGo and Piaui (at R$2,110 in2000).
       Most o f this increase is due to superior GDP growth, especially over the 1994-2000 period, where
       the state has had the fifth fastest growing economy in Brazil. However, the state`s GDP per capita
       remains far below a national average o f R$6,473 in 2000, and the contribution o f the state's GDP
       to the national GDP remains marginal, at 0.22%.

  9. In 1998, the contribution to the GDP o f the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors were
       respectively 16.5% (of which over 83% is generated by meat production, especially from beef),
       14.2% and 69.3% (of which roughly half is generated by public administration activities). The
       state's economy has the third largest primary sector contribution to a state's GDP, and fourth
       largest public administration contribution. Since 1990, the contribution to GDP o f the primary



                                                   - 86 -

      sector decreased gradually from 20% to 16.5%, while the contribution o f public administration
      activities increased substantially from 25% to 37%, as the state has been building up its
      administrative capacity. The Tocantinese economy shares manycharacteristics with the economies
      of the states of the Northeast region, both in terms of volume, structure and decomposition of
      active population per segment of activity (see graphs and table below).


                                                                     1990          1995             1998
  Agriculture                                                       19.77         20.85             16.55
  Mining                                                             0.00          0.00             0.00
  Manufacturing                                                      4.85          6.02             6.94
  Electricity, Gas and water                                         0.64           0.6             0.41
  Construction                                                       0.09          0.09             0.09
  Commerce                                                          14.88         10.99             8.43
  Lodging and food service                                           3.83           3.1             2.53
  Transportation and storage                                         7.84           5.1             6.73
  Communications                                                     0.04          0.05             0.08
  Financial intermediation                                           4.58          2.97             2.74
  Real estate, rentals and services to businesses                   10.09          7.29             8.17
  Public administration                                             25.03         33.61            37.85
  Education and Health                                               5.07          5.77             6.17
  Other collective, social and personnel service                     2.74          2.97             2.76
  Domestic services                                                  0.57          0.57             0.54

  Agriculture                                                       19.77         20.85             16.55
  Industry                                                           13.4         11.83             14.18
  Services                                                          66.83         67.32             69.27
  Ofwhich Public Administration                                     25.03         33.61             37.85

   I               GDP per capita, 1998 (R$)                               Compositionof GDP (%, 1998)          I
      6,000                                                            100%
      5,000                                                            80%
      4,000                                                            60%
      3,000                                                            40%                           8Industry
      2,000                                                            20%
      1,000                                                             0%
   I      0
           Maranhao PiaUl Ceara Northeast Tocantins Nom    Brazil
                                 region            region




                                                            Tocantins           Norte        Nordeste   1      Brazil  I
Active population per segmentof activity                1992         1999       1999
Agriculture                                             43.9     II  34.5        13.2
Transformation Industry                                  6.1           3         8.9            6.7             11.6
Civil construction                                       7.6          7.2        6.4            5.9              6.6
Other industrial activities                              1            1.1        1.3             1               1.1
Commerce                                                 8.5         10.1        19.2          12.4             13.4
Services                                                27.2         33.3       40.6          28.1              36.6
Public Administration                                    5.3        551.ooo
                                                                      9.8        8.9             4               4.6
Total active uouulation                              417.000                  3.132.000    20.558.000        71.676.000
Source: ContasRegionais, IBGE, various years




                                                           - a7 -

   10. While the main economic activity remains extensive cattle farming together with subsistence
       agriculture, intensive agriculture has developed in the central and southwestem regions (see table
       below), and the number o f small enterprises has boomed, especially in the agro-processing, retail
       and repair services sectors. The state's extemal trade is at a nascent stage, with volumes among
       the lowest in Brazil, exportations being composed essentially by grain and meat production, and
       imports o f electronic equipment and various metal and vinyl semi-finished and finished products,
       for use inthe construction industry.


                                                 1990      2000      Variation        As part of Brazil's
                                                                                      2000 Production
          Rice (tons, 1,000)                      261      394         50%                 2.8%
          Com (tons, 1,000)                       70       1I 4        60%                 0.3%
          Soja (tons, 1,000)                      35       98          180%                0.2%
          Beefand Pork (herd size,
          1,000,000)                              4.4      6.2         40%                 3.0%



  11. Based on detailed analysis of the state's economic potential (including the preparation o f a
         state-wide agro-economical zoning), the state has established the following economic
         development objectives: (i)   takingadvantageo f the state's vast areas o f farmable land, abundant
         water resources and favorable climate, increase agricultural and meat production through the
         development o f an economically and environmentally sustainable agriculture where feasible and
         protection o f fragile ecosystems; (ii)expand the agro-industrial sector and promote exports; and
         (iii) tourismactivitiesasacomplementtoenvironmentalconservationprograms. The
              develop
         Government's strategy emphasizes the creation o f a business environment conducive to private
         sector investments in regions with proven potential for sustainable agriculture, cattle-fanning
         and/or tourism.     It involves the decentralization of the decision-making process for public
         investment, seeking to involve the key stakeholders and to build public-private partnerships in
         support o f regional and local priorities. However, a number o f key issues need to be addressed
         to ensure that the economic development potential o f the state can be achieved, including: (i)  the
         small size o f production units which reduces the potential for economy o f scales necessary to
         further develop intensive monocultures in the state; (ii) the lack o f agro-processing facilities in
         the state, which reduces the potential for adding value to raw material; (iii) insufficient
                                                                                              the
         qualification level o f producers, and low level o f access to technical advice; (iv) outdated
        technologies; (v) production or service standards still below, in some areas, national and
         international standards; (vi) the lack o f adequate infrastructure and resulting high value o f
         logistic costs for transport to and from the productive or touristic areas. It has been estimated,
         for example, that greater integration o f transport modes could result in a decrease o f logistic
        costs o f US$30 to US$35 per ton o f soybean transported from the state (Perfil Competitivo do
        Estado de Tocantins, SENAI, 2002); and (vii) lack o f industry organizations, with for example
        existing very few producers' associations.

Meat Industry
  12.   The meat industry is one o f Tocantins' major economic activities. I t generates about R$270
        million o f revenues per year, corresponding to 4.5% o f the state's income tax revenues. The
        industryhas been booming over the last 15 years, with herdsize growing over 50% since 1985,
        and meat production increasing 3.9% p.a. The industry is being slowly modernized with gradual
        introduction o f artificial insemination, stabulation practices, and development o f frigorific



                                                   - 88 -

         transport and storing services.       The state's comparative advantages include: (i)vast areas
         suitable for cattle farming; (ii) proximity to some o f the mainmarket and consumption centers in
         Brazil; and(iii) financial situationo fmost enterprises inthis industry.
                          good

Grain Productions
    13.  In 1999/2000 grains were cultivated on about 250,000 ha of land. The main grains harvested
         included soybeans (108,000 t), com (114,000 t) and rice (391,000 t). Production is shifting
         away from rice (givendifficulties to commercialize the grain at adequateprice), and focusing on
         soybeans and corn, crops which have been only recently introduced in the state.                 Cereal
         productivity is, on average, higher than the national average. Competitive advantages o f the
         state infurther developing intensive monocultures include: (i)    vast areas o f land identifiedby the
         state as suitable for such cultures; (ii)a very favorable climate, which permits, inter alia, to have
         a second, smaller harvest (the safrinha), on top o f the main annual harvest, andthus to increase
         productivity; and (iii)large availability o f water resourcesto permit irrigated cultures.
Fruits
    14.  Production o f tropical fruits is at a nascent stage inthe state. However, it is seen as an areawith
         great economic potential, given very favorable conditions, including sufficiently high
         temperatures with little variation, well defined rainy periods, adequate soils and highluminosity.
         Intum, the development oftropical fruits productionwillresult inhigher localemployment rates,
         given the fact that tropical fruit production is much more labor-intensive than other more
         traditional agricultural activities, such as, for example, cattle farming: while it is estimated that
         cattle farming requires one employee per 1,000 ha, tropical fruit production requires on average
         3 employees per ha. The star fruit o f Tocantins is the pineapple, with 28,000 tons produced in
         1998, followed by the orange (16,000 t) andthe watermelon (10,200 t). The growth potential o f
         this line o f business is huge, with fruits produced on only 10,000 ha in the state, while the
         Government estimates that about 700,000 ha o f land are suitable for this activity.

Tourism
    15. The tourism industry is at an initial stage o f development, with an infrastructure composed o f
       micro-enterprises (97% o f the total number o f enterprises), developed recently and primarily by
        local people, with low labor qualifications. The Government's strategy to support the industry is
       two-tiers: (i) the state's potential in ecotourism, given the variety o f scenery, fauna and
                      realize
       flora available inthe state. A number o f ecotouristic poles have already been installed, especially
       inthe areas ofthe Encontro dasAguas, Mkdio Araguaia, Lagos do Canta"o,Jalapa"0,andSerras
       do Tocantins; and (ii)    pursue an active marketing campaign to better position the state as a
       touristic destination both at the national and international levels.

EconomicInfrastructure
   16. The stock o f infrastructure has increased significantly since the beginning o f the 1990s. The
       length o f the paved road network in the state increased from 300 km (excluding the
       BelBm-Brasilia federal road), to 4,000 km. Gradual improvements are being made to the
       navigation on the Tocantins river and the construction o f the North-South railway is underway.
       Power generation capacity has increased from 23 mw in 1991 to 945 mw in 2002, to the point
       where the state, with the soon to be completed secondphaseo f the Lajeado hydropower plant, will
       be able to export up to 40% o f its production. The access o f households to piped water has
       increased from 31% in 1991 to 78 % in2000 while access to sewage networks has gone from no
       coverage to 2.7% . It is estimated that 41% o f households have a telephone line in (up from 4.5%
       in 1991) and that, inaddition, 16% ofhouseholds havea cellular telephone. However, the lack of
       access to economic infrastructure continues to severely hamper a more rapid development o f the


                                                    - a9 -

        economy, especially in those regions which have an economic potential yet to be tapped. With
        4,000 km of paved roads, and relatively to GDP per capita, the state still has one of the lowest
        density of paved roads in Brazil. Also, the municipal road networks are overwhelmingly inpoor
        condition, a major bottleneck to regional development. Only 76.5% o f households are presently
        connected to the power grid (up from 56.2% in 1993), although this situation is expected to
        improve with the implementation o f the state's rural electrification program, which should bring
        access to the power grid to an estimated 20,000 households, or 30% o f the households presently
        not connected. Inaddition, the Government has been concemed so far mostly with infrastructure
        development, given the very low infrastructure coverage at the beginning o f the 1990s. However,
        as the infrastructure stock grows, so does the need to design and implement sustainable operation
        and maintenance strategies, to reach a balance between financing O&M and further development.


Land tenure
   17. Inmany respects, land tenure inTocantins is different from that inthe other poor states o f Brazil
        (see table below): the state o f Tocantins has one o f the highest average farm size in Brazil, with
        373 ha per farm, only behindthe average farm sizes found in Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do
        Sul. Inaddition, the concentration o f farm ownership phenomenon observed in Brazil since 1970
        has not been significant in the state o f Tocantins, which still has the second lowest farm
        concentration index inBrazil. Finally, the state o f Tocantins occupies the seventh place interms
        o f agriculturalproperties exploited by landowners.


                                            > l oand < and <
                                                        > 100

                                   - < 10       100      200                 '2000 declared
                                                                             -
             Bico de Papagaio        14%       45%       8%                    1%       23%
             Nordeste                2%        33%      28%                   2%
             Jalapao                 3%        32%      23%                    3%
             Sudeste                 4%        37%      21%                    3%
             Tocantins               6%        39%      17%                    3%
             Maranhao                74%        16%      3`?h                  0%
             Ceara                   72%       22%       3%                    0%
             Piaui                   65%       27%       4%                    0%        1%
             Brazil                - 50%       39%       5%            2%    - 0%

                 Source: IBGE, Censo Agropecuario 1995-1996

   18. Agricultural properties occupy over 167,000 km2 o f land (or about 55% o f the state's total area).
       However, most o fthese areas are used for extensive, relatively low-income generating and
       low-labor intensive activities, with about 40% o f agricultural properties includingnatural or
       planted meadows for extensive cattle farming, 13% including forests and only 2% including cereal
       cultures. The rest o f the state's total area is covered by savannah and forest (22% o f the state's
       area), protected areas (20% of the state's area), rivers and lacs (2% o f the state's area) andby
       urban areas (less than 1%of the state's total area).

D.     Poverty and Economic Situation in The State's Eastern Zone

   19. The State's eastem zone, comprising the extreme north (Bico de Papagaio), Northeast, Jalapgo
       and Southeast regions, is recognized historically as part o f the "Corridor o f Misery", given its
       persistent poverty relative to the rest o f the state. The zone covers 50% of the state's area, and it


                                                     - 90 -

       is home to 33% o f the state's population, o f which 42% live inrural areas. Overall, 48 out o f the
       67 municipalities includedinthe eastem zone are among the least developed municipalities inthe
       state, interms o f levels o f economic and social infrastructure and services development, as well as
       income. Economic activities in the zone are mostly related to family agriculture and extractive
       activities, which constitute up to 75% o f the zone's GDP and contribute about 20% o f the state
       GDP (see table below).




                           Agriculture and         Industry             Commerce             Services
                              Livestock
  Bico de Papagaio                57                  1.7                   0.8                 40
  Jalaplo                        72                   0.8                   0.6                 27
  Nordeste                       75                   0.5                   0.8                 24
  Sudeste                        51                   4.9                  0.4                  43


 20.    The easternzone's agriculture contributes about 80% o f the states' soybean andbeanproduction,
        40% o f the milk and sugar cane production, 30% o f the state's beef and pork herds, and quasi
        100% o f the babaGu nut production (production localized in the Bico de Papagaio) (see table
        below).    However, while subsistence and traditional agricultural activities (manioc, rice) are
        widespread in the zone, production of most o f the high value items is concentrated in few
        municipalities, including soybean, com, fruits and beef, for which over 60% o f the zone's
        production is concentrated inrespectively 3, 13,6, and 12 o f the 67 municipalities composing the
        eastemzone.


                                 Rice          corn            Soybeans          Beans          Manioc
                              (4 1,000)       0, 1,000)        (4 1,000)       (t, 1,000)      0, 1,000)
Bico de Papagaio                  9              7                 0               0.7            30
Jalapao                           3               1                14             0.07             7
Sudeste                           14             13                13              0.4            13
Nordeste                          20             5                 62              0.1            16
Eastern Zone Production           46             26                89              1.2            66
% of State Production           10.5%           27%               85%             87%           36.5%

                              BeefHerd        Porc Herd          Babacu       Sugar cane         Milk
                             (Head, 1,000)  (Head, 1,000)      (t, 1,000)       (t, 1,000)      (1, lo6)
Bico de Papagaio                 420             27                2               0.8             19
Jalapao                           120             10                               0.5             4
Sudeste                          670             35                                 98             16
Nordeste                          165            20                                 1              6
Eastern Zone Production          1,375           92                2              100.3            45
% of State Production           26.6%          43.4%              95%            40.3%          42.4%



 21.    Although it might appear, a priori, that the eastem zone is relatively homogenous, a more
        detailed analysis reveals striking differences across regions. First, the zone includes areas o f
        tropical forest (in the Bico de Papagaio), desert (part o f Jalapso), and cerrado (in the remaining


                                                  -91 -

           o fthe zone). Second, land use potential studies undertaken as part o fthe preparation o f the state
           ago-ecological zoning, indicate that:

              i.theBicodePapagaioandtheSudestearesuitableforintensiveuse(includingproduction
                  o f fruits, cereals, and intensive cattle farming), which is typically generating more income;
                  and

             ii.theNortheastandJalap20regionsaresuitableforextensivecattlefarmingonthoseparts
                  of the regions not including fragile ecosystems (environmentally protected areas already
                  cover about one third o f the Jalap20 region, and about one-fifth o f the Northeast region
                  contains ecosystemswhich would potentially require protection), or areas protected for use
                  by the indigenous people (over one fifth of the northeast region is under such statute, for
                  use by the KrahB Indians). As such, efforts inthese two regions are directed at developing
                  alternative economic activities, including artisans andeco-tourism.

   22.    Third, the Bico de Papagaio and Sudeste regions are the two economically significant regions,
          containing 80% o f the zone's population (with the Bico de Papagaio containing 50% o f the
          zone's population, corresponding to a population density o f 11h a . W , far above an average o f
          below 2 for the other three regions), and generating about 80% o f the zone's primary sector
          GDP. Also, inthose regions, only about 35% o fthe population lives inrural areas, compared to
          50% inthe northeast and Jalap20 regions.

   23.    Fourth, interms of access to economic and social infrastructure, and income levels, the regions
          of the JalapHo andthe Northeast are lagging behindthe Bico de Papagaioandthe Sudeste regions
          (see selectedindicators intable below).


                                  3ico de Papagaio                             Nordeste   Fastern Zone -0cantin:
Population
as YOofthe EasternZone            I                    Jalapgo       Sudeste

                                                                      34           13         100         324
% ofrural population                     47
                                         34         1
                                               '          467         39          51           39          26
Area as `?hof the eastern                 14              18          46          22          100         265
zone
Income
Median Nominal Monthly
Earnings of Headsof
Households(R$)                           151              151         162         156         155         203
Average Nominal Eamings o f
Headsof Households(R$)                   310              319         339        324          322         520
Education
% of Headsof Householdswit1
less than 3 years of Education           62               67          63          63           63          49
Health
%of Householdswith access tc
piped water                              69               56          74          71           70          78
ource: LBGECLDADES@ Website

E.      Environment and NaturalResources Management

   24.    Most o f the state falls into the "Cerrado" (savanna) biome of central Brazil, which is generally



                                                       - 92 -

    suitable for cattle ranching and agriculture, but the latter usually only after heavy investments in
    soil correction and, in certain places, imgation, and only where land forms are suitable. Fruit
    production is also an altemative in the Cerrado. So far, the predominant land use has been
    ranching, and agriculture has developed only more recently (soybean, maize, rice, etc.) on about
    2% o fthe state's area. The northem region is at the transition to the Amazon biome, with denser
    rain forest, much o f which has already been cleared. It has somewhat better conditions for
    agriculture than the Cerrado sub-regions, particularly for cultivation o f perennial crops. Iihas
    beenthe focus of intense land conflicts and also o f landreform settlement efforts inthe past. It
    also provides income to many poor families as a source o f extractivist products, such as babassu
    nuts. The mainconcem is with degradation ofsoils from unsustainable production, alterationo f
    hydrological regimes and clearing o f remaining forests, including gallery forests. The thinly
    populated, sandy and dry Jalap20 region inthe central-eastem portion o f the state is recognized
    as fragile and having low potential for either ranchingor agriculture, andis likely to be used only
    for some h i t production, ecosystem protection and tourism. Recognizing the fragility o f the
    ecosystem, both the Federal and State Governments have established protected areas, including
    two areas of integral protection (the federal Estapio Ecolbgica Serra Geral do Tocantins,
    covering 716,000 ha and part o f the state Parque do Jalapa'o,covering 159,000 ha) and an area
    o f restricteduse (the state Area de ProteGiio Ambiental do Jalapa'o,englobing about 300,000 ha.
    o f the state Parque do Jalap5o). These areas (representing about 30% o f the Jalap50 region)
    include all areas identified to date as environmentally sensitive inthat region. The southeast o f
    the state shows a highly diverse mosaic o f land use. Soils have little fertility, but are suitable for
    ranching andsome limitedagriculture inshort rotations. Several small areas have beenproposed
    for ecosystemprotection. A mainconcem inthis region is soil erosion.

25. The agro-ecological zoning o f the state, which was prepared under the Bank-finance Second
    State Highway Management Project (Loan 3714-BR) and is being detailed inthe northernregion
    under the natural resourcespolicy project ("P)       i s an important instrument for the preparation
    o f the Government's regional development programs. It is among the best efforts to date among
    Brazilian States to survey, map and document the physical characteristics o f the various
    sub-regions. As a result, Tocantins has produced a remarkably clear vision o f future land use,
    albeit inbroad categories and at a small scale, including areas slated for some form o f ecosystem
    protection. Progress was made in preparing for the zoning implementation under the NRPP,
    including buildingup some environmental management capacity inpilot municipios inthe Bico
    do Papagaio and preparing the more detailed zoning of the region through a participatory
    process.

26. The Government's environmental strategy, which is based on the lessons leamed under the above
    pilot projects, is to effectively implement the zoning through a mix o f economic instruments,
    regulations, licensing, supervision andmonitoring activities. It particularly involves consolidating
    and expanding the state's environmental protection system, refining the agro-ecological zoning
    instruments, strengthening land use and water resource monitoring, rehabilitating andor
    preserving riparian forest, and consolidating existing and establishing new ecosystemprotection
    areas, in part under this project. The areas proposed by the state for ecosystemhiodiversity
    protection are generally in line with the priority areas identified by the 1998 biome-level
    workshop for the Cerrado funded by GEF through the Bank. Priorities under the NRPP will now
    focus on completing the detailed zoning o f the Bico de Papagaio region, on building up an
    environmental capacity in 10 pilot municipios, on preparing master plans in two pilot
    municipios, and on designing appropriate economic instruments to support the zoning
    implementation. The TRPRP would build on the experience developed under the NRPP and the


                                              - 93 -

      PPG7 Demonstration Projects by providing adequate training and technical assistance to
      communities and municipal councils for sustainable production projects, and will provide
      incentives, in the form o f a reduced community cost share, for a new category o f projects which
      aim at the recuperation o f degradedareas andthe sustainable use o f natural resources.

F.   State FiscalPerformance

  27. The structure and evolution o f the state's public finances during the period 1990-1998 are
      characteristic o f a state being established in a region poorly developed, but with good economic
      potential, which implies a high demand for public expenditures, especially capital investments.
      The main characteristics include:

          a. a limited capacity to increase own revenues, given the state's small tax base and low
              ability to pay o f its contributors;

          b. a highdependenceonfederal transfers which representedmore than 60% of state current
              revenues;

          c. primary fiscal deficits during most o f the 199Os, as a result o f reduced tax collection
              capacity and high fixed expenditures associated to the state's organization, especially
              investments inurbaninfrastructure, housing and sanitation sectors;

          d. low financialobligations given the small size ofthe state'spublic debt;

          e. low personnel expenditures relatively to net current revenue, which, contrary to the
              situationin other states o f Brazil, is not likely to represent a threat to fiscal sustainability,
              at least inthe next years; and

           f. a high degree of expenditure flexibility resulting from low personnel and fmancial
              obligations, andlow mandatory transfers to municipalities.

  28. However, since 1998, some o f these characteristics have markedly improved. Total net revenues
      almost doubled, with a 1 fold increase in federal transfers (including capital transfers), and a
      growing share o f own revenues, fuelled by a 1.6 fold increase in tax revenues. In addition,
      infrastructure expenditures linked to the creation o f the state have been reduced, opening space
      for rises on social expenditures (health, education and social assistancesectors). As a result, the
      state succeeded in narrowing primary fiscal deficits, and has achieved primary surpluses since
       1998.

  29. The characteristics o f the state's fiscal situation and recent improvements have allowed the state
      to be in full compliance with the requirements o f the Law on Fiscal Responsibility (LRF):
      personnel expenditures to net current revenue ratio was inferior to 40% (transfers to inactive
      personnel and pensioners corresponds to less than 10% o f state total expenditure), debt to net
      current revenue varied around 0.40, well below the ceiling o f the LRF o f 2. The limits for
      interest payments and amortizationwere complied with in2000 and 2001. The amount o f credits
      contracted by the state in these years has remained inferior to the limits stipulated in the LRF.
      However, the consolidated debt has been increasing significantly from R$665 million at the end
      of 2001, to R$913 million in September 2002, as a result o f large exchange rate fluctuations (a
      substantial part o f the state's debt is extemal) and the contracting o f a new external credit.


                                                   - 94 -

Revenue evolution and structure
    30.    State revenues more than doubled since 1990 (see table below), increase fuelled by: (i)    increase
           in tax revenue; and (ii)   increase in mandatory federal transfers and in non-mandatory federal
           transfers (capital transfers). However, despite the increase in own revenues, the state remains
           highlydependent onfederal transfersto finance its operation andeconomic development.

    31.    Per capita tax revenue increased from being, at the beginningof the 1990s, half the average level
           of the Northem states and a thirdo f the national level, to beingat the level o f the Northem states
           and half of the national level in 2001. Also, tax revenue increased from less than 25% of net
           current revenue in 1990 to 30% in2001. Incontrast, with an increase o f 62%, federal mandatory
           transfers diminished their importance as a source of revenue, passingfrom 75% in 1990 to 65%
           o fnet current revenuesin2001.

    32.    The comparison o f tax burden o f state governments confirms the good performance o f the state
           tax collection. Currently, with a level o f 19% o f GDP, Tocantins has a state tax burdenthat is
           more than twice the tax burdeno f the Northem region andnational average. However, as the tax
           effort delivered by the state government is very good in comparison with national and regional
           averages, this favorable development demonstrates that there is a little space for further
           strengthening the state financial capacity through increasesinstate tax revenue.


                                    TocantinsState Government Revenue, 1990-2002




Source: Bank estimates




                                                    - 95 -

Expenditure evolution and composition
   33.   Analyzing the table below, five main characteristics of the state expenditures can be identified:

            i.since1995,expenditurelevelsarerelativelystable,atabouttheir1990level;

            ii.financialexpenditures(interestpaymentsandamortization)representonlyasmallpartof
               total expenditures, as the state debt level is relatively low (see paragraph 35 below);

           iii.contrary to the situation observed inmost other states, investment andother capital
               expenditures have remained a very significant portionoftotal expenditures;

           iv. personnel expenditures (including expenditures for inactive personnel) are low, especially
               compared to other states in Brazil, where the high level o f personnel expenditures has
               constituted a major obstacle to fiscal adjustment, and a threat to fiscal stability; and

            v. per capita primary expenditures have been higher than northern states and national
               average, especially inthe last 4 three years, where per capita primary expenditures reached
               around R$1,300 in 2002, while the northern states and national average were between
               R$600and R$700.




6. Financial            3      5       2      2     16      31     36     46     60     61   68      74   78
Expenditure

7. Total             1135    702    688    832    927    802 1150         941   979   945 1161 1322 1614
Expenditure(5+6)



   34.   Inaddition, ananalysis o fthe allocationofnonfinancial expenditures among economic functions
         allows to observe changes in composition over the 1990-2002 period. Initially, housing and
         urban development sectors were privileged, but as time passed, social expenditures, which
         includes education, health social assistance and labor, increased their participation, achieving



                                                   - 96 -

        40% of non financial expenditures and maintaining this share during the nineties. Since 1999,
        the share of social expenditures has been reduced relatively to about 30% of non financial
        expenditures, (but has beenremaining basically constant inamount). On the other hand, during
        the last four years, expenditures increased mostly on infrastructure functions (energy, transport,
        communication among the most important areas) and administrative functions (administration,
        planning, legislative andjudiciary).

State debt evolution
  35.   The state's public debt is low mainly because of the state's recent creation and low financial
        capacity. Figures show that (see table below), at the end of 2001, the state consolidated net debt
        represents only 0.12% of the total consolidated debt of the Brazilian state governments. In
        addition, at the end o f 2002, consolidated net debt represented 37% of net current revenues,
        which is relatively low, compared to ratios achieved in other states in Brazil, and a LRF ceiling
        of 2.   As a result, financial expenditures of the state (amortization and interest payments)
        corresponded to lessthan 7% of total expenditures.


                                     State of TocantinsDebt, 1999-2001
                                          (millions of Reais of 2001)
                   -                                  I 1999   I  2000 I  2001  1  2002
                                                      I        I         1      I

                    1. Internal Debt                    203.5     199,7   264,8    285,l
                                                                                I
                                                      I        I         I        8
                       To National Treasury             92.6   I  90.7   I89,3     85.8
                       To Banks                       II110.9 I 107.7 I 104.4 I 116.9
                          Federal Banks               I 110.9  I  107.7  I104,4   I116.9
                          Private Banks
                       Other Debts (INSS)                      I   1.3    71,O    I82.5
                                                               I                  I

                    3. External Debt                    277.0    265.4    311,O    588.9

                    4. Float Debt                       26.8      32.5    49,2      4.5

                    5. Guarantees                                         40,3

                    6. Total Debt (1+2+3+4+5)           507.3    497.6    665,3    874.0

                    7. Consolidated Debt (6-4-5)        480.5    465.1    575,8    869.5




                          Source: Bank estimates




                                                    - 97 -

   36.   From the above table, we can note: (i)   a highratio o f extemal debt to total debt; (ii) intemal
                                                                                                 an
         debt constituted exclusively o f credits from the National Treasury and federal financial
         institutions (Caixa Econbmica Federal, Banco do Brasil); and (iii)    while consolidated net debt
         has been relatively stable until 2001, it increased 25% in 2002. This increase masks an even
         stronger increaseinconsolidated debt, which has been partially offset by a significant increase in
         the state's fmancial assets. The increase in consolidated debt has two mainreasons: (i)severe
                                                                                                   a
         devaluation o f the R$, coupled with the high ratio o f extemal debt to total debt; and (ii)  the
         contracting o fan additional extemal credit.

Looking ahead
   37.   Looking ahead at the possible evolution o f the state's economy and LRF main ratios, it seems
         that the debt service to net current revenues ratio is the ratio which could reveal itself as a
         constrain (see table below). The low indebtedness, the low interests and the long-term maturity
         o f the debt have ensured that debt service remains below the LRF ceiling. However, on the basis
         o freasonableprojections for exchange rate evolution, inflation, debt and state GDP growth show
         that, between 2003 and 2006, the debt service ratio will be close to the LRF ceiling. This will
         limit the growth of the state debt stock, especially if the state's economy experiences further
         extemal negative shocks or a decrease inthe level o f economy.




        Inflation           12.5     9       4.5     4.5     4.5     4.5    4.5      4.5      4.5
        GDP Growth          2.0      2.5     3        3.5    4        4      4        4       4
        ProjectedNet
        CurrentRevenue     1391     1555    1673     1810   1967    2138   2323      2525    2744

                                          Source: Bank Estimates




                                                   - 98 -

G.   The Government's DevelopmentStrategy

  38. The previous Government prepared a comprehensive development framework for the State (PPA
      2000-2003), consistent with the PPA for the Federation. The new administration, which has
      taken ofice on January 1, 2003, will prepare a new PPA for 2004-2007 which would follow the
      broad objectives andpolicies o f the previous administration. The State PPA emphasizes freedom
      o f initiative and social justice,  environmental sustainability, and a broad participation o f all
      segments o fsociety inthe development process. It is structured around five major objectives:

        0     Promote sustainableeconomic growth, with priority to the agricultural, agro-industrial and
              eco-tourism sectors;

        0     Reduce poverty, social inequity, andregional disparities;

        0     Consolidate the state's infrastructure, particularly inthe transport and energy sectors;

        0     Strengthen the public administration, emphasizing sound fiscal management; and

        0     Enforce human rights and reduce crime andviolence.

  39. For each o f these objectives, the PPA specifies policies, programs andbudgets.Overall, there are
      144 state programs o f an aggregated cost o f R$ 11 billion over four years. About half of this
      amount is expected to come from private sources, 35% from the state budget, 8% from the
      federal budget, and 7% from borrowings. The state resources would be allocated primarily and
      equally to the social and infrastructure programs (about 40% each), to support economic growth
      (15%) and to public administration and safety (5%).

  40. The Government's strategy to achieve both sustainable economic growth and reduction o f
      poverty and regional disparities emphasizes increasingthe productivity o f sustainable agriculture
      in poverty-targeted program areas with proven potential for sustainable development, and the
      competitiveness o f their products. This is to be achieved through a mix of public infrastructure
      (mainly transport and rural electrification), community infrastructure and microfinance,
      environmental conservation, and social programs, which include programs aimed at eradicating
      illiteracy, improving labor qualification, increasing schooling and the quality o f primary
      education, and at improving water and sanitation.

H.   The Bank's Assistance Strategy

  41. The Bank has established an integrated dialogue with the state o f Tocantins to define, withn the
      Government's comprehensive development framework, and in complementarity o f existing
      development programs, the type o f assistance required to help the state stimulate economic
      development and reduce poverty in a sustainable fashion. The dialogue is maintainedprimarily
      with the state's Secretariat o f Planning, with other state Secretariats involved depending on the
      topics discussed. A first round o f such discussions resulted in the definition o f the Bank's
      assistance strategy for the state and in the framework for the implementation o f such strategy
      over the next four to five years. The dialogue will be continuedduring this period, through joint
      evaluation and monitoring o f the state development programs (including projects administered or
      cofinanced by the Bank), organization, of, each year, one joint supervision mission for all Bank
      activities under implementation, and o f follow-up overall discussions to define jointly the scope


                                                 - 99 -

    o f future Bank activities inthe state.

42. The Bank's strategy emphasizes:

     0     integration and (inter-sectoral, inter-government and spatial) coordination of public
           program, through development o f decentralized and multisectoral planning processes with
           effective participationo f the poor, public-private partnerships and effective monitoring and
           evaluation;

     0     effective management and conservation of natural resources,through continuation and
           implementation o f the agro-ecological zoning o f the state, as an instrument for targeting
           public infrastructure investments, for guiding the decentralized planning processes, for
           establishing ecosystem conservation units, and for licensing public and private
           investments; and

     0     promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable activities which
           generate employment and income for the poor, by improving access o f rural
           communities to infrastructure services, particularly transport (access to markets, off-farm
           jobs, and education and health services), and by scaling up, replicating successful
           sustainable developmentlpoverty reduction paths at the regional level (pilot production
           projects underthe NRPP, etc.. .).

43. The Bank's strategy focuses on the four poorest regions o f the state, the North (also known as the
    Bico do Pupuguio region), the Northeast, the East (also known as the JalupGo region), and the
    Southeast. These four regions which, together, cover half o f the state's area, represent a third o f
    the state's population, and about half the municipalities, have the lowest indices of human
    development (IDH) inthe state. The North, which has the highest population density, is among
    the poorest regions inBrazil.

44. The Bank's strategy will be implemented in an integrated fashion, to complement, leverage
    programs o f and coordinate with existing partners inthe areas o f sustainable and integrated m a l
    development, private enterprise development, cluster and logistics studies, SME development,
    support to development o f local participatory mechanisms, environmental protection, and
    municipal management. Aside from the Government and municipalities o fthe state o f Tocantins,
    the main partners include the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), the U.K.
    Department for International Development (DFID), the local managers o f the Programa
    Alvorada and o f the Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service (SEBRAE), the
    federation o f industries o f the state o f Tocantins (FIETO), the Brazilian Institute for the
    Protection o f the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), and the University
    of Tocantins.

45. The framework for the implementation o f the Bank's strategy includes an ongoing Natural
    Resources Policy Project (NRPP) under the Pilot Project to Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest
    (PPG7), this project, and a proposed Tocantins Rural Poverty ReductionProject (TRPRP). The
    Tocantins Sustainable Regional Development Project (TSRDP) includes a number o f features
    which have been designed to support the Bank's strategy as a whole, andwhich will be used and,
   insome cases, further developed underthe proposed TRPRP, including definitiodconsolidation
    and operation o f participatory mechanisms at the local level, set-up o f inter-municipal consortia,
    set up o f an integrated M&E for the state's public programs, strengthening o f municipal


                                              - 100-

    management capacity and preparation o fmunicipal development strategies.

46. Within the above strategic framework, the project will focus on the actions needed at the state,
    regional andmunicipal levels, specifically:

     0     establish and/or strengthen participatory, multisectoral planning processes at the regional
           and municipal levels guided by agro-ecological zoning instruments, buildlocal institutions,
           andpromote public-private partnerships for better targeting ofpublic investment, effective
           delivery o f infrastructure services, and sustainable use o fnatural resources;

     0     consolidate and expand the state's environmental protection system, ref~ngthe
           ago-ecological zoning instruments, strengthening land use and water resource monitoring,
           consolidating existing and establishing new ecosystem conservation areas;

     0     increasethe competitiveness and incomes o f farmers inselectedprogram areas with proven
           potential for sustainable growth by upgrading feeder road links to the main highway
           network; and

     0     improve access o f rural communities to markets, off-farm jobs, education and social
           services by upgrading and maintaining selected municipal access road networks to
           all-weather condition.

47. Insupporting the consolidation andexpansionofthe state's environmental protectionsystem, the
    project will build upon and expand the activities undertaken in the state through the NRPP,
    namely the strengthening o f the state environmental organization, the support to the
    decentralization o f environmental management from the state to municipal levels, and the
    preparation o f a pilot integrated environmental management project inthe region o f the Bico de
    Papagaio, which will serve as basis to define the agro-ecological zoning instruments (the design
    and implementation of which will be financed under the project) for the other regions of the state.

48. The TRPRP would complement the project by focusing on the actions needed at the community
    level, and specifically:

     0     strengthen the capacity o f rural community associations to collectively define, implement
           and maintain community projects, and o f consultative process at municipal level to select
           sustainable, priority projects;

     0     increase incomes o f rural poor by providing technical assistanceand grants to community
           associations for starting new, sustainable, farming or other productive projects;

     0     improve the well-being o f rural poor by providing technical assistance and grants to
           community associationsfor preparing and implementing selected community infrastructure
           projects; and

     0     improve the conservation o f ecosystems by providing technical assistance and grants to
           community      associations for     preparing and implementing          selected community
           environmental conservation or rehabilitation projects.

Sources:
Contas Regionais do Brasil, 1985-1998, IBGE
Censo Demogrhfico 2000, IBGE
1995-1996 Agropecuhrio Censo, IBGE
PesquisaNacional por Amostragem de Domicilios, 1981-1999, IPEA
Tocantins Poverty Profile, September2002, by Dr.Francisco Galrso Carneiro
Sintese de Indicadores Sociais, 2000, IBGE
IBGECIDADES@ Website
Sistema Nacional de Informaqdes Urbanas, various dates, Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano
Atlas de Desenvolvimento no Brasil, UnitedNations
Perfil Competitivo do Estado do Tocantins, SENAI, 2002
Plan0 Plurianual, PPA, 2000-2003, Govemo do Estado do Tocantins
Fiscal performance of the state of Tocantins, 1990-2002, February 2003 by Mr.Femando Blanco




                                                 - 102-

