Report No. PIC715
Project Name        Guyana-Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Private Sector
Project ID                GYPA7259
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Dr. Asgar Ally
Senior Minister of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Tel: (592-2) 71114
Date Prepared             December, 1993
Projected Board Date      October, 1994
1.   Background. Guyana's economy is mainly based on the production of
export of sugar, rice, and bauxite. Agricultural activity is
concentrated along the coastal belt of the country where most of the
population resides, whereas the extensive mineral and timber resources
within the tropical hinterland -- with the exception of bauxite mining
-- remain largely unexploited. Guyana's population, estimated at
about 800,000 in mid-1992, has been declining over the past decade as
a result of a low birth rate and continuous emigration. Economic
activity has been retarded by failure of the Government of Guyana
(GOG) to address economic issues adequately, until recently, and by
sharp fluctuations in output stemming from the economy's vulnerability
to changes in the external environment. Per capita GNP (US$330) is
the second lowest in the Western hemisphere. Public debt per capita
(US$2,260) is one of the world's highest.
2.   The Proposed Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit. The
proposed Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC) will
serve as a useful instrument to spur progress in improving the
environment for the private investor. PSDAC would require action on
the following: (a) restarting and continuing the privatization of
state-owned enterprises including commercial banks; (b) financial
sector reform, consisting of the adoption of new legislation and the
privatization/restructuring of the main state-controlled financial
institutions; (c) continuing trade liberalization and rationalization
of incentives; and (d) adopting tax policy reforms that would broaden
the tax base and remove disincentives to long-term investment in the
economy. Conditionality is defined in detail in the policy matrix.
(a) Privatization
3.   The Government has adopted an approach to institute and implement
a new privatization program which focuses on 5 main areas: (a)
development of a fair privatization policy; (b) institutional
framework for privatization; (c) selection of enterprises for
privatization; (d) employee participation in privatization; and (e) a
program of public communication and education. The Government will
decide on the selection and the sequencing of the enterprises to be
privatized in the first phase of the privatization program. In



conjunction with the privatization, the Government will set out a
policy for ESOPs and commence a campaign to disseminate information on
the process to the public.
(b) Financial Sector Reform
4.   The Government has taken significant measure to liberalize the
financial system, including the freeing of interest rates,
establishment of a market-based exchange rate mechanism, strengthening
prudential regulation of banks and allowing new banks to enter the
system. The Credit would promote improved allocation of savings
through the financial system by further measures to improve financial
institution regulation, reduce the State's position as owner of a
number of bank and non-bank financial institutions, strengthen
monetary management and remove impediments to capital market
development.
(c) Trade Regime and the Business Environment
5.   The Government has reaffirmed its commitment to implementing the
revised CET tariff schedule on the fast track (5-30- in the first
year) and is in the process of passing the enabling legislature
through Parliament. Guyana has a complex system of tariff exemptions
which results in a highly-differentiated structure of effective
protection. The Government also intends to implement a plan to reduce
import duty exemptions, leaving in place only those necessary by
reason of international agreement, health, safety, and charity.
(d) Tax Reform
6.   The Government plans to implement tax reform measures that will
bolster fiscal revenues, eliminate distortions and create a fair
system of taxation, thereby reducing the incentive for individuals to
evade taxes. These will include measures to integrate corporate and
personal taxes, to phase out the tax rate differential between
commercial and non-commercial companies. To simplify the consumption
tax and combine it with exercise taxes. In line with the elimination
of exemptions on the Consumption Tax.
7.   Tranche Conditionality and Other Features of the Credit. The
proposed credit is for US$15 million of IDA reflows are also expected
to be channeled to Guyana in association with the credit over a three-
year period. In addition, a US$3.5 million (SDR 2.5 million) TAC to
develop the institutional capacity necessary to implement the reform
program is also being considered. The Borrower would be the Republic
of Guyana and the implementing agency would be the MOF. The Bank of
Guyana would play a coordinating role in the financial sector reform
component of the credit.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
-2 -



Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



