Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2746-2-GUA
                          Agreement Amending
                    Development Credit Agreement
           (Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit)
                               between
                         REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated June 21, 1996
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2746-2-GUA
                          AGREEMENT AMENDING
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF GUYANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector Development Adjustment
Credit) of June 21, 1995 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the
Program);
      (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into the
First Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector
Development Adjustment Credit) dated June 21, 1995, whereby additional
assistance was made available to the Borrower for the financing of the
Program under the 1995 annual allocations from the Association's
reflow resources;
      (C)   pursuant to an amendment letter from the Association to
the Borrower dated March 27, 1996, duly countersigned by the
Borrower's representative on such date, the disbursement procedures
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector
Development Adjustment Credit) were simplified;
      (D)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further assistance toward the financing of the Program under the
1996 annual allocations from the Association's reflow resources by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR2,000,000); and
Page  2
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such further additional assistance to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                    Amendments of the Development
                          Credit Agreement
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by:
      (a)   substituting the amount "SDR3,333,000" by the amount
      "SDR5,333,000" in paragraph (x) thereof;
      (b)   deleting the word "and" after paragraph (ab) thereof;
      (c)   substituting the period at the end of paragraph (ac)
      thereof by a semicolon and adding the word "and" after such
      semicolon; and
      (d)   adding the following new paragraph (ad):
            "(ad) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending
            the Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector
            Development Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and
            the Association dated June 21, 1996, whereby  an
            additional assistance was made available to the Borrower
            for the financing of the Program under the 1996 annual
            allocations from the Association's reflow resources.".
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
      "Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
      on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
      Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
      equivalent to fourteen million Special Drawing Rights
      (SDR14,000,000) (the Credit), which includes an original
      amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
      Special Drawing Rights (SDR10,000,000); a first supplemental
      amount in various currencies equivalent to two million Special
      Drawing Rights (SDR2,000,000) (the First Additional Financing);
      and a second supplemental amount in various currencies
      equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR2,000,000)
      (the Second Additional Financing).".
      Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
      "(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c),(d),(e) and
      (f) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use
      the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
      and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.".
      Section 1.04. Paragraph (d)(ii) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by substituting the amount "SDR8,666,000"
by the amount "SDR10,666,000.".
      Section 1.05. The proviso added by the First Amending Agreement at
the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
      "; provided, however, that any commitment charge on: (i) the
      First Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days
      after the date of the First Amending Agreement; and (ii) the
      Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days
      after the date of the Amending Agreement;".
Page  3
      Section 1.06. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement:
      "(f) After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending
      Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment
      shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the
      Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
      proceeds of the Second Additional Financing. At any time after
      such date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
      cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional
      Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof.".
                             ARTICLE II
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of
this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force
and effect by September 18, 1996, this Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect,
as if this Agreement had not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
                         By /s/ Odeen Ishmael
                                           Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Paul Isenaman
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                     Latin America and the Caribbean
