CREDIT NUMBER a  -GUA
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            , 1995


﻿CREDIT NO. H        -GUA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1  1995, between REPUBLIC
OF GUYANA (the Borrower) and IYTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter (the Policy Letter) dated
April 10, 1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's private sector (the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution;
(B)    the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $35,000,000 to assist in
financing the Program, on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and IDB (the IDB Loan Agreement); and
(C)    on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided, in
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)    Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:


﻿-2-
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.";
(c)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a meaber of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Bank of Guyana" means the Borrower's Central Bank, established under
the Bank of Guyana Act (as hereinafter defined);
(b)    "Bank of Guyana Act" means the Borrower's Bank of Guyana Act
(Chapter 85:02 of the Laws of Guyana), as the same is in full force and effect as of the
date of this Agreement;
(c)    "Banking Act" means the Borrower's Banking Act (Chapter 85:01 of the
Laws of Guyana);
(d)    "Bring to the Point of Sale" means the Borrower's actions, satisfactory to
the Association, aimed at: (i) completing the analysis of the legal, economic, financial and
operational condition of a Public Enterprise or a Financial Institution (both as hereinafter
defined), the auditing and evaluation of its accounts and the determination of the
privatization strategy to be adopted for such Enterprise or Institution, as the case may be;


﻿-3-
and (ii) publishing advertisement for sale, long-term leasing, contracting of services or
granting of concession, as the case may be, and issuing the prospectus or the tender
documents related to such sale, leasing, contracting or grant, as the case may be, provided,
however, that in the case of the Public Enterprises (as hereinafter defined) the Borrower's
actions will also include the implementation of the environmental actions required prior
to actual privatization;
(e)    "CARICOM" means the Caribbean Common Market created by the
General Treaty for the Caribbean Community signed on July 4, 1970 by Anguilla,
Antigua, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica,
Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and
Tobago;
(f)    "CARICOM Common External Tariff Schedule" means the schedule
approved by the member countries of CARICOM on October 27, 1992;
(g)    "COFA Act" means the Borrower's Cooperative Financial Institutions Act
(Chapter 75:01 of the Laws of Guyana);
(h)    "Employee Ownership Plan" means any mechanism, satisfactory to the
Association, aimed at achieving employee participation in the capital stock of any Public
Enterprise (as hereinafter defined), including concessionary methods to facilitate the
purchase of shares such as discount sales, installment sales or financing incentives that
allow partial payments from future eamings of the respective Enterprise;
(i)    "Financial Institutions" means GAIBANK, GBTI, GCMFB,GCIS, GNCB,
GNCB Trust and NBIC (all as hereinafter defined);
(j)    "Financial Institutions Act" means the Borrower's Financial Institutions
Act of 1995, as the same is in full force and effect as of the date of this Agreement;
(k)    "Financing Plan" means the Borrower's external financing plan for each
of the years within the period 1995-1997, as the same may be revised from time to time;
(1)    "First Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 3,333,000 to be released by the Association on or after the Effective
Date;
(m)    "GAIBANK" means the Guyana Cooperative Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank, a bank established under the COFA Act;


﻿-4-
(n)    "GBTI" means the Guyana Bank for Industry and Trade, a bank
established under the Banking Act;
(o)    "GCIS" means the Guyana Cooperative Insurance Service, an insurance
company established under the COFA Act;
(p)    "GCMFB" means the Guyana Cooperative Mortgage Finance Bank, a bank
established under the COFA Act;
(q)    "GNCB" means the Guyana National Cooperative Bank, a bank
established under the COFA Act;
(r)    "GNCB Trust" means the Guyana National Cooperative Bank Trust, a
trust company established under the COFA Act;
(s)    "Go-Invest" means the Borrower's Guyana Office of Investment, an
agency established under the Borrower's Public Corporations Act of 1988;
(t)    "NBIC" means the Nationnl Bank for Industry and Commerce, a bank
established under the Banking Act;
(u)    "Privatization Plan" means the Borrower's plan for the privatization of the
Public Enterprises (as hereinafter defined), through, inter alia, Bringing to the Point of
Sale such Enterprises and designing and implementing the respective Employee
Ownership Plans; such plan to be implemented as described in the letter from the
Borrower to the Association of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1);
(v)    "Prudential Regulations" means the regulations, satisfactory to the
Association, of the Financial Institutions Act, aimed at improving the capacity of the Bank
of Guyana to monitor financial institutions, containing provisions on: (i) supervision of
selected financial institutions other than banks; (ii) development of improved standards
for risk management consistent with international norms on capital adequacy, single
borrower limits, and loan classification and provisioning; (iii) improved reporting and
disclosure; and (iv) supervision fees and licensing requirements;
(w)    "Public Enterprise" means any of the enterprises listed in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and any of the Financial Institutions;
(x)    "Second Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 3,333,000 to be released by the Association upon compliance by the


﻿-5-
Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(y)    "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343
(1986);
(z)    "Tax Reform Plan" means the Borrower's plan to reform its consumption
tax and income tax, as well as related investment incentives; such plan to be implemented
as described in the letter from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter No. 2); and
(aa)   "Trade Reform Plan" means the Borrower's plan for the implementation
of the CARICOM Common External Tariff Schedule, the elimination of non-tariff trade
barriers and quantitative restrictions, and the elimination of tariff exemptions; such plan
to be implemented as described in the letter from the Borrower to the Association of even
date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 3).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Assoiation agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the tenns and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to ten million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the


﻿-6-
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June
1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2005 and ending June 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2015 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-7-
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Governor of the Bank of Guyana or any person appointed
by him or her in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)    Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby
entrusts the Bank of Guyana with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence
to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal
of aggregate amounts of not less than $250,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including
any action specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than three months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and


﻿-9-
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the staterrMnts of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program or the Financing Plan, or a significant part of the Program or the Financial Plan,
will be carried out;
(b)    that the Bank of Guyana Act or the Financial Institutions Act or the
Prudential Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the
implementation of the Program or the ability of the Borrower to comply with the
provisions of this Agreement; and
(c)    (i)     subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the IDB Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof; or
(B)    the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii)    subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)    such  suspension,  cancellation,  termination  or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the


﻿- 10 -
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the
IDB Loan Agreement; and
(B)    adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the Geneial Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    that any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)    that the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Association shall have been satisfied that
the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the Financing Plan are consistent
with the objectives of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date                   /    , 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 9f the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Main and Urquhart Streets
Georgetown
Guyana
Cable address:              Telex:
MINFIN                             3038
Guyana
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    6
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group             Subgroup         Description of Items
112                  --            Alcoholic beverages
121                   --           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                  --            Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                  --            Radioactive and
associated materials
667                  --            Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked
718               718.1            Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728               728.43           Tobacco processing machinery


﻿- 14 -
897               897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                   --            Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)    payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
2,000,000 may,be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after AM J/ /9
(d)    expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000
equivalent;
(e)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed
or agreed to finance;
(f)    expenditures for sugar or goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g)    expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000
for foodstuffs.
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 may be required by the Association upon the basis
of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit:


﻿- 15 -
(a)    after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 3,333,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory
to the Association:
(i)     with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program;
(ii)    that:
(A)    no action has been taken after the disbursement of the
First Tranche which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action
taken under the Program; and
(B)    the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
have been taken, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(iii)   that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
Financing Plan are consistent with the objectives of the
Program; and
(b)    after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR 6,666,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange
of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory
to the Association:
(i)     with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program;
(ii)    that:
(A)    no action has been taken after the disbursement of the
Second Tranche which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the program or
any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and


﻿- 16 -
(B)    the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
have been taken, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association; and
(iii)   that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
Financing Plan are consistent with the objectives of the
Program.
5.    If, after the exchanges of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are
not satisfactory or that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
Financing Plan are not consistent with the objectives of the Program and, within 90 days
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, or the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and
the Financing Plan shall have not become consistent with the objectives of the Program,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines,
subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured:
1.     by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such procedures,
provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association; and
2.     by other purchasers:
(a)    under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(b)    in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph
of the Guidelines.
Part D:       Commodities
1.    In respect of petroleum imports under existing contracts entered into with oil
suppliers, the Association shall finance out of the Credit: (a) an amount not to exceed, per


﻿- 18 -
unit, the average between lower and higher FOB prices reflected in the Platt's Oilgram
for the US Gulf Coast or the Caribbean, as applicable, for the relevant date of loading
(with due adjustment for type and quality of crude or petroleum product); and (b) the cost
of the related freight and insurance procured on a competitive basis from a source eligible
under the Guidelines.
2.    In respect of other commodity imports under existing contracts entered into with
the corresponding suppliers, the Association shall finance out of the Credit an amount not
to exceed the average FOB price posted (for the commodity in question and for the
relevant date of shipment) by a commodity exchange acceptable to the Association, plus
the additional costs referred to in subparagraph 1 (b) above, if applicable.
Part E:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or
more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) (ii) (B)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.     The Borrower shall have achieved progress in the implementation of the
Privatization Plan, as described in paragraphs 3 (e) (ii), 3 (f) (i) and 3 (f) (ii) thereof.
2.     The Borrower shall have: (a) maintained in full force and effect the Financial
Institutions Act; and (b) put in full force and effect the Prudential Regulations.
3.     The Borrower's Cabinet shall have approved a bill to amend the Bank of Guyana
Act, aimed at increasing the independence of the Bank of Guyana.
4.     The Borrower shall have completed the financial and operational merger of
GAIBANK and GNCB.
5.     The Borrower shall have maintained Go-Invest in operation.
6.     The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association draft regulations for the
Borrower's Companies Act of 1991.
7.     The Borrower shall have put into effect the measures included in the Trade
Reform Plan.
8.     The Borrower shall have put into effect the measures included in the Tax Reform
Plan.
9.     The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association a certified copy of the audit
report referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement in respect of the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the First Tranche.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) (ii) (B)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.     The Borrower shall have achieved progress in the implementation of the
Privatization Plan, as described in paragraphs 3 (e) (iii) and 3 (f) (ii) thereof.
2.     The Borrower shall have submitted to the Borrower's Parliament the bill
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.     The Borrower shall have defined the mandate and future strategy of Go-Invest,
and the operating plan for the following two years.
4.     The Borrower shall have issued the regulations referred to in paragraph 6 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.     The Borrower shall have maintained the measures included in the Trade Reform
Plan.
6.     The Borrower shall have maintained the measures included in the Tax Reform
Plan.
7.     The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association a certified copy of the audit
report referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement in respect of the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Second Tranche.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Public Enterprises
Demerara Distilleries
Guyana Airways Corporation
Guyana Electricity Corporation
Guyana Glassworks Limited
Guyana National Engineering Corporation
Guyana National Printers
Guyana Oil Company Limited
Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation
Guyana National Shipping Corporation
Guyana Stockfeeds
Guyana Stores Limited
Guyana Sugar Corporation
Hope Coconut Industries Limited
Linden Mining Company
National Edible Oil Company
Forte Crest (Pegasus) Hotel
Seals and Packaging Industries Limited


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


