Document of
The World Bank
F'OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor" No. 8110
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2084-OM)
OCTOBER 17, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR 0MICL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
USA
Office of Othectn.CGerIal
OpefAtens (valitson
October 17, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Oman Second Highway Maintenance
Prolect (Loan 2084-OM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project  Completion  Report  on  Oman  -  Second  Highway Maintenance
Project (Loan 2084-OM)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this tirma.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2084-OM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   . . . . . . . . . . .  ...... .... .... ... ...... ..........I..............i
Evaluation Summary               .............................        ...................
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Basic Information                 ....................................                           1
B.   Project Background   ........ ....                  ................................           1
C.   Project Objectives and Description   ............................                              2
D.   Design and Organization   ....  ......................... .                                    2
E.   Project  Implementation             .................................. .                       3
F. Project Results                  ....................................                            5
G.   Reevaluation of Rates of Return and Benefits Sustainability    ...                             5
H.   Borrower Performance and Bank-Borrower Relationship   .......... .                             6
I. Consulting Services                ....................................                          7
J.   Project Documentation and Data   .............................. .                              8
K. Conclusion                    ....................................                               8
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(including maps)
Preface                      ...................................                                   11
Project Data Summary Sheet              ................. .. ....... .     .....................   12
Loan Disbursement Summary Sheet   ...................................                              13
World Bank Mission Visits Surmmary Sheet   ...........                ..       ..............      14
1.   Introduction                 .................................................              15
1.1   Co-operation With the World Bank   ......                 .......................           15
1.2   The Road network   ....... . ......................                        ............     15
2.   Project  Identification,  Objectives & Appraisal                   .........                16
2.1   Project  Identification   ...*..... ..  .... .....   ...... ......... ...                    16
2.2   Project Objectives             .....................         ......................         16
2.3   Project Appraisal   ....................              *s*................................   17
3.   Implementation                  ...............................................             18
3.1  General Implementation   ............ ...........................                            18
3.2   Highway Maintenance   ................... ........................                           18
3.3   Equipment & Spare Parts  for Highway Maintenance     ............                           20
3.4   Consultant & Individual Technician Services     ....  soo-o........                         21
3.5   Related Activities           ...................... .      ... .................            23
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutic. ' contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



4.  Economic Evaluation  ... .... ...... . ......  ...... ...... ***        24
5.  Summary and Conclusions  ...................  . ............. .         26
5.1 General Performance         . ............. . ........ .... o ... .      26
5.2  The World Bank Role       . . .......     ... . ....      ....... .     26
5.3  Future Action      .      .. .. .......... ..... . ....                 26
ANNEX 1
Table 1.1  Loan Categories and Allocated Amounts ..............         31
Table 1.2  Description of the Project         ............       ..     32
Table 1.3  Loan Amounts and Disbursements by Category .........         33
ANNEX 2
Table 2.1  The Road Network  and Vehicle Fleet.                       37
Table 2.2  Summary of Projects Allocated to Loan Categories           39
Table 2.3  DGR WorK Centers Status by 1988                            52
Table 2.4  Vehicle Dimensions and Weights ........... ......         54
Table 2.5  Vehicle Operating Costs                 .......            55
MAPS
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans                ..65
2.  Project Timetable  ..- ...........         ..    . .             ....66
3.  Cumulative Loan Disbursements                      .                     66
4.  Estimated and Actual Progress and Disbursements  . .67
5. Project Costs  ...... .......                  ..                ......  .  .68
5.B Project Financing   -o .......... ... ...... ...                         69
6.  Project Results - A.  Direct Benefits.                                   70
- B.  Economic Impact.....*. ...                        70
73  Status of Covenants  ......    - ..        .. .... .                     71
8. Use of Bank Resources                         ..72



i--
SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2084-OM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Highway
Maintenance Project in Oman, for which Loan 2084-OM in the amount of US$15.0
million was approved on December 1, 1982. The loan was closed on December 31,
1988, three years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed on March 31, 1989
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of Country Department III, Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in October 1988, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



- I I
SULI AN AITI OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2084-OM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The project was designed as a follow-up to the rirst Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 1441-OM) for which a project completion report was
prepared in August 1985. The overall project objective was to ensure adequate
maintenance of the Borrower's highway network which amounted to about 3,250 km
of paved and 1500 km of gravel roads and 8000 km of earth tracks. This
objective was to be achieved through (i) assisting in financing priority
maintenance projects; (ii) upgrading maintenance farilities and equipment; and
(iii) strengthening maintenance institutions through a program of technical
assistance and training.
Implemeitation Experience
P,hysical objectives of the project, includitug improved levtls of ruad
maintenance and strengthening the Directorate General of Roads' maintenan'-
capabUlity, were successfully achieved, although three years late. The
training program for Omani maintenance equipment operators, mechanics. aid
other road maintenance personnel also achieved its objectives.  However,
institutional objectives, especially the implementation of a maintewarioe Cost
accounting and road maintenance management systems, were only partly
successful.
Results
At appraisal it was estimated that the project would yield an economic
rate of return (ERR) of 44%. Cost and traffic data were not adequate to
permit recalculation of the ERR in detail but a reestimate by Bank staff at
the time of project completion indicated an ERR of 48%. A visual inspection
of the road system showed that maintenance levels were generally good,
although significant parts of the paved network are beginning to show distress
due to age. The majority of sub-professional maintenance personnel are now
Omani, but at senior professional level expatriate technical assistance
personnel will be required for several years to come. The consultants who
provided technical assistance performed well.



- iii -
Sustainability
The project is being followed up by the Third Highway Maintenance
Project (Loan 2631-OM) with similar objectives. However, sustainability of
progress made under the Second Highway Maintenance Project is limited by (1)
continued institutional weaknesses; (ii) lack of professional Omani personnel;
and (iii) an inadequate planning data base. These issues are being addressed
under the Third Project but continued World Bank participation in the sector
will be necessary for several years before sustainability can be achieved.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
The most important lessons learnt during implementation of this
project were:
(a)   in countries, such as Oman, which are at a relatively early
stage in developing a modern economy and institutions, a
strategy cf long-term Bank participation needs to be adopted in
order to achieve objectives;
(b)   special attention should be paid during project preparation to
training and setting up an effective project management unit
with clearly defined terms of reference;
(c)   project design in the early stages of a country's development
should focus to the extent possible on developing indigenous
institutions and procedures in order to make these more
efficient rath,r than on introducing new ones; and
(d)   the establishment of data collection and retrieval systems is
critical for effective project management and evaluation and
should be specifically covenanted.
-I



SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHiWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT, LOAN 2084-OM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
A. Basic Information
Total Project Cost at Appraisal                : $48.1 million
Foreign Exchange/IBRD Loan                     : $34.2/$15.0 million
Other Financing                                : $33.1 million Government
First Mention in Files                         : 09/79
Appraisal                                      : 06/15/80
Board Presentation                             : 01/12/82
Original Effectiveness/Actual Effectiveness  : 04/30/82 / 05/26/82
Original Closing/Actual Closing                :  12/31/85 / 12/31/88
Final Project Cost (estimated)                 : $43.8 million
Total Disbursements                            : $15.0 million
Man months preparation & Appraisal Bank staff:  4.5
Man months supervision Bank staff              :  14.5
Appraisal Rate of Return:                      : 44%
Reestimated Rate of Return:                    : 48%
B. Project Background
1.       At the time of project preparation and appraisal Oman's road system,
whilst not large, was expanding rapidly, and paved roads increased from about
1,900 km to 3,267 km between 1980 and 1983. During the same period the
unpaved network expanded from about 6,500 km to 10,000 km. This represented a
major investment for a country which, although deriving an important income
from oil production, had very large demands on its resources as it undertook a
comprehensive program of modernization. The Government accepted the advice
given by the World Bank, as a result of the Bank financed Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 985-OM, 1974), to develop the necessary institutions to protect
these important investments.  The first step in this was provided by the First
Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1441-OM) which was satisfactorily completed
in May 1985, and provided assistance in starting up a training program and
supporting a three year tranche (1979-81) of the road maintenance program.
Th. First Highway Maintenance Project clearly only started the process of
institution building and resource development, and much remained to be done at
the timf. of its completion. Consequently, at the time of design and appraisal
of the Second Highway Maintenance Project the priority sectorial objective was



to continue resource transfer in road maintenance through providing
maintenance facilities, financing importanc maintenance and building up skills
in the highway sector. Conditionalitv was limited to the development of an
effective maintenance plan. In view of the country's limited development and
very meagre professional staff resources, iimited conditionality was probably
the correct policy.
2.       The project focus was upon building a small but essential block in
the overall policy of modernizing and supporting the highway infrastructure
which, in turn, is essential for the growth in, and, delivery of, economic and
social services and developing national cohesion.
C. Project Objectives and Descriptio
3.       The project was designed as a follow-up to the First Highway
Maintenance Project (completion report number L210 August 1985) with the
primary objective of ensurinig adequate maintenance of Oman's road system
through atrengthening the Directorate General of Roads, (DGR) of the Ministry
of Communications (MOC), introducing improved maintenance planning, training
Omani staff and carrying out both force aczount and contract maintenance. The
Bank Loan 2084-0M of US$15 million was to finance about 442 of the project's
foreign exchange content and to be used to support (i) an asphalt overlay
program; (ii) procurement of road maintenance equipment; (iii) pavement survey
equipment; (iv) construction of two highway maintenance centres; and (v)
consultant services for maintenance planning and implementation, training,
highway planning, and general operational techn-cal assistance to the DGR and
the MOC.
D. Design and Organization
4.       The project was prepared by consultants employed under the First
Highway Project and Bank staff. There was very little Omani input apart from
budget guidelines and administrative arrangements. The absence of Omani input
was not due to lack of interest but the unavailability of technical
personnel. This situation still exists, and will not be corrected until (i)
the new University starts producing sufficient numbers of Omani engineering
and economics graduates (probably the early 1990's); and (ii) those Omanis'
with technical training and experience are attached to Government service
through adequate incentives and reach senior positions in Government.
Overseas training is essentially too limited to produce the critical mass of
graduates necessary for sustained derelopment. More Omani involvement during
preparation may have facilitated implementation and -nstitutional improvements
which are important aspects of the Third Highway Maintenance Project (Loan
2631-OM).
5.       With hindsight, greater attention should have been paid to
est!tblishing and training an Omani project unit fully versed in administering
Bank financed projects. Also, it is clear that although the authorities
accepted the need for resources to be devoted to maintaining the road network,
this realization was not based on an in depth understanding and, consequently,
a strong commitment did not exist. Whether this could have been corrected
during preparation is difficult to assess. The willingness to adopt new



-3-
policies, procedures and institutions, however advantageous, is not only
limited by the need to meet competing material needs but also by potential
conflicts with local traditions and social mores. The failure to give
adequate consideration to the socio-economic environment in project design
inevitably leads to a lack of project realism. In particular this leads to
over optimistic implementation schedules for the achievement of institutional
and policy objectives, and this may have been the case to a certain extent in
preparation of the Second Highway Maintenance Project. Progress in
introducing new ideas under these circumstances will be slow, and this should
be recognized and reflected by project design focussing on improving and
adapting existing procedures and policies. Thus, although the project was
technically well prepared and timely in its introduction, the time scale for
the achievement of objectives, especially institutional and policy objectives,
was overly optimlstic. There is still a need to devote resources to the
establishment and training of a dedicated project unit and this is now being
addressed under the Third Highway Maintenance Project.
E. Project Implementation
6.       The project largely achieved its primary objectives three years later
than planned. The three Postponements of the closing date were largely
occasioned by the need for the Government to make fundamental changes in
investment policy and reallocations within the budget. These adjustments were
required to counter the major decline in revenues following the fall in oil
prices which startred in 1984 and by 1986 were about US$11.00 per barr:'l or
38% of the 1986 price. Government planning is now based on the lower
benchmark oil price of US$15.00 per barrel. A maintenance plan was prepared,
maintenance of paved and unpaved roads was carried out to an acceptable
standard, the number of Omani plant operators and mechanics produced by the
training program was satisfactory, and equipment and other maintenance
faci'ities were procured. However, owing to the extremely limited numbers of
Omani technical personnel at all levels, under no circumstances could the
project be considered as leading to a self-sustaining program. To expect this
sustainability of project achievements after such a short time frame would be
utnrealistic. Only a series of repeater projects with gradually increasing
Omani professional and technical involvement would produce the necessary
conditions for sustainability. And, in this context, it should be planned to
design future projects in relation to graduate output by the Sultan Qaboos
University (only commencing engineering graduation in 1991) and practical
professional follow-up, such as is required by professional engineering,
accounting and economic institutions. The Third Highway Maintenance Project
is an opportunity to start this process but will   t be enough in itself as in
all practical terms Bank influence will cease aftet the revised completion
estimate of December 1992.
7.       There were four main problems related to project implementation and
achievement of objectives.
(a)  Government Support and Availability of Omani Personnel.  In
common with many other countries, the private commercial sector
and/or public sector enterprises are most attractive to the



-4-
Omani population. Consequently, although the importance of road
maintenance is recognized, Government support at a technical
level was insufficient due to inadequate qualified staff.
Buoyant oil revenues made it possible to buy services from
abroad to plan, design and supervise road works and, as a
result, support for building Omani institutions was weak.
Horever, following the Cecline in oil prices and Goveriment
re enues, guidelines concernin, Omanisation in all areas of the
economy are being implemeixted and future Bank involvement should
support this, although withir a realistic time frame.
(b)  Counterpart Funds.  The Omani budget process and its
relationship to project components financed from Loan proceeds
was not clearly understood by the executing Ministry of
Communications (MOC) and Directorate General of Roads (DGR).
This led on occasions to shortages of counterpart funds and;
consequently, delays in project implementation. Clearly the
training of an Omani Project Unit with personnel from the DGR,
Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Development Council, as
part of project preparation, would have done much to avoid these
difficulties. Frequent changes in senior persornel and the fact
that communicatious took place only at senior level between the
Ministry of Communications and the Ministry of Finance and
Economy have hindered a resolution of this problem. This is now
recognized by the Omani authorities and currently arrangements
are being made to send selected personnel to Washington for
training. Terms of reference for a project unit will also be
agreed.
(c) Maintenance Planning and Management. An important institution
building component of the project was tc have been the
introduction of a properly managed and planned road
strengthening and maintenance program. Such a program required
not only finance, equipment and personnel resources but also a
sound data base. In particular information was necessary on
pavement condition, traffic and the cost accounting of
maintenance operations. Unfortunately inadequate resources have
been allocated to collecting these data and, as a result,
maintenance planning and management remains unsatisfactory. The
senior management of implementing agencies is essentially
non-technical and, consequently, lacks an understanding of and
commitment to institution building. Measures to correct this
are being incorporated in the Third Highway Maintenance Project;
ongoing project restructuring following the decline in oil
prices and Government revenues is providing an opportunity to
obtain positive action in resolving this issue. Building up the
necessary skills and data base will, however, be a gradual
process.



-5-
F. Projeet Results
8.       The periodic maintenance by asphalt overlay was reduced from 127 km
on Ibri-Dank-Hafit road to 78 km from Dank to Hafit because of (i) a shortage
of local budget funds (see paragraph 6(c)); and (ii) an engineering assessment
of the remaining life of the Ibri-Dank Section. For similar reasons other
major road strengthening works were postponed and this, together with a 10%
devaluation of the Omani Rial vis a vis the U.S. Dollar is reflected in the
total project cost estimate falling from US$48.1 million at appraisal to
US$43.8 million at conpletion. In the years following the completion of the
Dank-Hafit, section, a bituminous surface treatment program for heavily
:rafficked unpaved roads was introduced by MOC and DGR and elements of this
program, selected on the basis of economic priorities with rates of return
rangin, from 20% to 70%, were financed by the uncommitted Bank funds for
asphalt overlay.
9.       The list of highway maintenance equipment and spare parts agreed
during negotiations was reviewed during the implementation of the project.
Modificatior.s were made to the numbers and types of highway maintenance
equipment to take account of increases in the MOC and DGR work programs caused
by expansion and upgrading of the road network, particula-ly for the
bituminous surface treatment works. In a country such as Oman with a newly
evolving road network it must be expected that changes will take place as
priorities altered in relation to the evolution of development objectives and
economic circumstances. The Bank responded well to these changes in the road
maintenance and improvement program whilst maintaining progress towards the
gradual achievement of policy and institutional objectives; such a response is
continuing under the Third Highway Maintenance Project.
10.      Since the Closing Date of the loan was extended by thr'c :rears to
achieve the completion of the project, the man-months of the consultants
providing technical assistance for highway maintenance management and
operation were correspondingly increased.
11.      The results of the changes in paragraphs 8, 9, and 10 above led to
reallocations of the loan proceeds to the various categories of the loan
(Part III, Section 4).
G. Reevaluation of Rates of Return and Benefits Sustainabilit-Y
12.      At appraisal it was estimated that routine and periodic maintenance
of Oman's road system for the years 1982-86 would require about US$26 million
(including contingencies); actual expenditure during project implementation is
reestimated at US$30 million although unit costs did not increase. The
increase of 15% is largely explained by the additional two years of
maintenance expenditures due to the project not being completed until December
31, 1988. Visual inspection of the road network indicates that the level and
quality of maintenance is largely satisfactory and meets the objectives set at
the time of appraisal. The main exceptions are some unpaved roads where high
levels of traffic make maintenance difficult and expensive, and some older
sections of paved roads where the original construction was inadequate for the
actual volume of heavy traffic. Both of these problems have been addressed



-6-
through an enlarged surface dressing programme under the project and are also
being addressed under the follow-up Third Highway Maintenance Project through
continued surface dressing and an improved design of the primary road network.
13.      At appraisal the project was estimated to yield an economic rate of
return of 4',%. This was based on a mix of routine and periodic maintenance
with ERR's of +100% and 29% respectively. The two factors to which the rate
of return would be sensitive were the unit cost of maintenance operations and
the level of traffic. Unfortunately, as described in paragraph 6 above, the
introduction and operation of an effective maintenance cost accounting system
and a program of traffic surveys has not yet been achieved. Consequently,
important data are lacking and a precise reevaluation of the Economic Rate of
Return is not possible. However, technical assistance, equipment procurement
and operation and labour costs, together with contract prices, indicate that
unit costs did not rise during the project implementation and, indeed, may
have declined. Furthermore, although urban traffic has decreased as a result
of the oil prices decline, recent rural/inter-urban traffic counts, in
association with proposed surface treatment works, indicate that the 7%
traffic growth rate estimated at appraisal has been maintained. Consequently,
we have no reason to suspect that the project as originally designed did not
yield an economic rate of return similar to the 44% estimated at appraisal.
The reallocation by the Government of part of the mai:'enance budget from
asphalt overlay works to double surface treatment, which was reviewed and
agreed to by the Bank, is not expected to reduce the overall rate of return.
The project economic rate of return (ERR), based on maintenance operations
including 70l of the technical assistance costs, has been reestimated at 48Z.
This is deriv2d from,
Asphalt overlay            ERR 25% - 142 of project cost;
Routine maintenance        ERR +100% - 37% of project cost; and
Double Surface treatment  ERR 30  - 26% of project cost.
It is now generally recognized that road maintenance projects yield higher
rates of return than most lending operations. Consequently, during project
preparation it is more important to focus on maintenance management and
productivity than on estimation of economic rates of return; this point was
made in the Second Highway Maintenance Project Appraisal Report.
H. Borrower Performance and Bank-Borrower Relationship
14.      Whilst the project was successful in meeting its physical objectives
and has served to improve the standard of road maintenance, a number of
lessons have been learnt concerning the Borrower's performance and the
Bank-Borrower relationship. These are interconnected and, based on them,
several recommendations are made.
(a) The First Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1441-OM) Project
Completion Report of October 1985 pointed out that it is
necessary when designing a project in a country at Oman's stage
of development to adopt a realistic time frame, especially as
regards institution building. Furthermore, institution building



- 7 -
and policy reforms should, to the extent possible, be based on
national and traditional structures and attitudes. Once this
has been achieved a programme of improvements can be
instituted. Such an approach requires close participation by
the Borrower in the preparation process and, in the event that
the Borrower has limited skilled manpower resources, it must be
accepted that preparation will take longer than normal and may
require an intensive training input. These needs clearly
existed in the Second Highway Maintenance Project but were not
necessarily obvious at the time of appraisal.
(b)  Project management had little continuity development of project
implementation skills and an understanding of technical needs
was limited. Bank supervision missions have attempted to
address this issue but the shortage of Omani personnel severely
limited training taking place. Under the Third Highway
Maintenance Project the Omani authorities have accepted the need
to train personnel in project design and management, and
arrangements are being made to implement an appropriate
program. To assist in this, we recommend that a country
oriented project training course is mounted which, in addition
to project implementation procedures, would focus on explaining
the benefits to be derived from institutional and policy reforms
and discussing their implementation.
(c) Many project implementation problems and delays could have been
avoided if there had been a properly staffed working level
project unit with representation from the Ministries of Finance
and Economy and Planning and agreed terms of reference and
responsibilities. The head of such a unit should have a
detailed knowledge of the project design and objectives as well
as a clear understanding of the Borrower's administrative and
financial procedures and Bank operations and Guidelines. The
formation of such a unit should normally be a condition of
negotiations. The training of personnel and establishment of a
project unit should be an agreed integral part of the project,
clearly covenanted with a detailed action plan for
implementation.
I. Consultin Services
15.      The technical assistance component of the project, comprising 232 of
the loan at time of appraisal, was increased during project implementation to
$5.7 million or 13% by project completion. The consultants undertook (i) day
to day assistance to the Directorate General of Roads (DGR); (ii) special
studies such as vehicle operating costs and developing maintenance cost
accounting ,yztems; (iii) planning assistance such as development of rive Year
Road Maintenance Plans and carrying out feasibility studies; and (iv) training
DGR maintenance personnel. In all this work the consultants performed their
duties competently and in a timely way, although the authorities have failed
to implement some of the consultant's recommendations; in particular the
traffic counting and cost accounting programs were put in abeyance for
financial reasons and are currently being addressed as part of restructuring



-8-
the Third Highway Maintenance Project. Technology transfer was mainly limited
to training mechanics, plant operators and road maintenance supervisors. This
programme was successful. Oman will continue to need a large technical
assistance input for some time to come, but with the beginning of   e output
of graduate engineers from Sultanate Qaboos University in 1991, se. ious
training of Omani professional Highway Sector staff will become possible.
J. Project Documnentation and Data
16.      Generally the Staff Appraisal Report and Legal Documents provided a
satisfactory framework for project implementation, although the Borrower
relied heavily on the consultant and Bank supervision missions for their
interpretation. Problems which have arisen have generally been related to
procurement procedures due to the Borrower's failure to follow Bank Guidelines
in a timely way. To a lesser extent, disbursemei.ts have presented some
difficulties; in particular, the Borrower believes that payments made in local
currency, which is freely convertible, should be accepted for reimbursement
(at the appropriate percentage given in the Loan Agreement) of the foreign
currency component and not considered as local expenditures. This last point
should be addressed in drafting future Loan Agreements.
17.      Generally the availability of data for preparation )f the PCR has
been acceptable but Central Files should maintain a copy of each supervision
report in a separate file.
K. Conclusion
18.      The project achieved its physical project objectives concerning a
higher level of road maintenance and the training of Omani operatives.
However, there was only limited progress on institutional objectives,
especially cost accounting, implementation of maintenance management systems,
data collection and the adoption of sound sub-projects evaluation techniques.
This in some part was due to Oman's economic difficulties following the
decline in oil prices but, mainly, to failure on the part of the senior
authorities in the executing agency to understand the importance of
strengthening institutions as a means of increasing the cost effectiveness of
operations. Bank involvement in the sector will be required for some time if
this issue is to be resolved. The ongoing Third Highway Maintenance Project
is addressing some of these problems and the need to recast the project and to
postpone completion date is being taken as an opportunity to impose a strategy
and action plan for achieving institutional objectives.
236SW



- 9 -
SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT, LOAN 2084-OM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 11 -
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report relates to the Second Highway
Maintenance Project for which a loan agreement (Loan 2084- OM)
of U.S.$ 13.0 million was signed between the Government of the
Sultanate of Oman and the International Bank For Reconstruction
and Development (The World Bank), on 31 March 1982.
This Report has been prepared by the executing agency of the
loan agreement,the Ministry of Communications (MOC), with the
cooperation of their Technical Assistance Consultant's Team.
Previous project completion reports were prepared by the World
Bank. Starting this Report, however, and in accordance with the
Loan Agreement terms, the preparation of such reports has become
the responsibility of the borrower through its executing agency-
the MOC.



- 12-
PROJECT DATA
SUMMARY SHEET
1.   LOAN  PARTIES
Loan Designation                  Second Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 2984- OH)
Borrower                          Sultanate of Oman
Lending Bank                      The World Bank,  Washington
Executing Agency                  Ministry of Communications- Oman
2.   LOAN  AMOUNTS                                        U.S.$ million
Total Project Cost
Loan Amount                                             15.0
Disbursed                                               15. n
Cancelled                                                Nii
Repaid  (Up to May 1989)                                 5.0
Value date of last amount received                   17 March 1989
3.   LOAN  HISTORY                                        Actual Date
Government's Application
Negotiations                                          9 Nov. 1981
Loan Agreement Date                                  31 Mar. 1982
Effectiveness Date                                    2 July 1982
Closing Date  (Original Plan 31 Dec. 1985)           31 Dec. 1988
Time Overrun                                          3 Years, 86%
4.   FOLLCW-UP  PROJECT                Third Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 2631- OM)
Amount                              U.S.$  30.0 million
-oan Agreement Date                       12 Apr. 1986
5.   LOCAL  CURRENCY
Local Currency                                  Omani Rial (RO)
Exchange Rate  (Up to Feb. 1986)               U.S.$ 1   RO 0.345
(Feb. 1986 to date)            U.S.$ I - RO 0.385
Fiscal year in Oman                       1 January - 31 December



- 13 -
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
SUMMARY SHEET
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(U. S. $)
2/
Date              Estimated              Actual             x
(end of)                                                 (actual/estim..)
D3c. 1982                 0                   0                 0
Dec. 1983             3,600,000.00            543,609.67       15.1
Dec. 1984            13,500,000.00          4,173,391.31       30.9
Dec. 1985            15,000,000.00          9,245,012.19       61.6
Dec. 1986            15,000,000.00         10,602,792.76       70.7
Dec. 1987            15,000,000.00         10,602,792.76       70.7
Dec. 1988            15,000,000.00         13,456,367.64       89.7
Mar. 1989            15,000,000.00         15,000,000.00    100.0
As per Estiamtes of the World Bank
Appraisal Report, Dec. 1981
21    Source :  Ministry of Finance & Economy



- 14 -
WORLD BANK MISSION VISITS
SUMMARY SHEET
Duration of       No. of         Date of
Item                    Visit          Persons        Aide Memoire i
Loans 1441-OM           22 May - 1 Jun.
& 2084-OM                1984            3            31 May 1984
Loans 1441-OH           9 - 23 Sep.
& 2084-OM                1984            2            23 Sept 1984
Loans 1441-OM           16 - 23 May           1            23 May 1985
& 2084-OM                1985
Loans 2084-OM           22 - 30 Sep.
& 2631-OM                1985            2            29 Sept 1985
Loans 2084-OM           8 - 20 Apr.
& 2631-OM                1986            2            20 Apr. 1986
Loans 2084-OM          19 -27 Mar.           2             26 Mar. 1987
& 2631-OM                1987
Loans 2084-OM           11 - 23 Oct.
& 2631-OM                1987            2            22 Oct. 1987
Loans 2084-OM            1 - 11 Mar.
& 2631-OM                1988            2            10 Mar. 1988
Loans 2084-OM           10 - 18 Oct.
& 2631-OM                1988            2            18 Oct. 1988
/ Submitted by the World Bank Mission
to the Government of Oman at the end
of each visit.



- 15 -
1.        INTRODUCTION
Co-operation With The World Bank
In the context of active co-operation between the Government of the
Sultanote of Oman and the World Bank with respect to reviewing the
highway system needs, its maintenance and manogement, this Second
Highway Maintenance Project (Loon 2084-OM) was agreed upon
between the two parties as a follow-up project of the First Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 1441-OM), which In turn was a follow-up
project of the Technical Assistance Project (Loon 985-OM). It Is
being followed-up by the third Highway Maintenance Project (Loan
2631-OM), as summarized below:
Project              Loan Agreement                Loan Closing
Date                   Date (Actual)
Loan  985-OM            16 May 1974                30 June 1985
Loan 1441-OM            20 Jun. 1977               30 June 1984
Loan 2084-OM            31 Mar. 1982               31 Dec. 1988
Loan 2631-OM            12 Apr. 1986               Current
1.2       The Road Network
Road transport in Oman is the major mode of transport linking the
capital Muscat and the other major cities and areas in the country
with each other and linking the Sultanate with the neighbouring
countries (see mop at end of Report).
The road systenm currently comprises 4247 km of paved roads and
12161 kms of unpaved tracks maintoined by the DGR (some further
6000 kms of tracks are maintained by others, e.g. Ministry of Defence
and P.D.O.).
The road system and vehicle fleet hove grown quite extensively since
1970, as shown in Table 2.1, Annex 2.



- 16-
2.        PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, OBJECTIVES AND  APPRAISAL
2.1       Project Identification
The need for, and the objectives and components of this Second High-
way Maintenance Project (Loon 2084-OM) were identified by both the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the World Bank as being a
necessary continuation of the Firs. Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 1441-OM) based on the studies of the General Technical Assist-
ance and Maintenance Management & Training Consultants employed
by the MOC under the First Hignway Maintenance Project.
This project Is the second World Bank financed project in the Sultanate
of Oman transport sector.
2.2       Project Objectives
As for the first Highway Maintenance Project, the overall objectives
of this Proejct were to protect the large investment in recent highway
improvements and sustain an efficient highway transport network to
serve present and future demand, including institution building within
the MOC whilst providing necessary assistance in expertise manpower
resources. In particular, the objectives of the Project were:
-   Providing assistance to the Directorate General of Roads (DGR)
to apply effective routine highway maintenance procedures
initiated under the First Project. Additionally, it would be
extended to the periodic highway maintenance activities of
gravel replenishment and asphalt overlays.
-   Providing consultant services to support the objectives of
sustained development of the DGR maintenance manogement and
training operations and the improvement of its planning function.



- 17 -
2.3       Project Appraisal
The Psoject was appraised by the World Bank following its mission
visit to Oman In June 1980 (3 persons) and an updating mission visit
in March 1981 (2 persons).
A Staff Approisal Rel ort Of A Second Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 2084-OM) dated C3ecemeber 8, 1981 was issued as a World Bank
document under Report No. 3191-OM.
Following the World Bank appraisal, and negotiations between the
Government of the Sultanate of Oman and the World Bank which took
place on 9 November 1981, the Second Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 2084-OM) Agreement was signed on 31 March 1982.
In order to translate the Project cbjectives Into action, the Second
Project Loan Agreement comprised the following Project categories
and description as shown In Schedules 1 % 2 of the Loon Agreement -
reproduced as Tables 1.1 & 1.2, Annex 1 of this Report.



- 18 -
3.     IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    General  Implementation
The Project was implemented through the MOC - the Executing
Agency - wlth the cooperation of the World Bank.
The implementoation of the project was slower than anticipated
and had overrun Its original cloolng date by three (3) years
(from 31 Dec. 1985 to 31 Dec. 1988). Compared to the original
Project period of 3.5 yeurs - from the effectiveness date
( 2 June 1982) to the original plan closing date (31 Dec. 1985) -
the overrun period Is 862.
The main reasons for this delay were the unexpected constraints
whIch were dictated by the fall In oil prices at the beginintg
of 1986, and whicl In turn affected some of the project componeats
and, consequently, the schedule of disburaements, as discussed
In the following paragraphs.
3.2    Highway  Maintenance
(a) Periodic asphalt overlay, maintenance and minor
Improvements :
This component was almost fully disbursed.
The actual disbursement was U.S.$ 3,7.71,338.33
as compared to U.S.$ 4,700,000.00 in the Loan
Agreement. (Refer to Table 1.3 Annex 1).
The disbursement from this category was for the overlay and
other rehabiltation work items on Ibri - Hafit Road. However,
only half of the roai (Dank - Hafit) was carried out due to
budgetery restraints and because engineering investigation for
the Ibri - Dank section showed that it could be delayed.
Due to urgent needs, part of the overlay budget allocations
was replaced by upgrading of tracks to double surface treatment
roads. (Refer to map at end of Report showing road projects
disbursed from W.B. 2nd Loan).
App,oval and tendering procedures resulted in delay in disburse-
ments from this component.



-19 -
(b)   Pavement data Collection equipment
This component was only partly disbursed.
The actual disbursement was U.S.J 37,795.53
as compared to U.S.$ 200,000.00.
(Refer to Table 2.2 Annax 2 for details).
A major constraint in acquiring further pavement
data collection equipment, and even utillzing
so,me of the equipment already purchased, such as
the Benkelman Beams, was the non-availability of
DGR staff to operate such equipment under-the
supervision of the Technical Assistance Consultant.
(c)   Civil Works for the Construction of Highway
Maintenance Certres :
This component was only partly disbursed.
The actual disbursement was II.S.$ .699,234.07
as compared to U.S.$ 1,000,000.00.
(Refer to Table 1.3 Annex 1)
The 1986- 1990 Government 5 -Year Plan inclutded
allocations for the construction of 7 workcentres
for a total sum of RO 0.925 million. Tender
documents for the construction of Birkat-Al-Mawz
Workcentre were prepared by the Technical
Assistance Consultant in 1985, and those for Saham
and Bahla in 1988.
The status of all workcentres in the Sultanate is
summarized in Table 2.3, Annex 2. No construction
of new werkcentres was carried out since 1986 due
to various constraints, some of which were the
allocation and surveying of landplots for the
proposed new workcentres and possibly certain
pressures on the budget.



- 20 -
3.3    Equipment and Spare Parts For Highway Maintenance
This component was fully disbursed, in addition to
U.S.$ 2.1 million reallocated to it from savings in
other components.
The actual disbursement was U.S.$ 6,228,427.32
as compared to U.S.$ 4,100,000.00.
(Refer to Table 1.3 Annex 1).
This reflects the expanding responsibility of the DGR
in maintaining the expanding paved and unpaved networks
in the Sultanate (para 1.2 of this Report). A direct
result was the expanding DGR needs in terms of the equip-
ment fleet to enable it to carry out its maintenance
tasks.
These tasks mainly cover : track maintenance and improve-
ments, earth shoulders maintenance, paved road light
maintenance, road marking, urgent road repairs, etc. Major
paved roads maintenance works, such as overlays and major
repairs are carried out by contractors.
The justifications for the purchase of new equipment
disbursed from this category were prepared by the Technical
Assistance Consultant and submitted to the World Bank in
accordance with the procurement requirements. Some of the
equipment in Tender No. 29/87 for equipment purchase did
not meet the Bankts procurement requirements and thus were
excluded from disbursement from Loan 2084-OM.
It is noted ti-at the DGR road marking team is doing well,
and the DGR is now contemplating the forming of a second
team utilizing the second road marking machine which was
not utilized so far.



- 21 -
Due to the budget constraints mentioned above, severe reductions in
the mechanical engineers were carried out in 1986 including 4 mecho-
nical engineers in the MOC/DGR as well as the mechanical engineer
provided by the'Technical Assistance Consultant. A fifth DGR
mechanical engineer later resigned. These reductionsihove resulted
in hindering any progress on the Plan of Action for tWEquipment
Department at the DGR with respect to Fleet Managemeit, and which
was submitted by the Technical Assistonce Consultant to the DGR In
1985.
3.4       Consultant and Indiddual Technician Services
This component was fully disbursed with additional allocation. The
actual disbursement was U.S. $ 4,263,204.75 as compared to U.S. $
3,500,000.00 (refer to Table 2.2 Annex 2 for details).
During the period of the Second Highway Maintenance Project, the
Technical Assistance Consultant (Dar Al Hondosah Consultants) were
entrusted with continuing the consultancy tasks as one consultant for
generol technical assistance, maintenance management ond training.
Two successive agreements with said consultant were signed, viz.
1 January 1983 - 31 December 1985 and 1 Januory 1986 - 31 December
1988, in oddition to the consultant's key personnel operating during
1982 to provide continuity of services.
The Consultant has fully fulfilled his tosks. The 1986-1990 Highway
Master Plan and the 1986-1990 Road Maintenance Plan were submitted
in 1985. The Highway Design Standards first prepored by the Consult-
ant and issued in 1980 were revised and re-issued in 1986. The General
Technicol Specifications and Standard Bill of Quantities were submitted
in 1988. The Cost Accounting System previously prepared by the
Consultant was under actual implementation since Januory 1985 cover-
ingl all the DGR cost centers.
Train3ng was going on well by the Consultant training staff and indivi-
dun! instructors utilizing the training programs designed by the
Consultant. In-house training covered training at the Training Center
for mechanics and road foremen, operators training in the field and



- 22 -
troining in the Road Training Production Unit (RTPU). Training in the
Southern Region was very limited due to logistic reosons. The In-house
troining Included 21 yeor courses for apprentice petrol and diesel
mechonics and numerous other courses of duratlons varying from one
mnonth to one week. The number of troinees who actually received
In-house troining during each year from 1983 to 1986 was as follows :-
Year                 1983    1984    1085    1986
Number of Trainees    138     330     629      452
(Refer to Table 2.2 Annex 2 for details)
Since 1986, however, and due to the known budget constraints, training
has come to a standstill. The services of the Consultant's training
staff and the Individual instructors were discontinued and the Trmining
Center closed for training. It should be not, 4. however, that with
respect to troining, the MOC strongly felt that mechanics, electricians
etc., should be recruited from graduates of the many vocatlonal
training centers in Oman rather than spending a lot of effort on train-
ing personnel from scratch. Six of the DGR apprentice mechanics
were enrolled in the vocatioial training centers and graduated in
December 1988. There are eight vocational training centers in the
Sultanate giving a variety of courses.(Refer to Table 2.2, Annex 2 for
details).
Also due to the above-mentioned budget constraints, the services of
the expatriate personnel of the DGR Cost Accounting Section were
terminated, the other staff transferred and the Section closed.
Furthermore, the last agreement with the consultant (1 January 1986 -
31 December 1988) was, for budget considerations, divided into three
yearly sub-agreements with only the four permanent staff continuing
their services during this period. Consequently, the tasks related to
the pavement and safety engineers and computer specialist were not
implemented.



- 23 -
It is hoped that under the Third Highway. Maintenance project it would
be possible to resume implementation of the Cost Accounting System,
to carry out training of personnel as and where necessary and to take
Implementation steps towards pavement studies, road safety and the
establishment of computerized road data base.
3.5      Related Activities
(i)    Axle Load Control
By Initiation form the MOC, a circular was Issued in 1985 by
the Ministry of Commerce & Industry to the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry ruling that no vehicles would be Im-
ported Into Oman that did not conform to the limits of
vehicle dimensions and weights contained In the MOC Highway
Design Standards. The Omani limits are almost Identical to
those later adopted by the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC)
for standardizing these limits within the GCC member states.
A comparison between the Omani and the GCC vehicle limit-
ations is shown In Table 2.4, Annex 2.
The MOC Is contemplating building of about 10 weighing
stations at the borders and other key points during the coming
Fourth 5-Year Plan (1991 - 1995).
(11)   Materials Testing
Testing of materials used In all roads constructed by contract-
ors is carried out In the respective project laborotory of each
project. For double surface treatment roads constructed by
the DGR, testing of moteriols is carried out at contractors'
laboratories against payment.



- 24 -
4.        ECONOMIC  RE-EVALUATION
The Appraisal Report of the Second Highway Maintenance Project
(December 8, 1981) staWed that
"The economic justification of some level of maintenonce effort is
apparent since protection of post capitol Investments by relatively
marginal annual expenditure is axiomatic......
This optimurm (level oF maintenance effort) would, therefore, represent
the level of least total VOC, routine and periodic maintenance costs
and reconstruction costs in terms of present worth at the projected
opportunity cost of capital.......
On the basis of this analysis 1/ the proposed program will give an
economic return of about 48% for unpaved roads, 36% for paved roads
and 44% overall, over present levels of maintenance over the next
five-ye"r period (1981-85)".
The Technical Assistance Consultants carried out detailed economic
analysis of the maintenance of paved and unpaved roads and presented
their findings in their Final Report of the 1986-1990 Road Maintenance
Plan, October 1985. These findings in sold Report included
"Following discussions with the World Bank It was agreed that
(I)  For paved road analysis the 'without project' case should be de-
fined as a continuation of routine maintenonce (patching mainly),
up to the polnt that the pavement would be considered to have
failed and then should include the discounted cost of reconstruct-
ion in the 'without project' costs. However, among the sections
of the network proposed for resealing, none reached the point
where reconstruction would be required over the 15 yeor project
life being considered.
(il)  For unpoved roads an assessment would be made of the economic
returns, assuming that the budget allocation in the 'without pro-
ject' case may be some 50 percent less, or 50 percent more,
thon the optimal".
1/ "Special Report Economic Analyses of the Proposed Maintenance
Program for Roods", Roy Jorgensen Associates, Inc., June 10, 1930.



- 25 -
The detailed economic analysis carried out In said Report for overlays
showed the economic return (IRR) of the proposed program investment
ranging from 44% to 11% with an average for the whole program of
24.8%.
For the malntenance of unpaved roads the Report concludes
an economic return of 100%.
For the Double Surface Treatment roads constructed In 1988 partly
under the Second Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2084-OM) the
specific economic analysis carried out for these projects by the Tech-
nical Assistance Consultant showed economic returns (FYRR) ranging
from 71% to 16% depending mainly on the traffic volume on each road.
An update of Highway User Costs was submitted by the Technical
Assistance Consultant In march 1985. Based on savings In vehicle
running costs between tracks and paved road, and for an assumed
traffic mix, the saving In VOC due to upgrading from track to paved
road Is 40.3 Baiza/Vehicle. km. (refer to Table 2.5 Annex 2).



- 26 -
5.        SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS
5.1       General Performance
The project was being Implemented quite satisfactorily by the end of
1985 in terms of implementing a modern highway malntenance system
especially in the field of cost accounting and training. By the original
closing date (31 December 1985), 61.6% of the loan was disbursed.
The budget constraints following the drop in oil prices In 1986 hove
caused disruption of the program In the field of pavem-nt and safety
studies, cost accounting Implementation and the establishment of a
computerised road data base.
5.2       The World Bank Role
In providing this loan and Its disbursements upon requests from the
Ministry of Finance And Economy, the World Bank has provided a
welcomed financiol assistance.
The main and more effective role, however, was the World Bank's
guidance and supervision - through its mission visits to Oman or its
headquarter contacts whenever necessary - towards developing and
Implementing the objectives of this Project.
5.3       Future Actlon
-   The need for a follow-up project including technical assistance
services was quite apparent. Consequently, the Third Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 2631-OM) Agreement was signed on
12 April 1986.
-   Resuming the implementation of the Cost Accounting System to
monitor the DGR activities is of high priority.
-   Steps for reinforcing the traffic data colleciton - such as the use
of consultants for implementing a traffic counting program for
paved roads, as suggested earlier by th' Technical Assistance
Consultant - may be contemplated by the MOC.



- 27 -
Steps for prompt tackling of road safety problems - such as the
forming of a road safety committee compr!sing the DGR, the ROP
and the T. A. Consultant, as suggested earlier by the Consultant -
may be contemplated by the MOC.
Steps for the prompt developing and implementation of a com-
puterized road data base - such as by calling tenders for the
provision of hardware and software for this purpose bosed on the
T. A. Consultont's computer specialist Report submitted In May
1985 - may be taken by the MOC.
Steps for comprehensive pavement studies, Including deflection
measurement, by separate consulting assignment for paved roads
In the Sultanote - especially the older ones showing signs of
distress - to be token by the MOC. It Is noteworthy that prelimi-
nary approval of the World Bank to finance such studles from the
loan was expressed pending the MOC request for such steps.



- 29 -
A N N E X      I



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 1. I
LOAN CATEGORIES AND ALLOCATED AMOUNTS
scFnntnz 1 
WitbdraW_l of the Froceedi of. theKLOeo
I.  1C .tZbiq  beldOw- etal forth th..;C.te2o.os6. of; item. to 6.
S     eo          the4proaetdS of .the*  Loau'thef*llcatio of the
am6tfrX 'o$X;th  tLoin to each Cateory and the  pefc*Ata8e of
exoendifur's for Itess oo to be tfinaced In *ach:Cste9orY:
Amount of the
Loao Allocated          2 of
(sipteoed in         Zxpenditures
CiteAoru                   Dollar aquslal!"t)   to be Financed
(1) Highway Maintenanco
(a)  periodic asphalt          4,700,000         70t
oviclal oaint
imptovements
(6)  Spvement data               200,000         95Z
collection
equipment
(c0  c1vil vofks for           1,000.000         5OS
;construction of
hithv ay-ainh -
hYaac%eeUteTU
(2)  Equtpaent and-space            4,100,000         9SS
Partcssfor highway
mailarenancl 
(3)  Consultant and Sndi-           3,,500,000        1002 of foreign
widual technician                                expenditures
servicce
(4)  ijosllocated                   1,500,000
TOTAL.        15.000.000
(reproduced from Loan 2084-OM Agreement)



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 1.2
9C88DML 2
Description of the Project
The -Project cosilat. of <the first tnr"e years of thw Bor-
rover's five-year highw*y metntenmnce program eod has the follow-
ing parts:
PART A:
1.   The carrying out of periodic maintenance and rehabilita-
tion-of existing roads.
2.   The proviolon of hlghway  iaiLutenance equipment and
spare parts.
3.   The constructlon,  rehabllitatl@o  and operation of two
highway maintenance workshops and the provision of
worksnup -and traIninS equipment.
4.   The constructIon.,ad operation of highway maintenance
conters and the provision of equipmnot therefor.
5.   The  provlaloi of piwemnt "data collection equipment.
6.   Ihe proilsion of hlghway q-intemance supplies.
Part a:  -The ciarryig out of routine smaintenace.
PAtT Cr  Sra in    K'ualteUmnce and Technical Assistance:
1.  the. tasroov"Ont of saintonauce,. adinsltrative and
oporatioee1 capabilities with the espietauce of consul-
;asBc anduteCh*tiaC .. a-eres.
2.  The is'lementation. of a coepr.benaliv  trainlng program
-for, staff. IcludInog  operatlon oi a trailain  center.
*     *      C     C
The Project tI  expected to be cou$leted  by Juno 30. 1985.
(reproduced from Loan 2084-OM Agreement)



- 33 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 1.3
LOAN AMOUNTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
BY CATEGORY
Original Loan      Actual Amount        S
Loan  Category                    Amount            Disbursed       Actual I
U.S.$ million      U.S.$ million    Original
1. Hwy. Maintenance
(a)  Periodic asphalt             4.700                3.771            80.2
overlay maint. &
minor lmprovement.
(b)  Pavement data                0.200                0.038            19.0
collection
equipment.
(c)  Civil vorks for              1.000                0.699           69.9    lit
construction of Hwy
Maint. centres.
2.  Equipment and Spare                4.100                6.229           151.9
Parts for Hwy Maint.
3.   Consultant & Individual           3.500                4.263           121.8
technician services
4.   Unallocated                       1.500                0.0               0.0
TOTAL              15.000              15.000           100.0



- 35 -
A N N E X       2



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.1
THE ROAD NETWORK AND VEHICLE FLEET
21               21~~~~J          2/  
Paved      Annual        Tracks   Ar.nual        Regist'      Annual
Year       Roads       Incr.        (DGR)    Incr.          Vehicles    Incr.
(KM)         2           Km.        2              Nr.         Z
1970           10         -          1,700      -              N.A.
1975          708      1396         3,300      18.8          31,468        -
1980        2,107        40         6,300       18.2        107,627       48
1985       3,565         14        10,230      12.5         247,e75    (delete)
1986       3,982         12        10,521       2.8         264,560    (delete)
1987       4,106          3        10,697        1.7        178,638        9.4
.1/                     Al
1988       4,247          3        12,161      13.7            N.A.
j/   Percent of increase shown is the Average Annual Increase for each
period ending with shown year.
B/   From General Traffic Statistics Publications - Royal Oman Police.
Includes Government vehicles.
The drop in the tigure shown for registered vebicles between 1986
and 1987 is due to the fact that the R.O.P. have shown in 1987 the
accurate figure for vehicles on the road (vehicles with renewed
registration plus the balance of the new and cancelled registraion
during 1987). Previously, registered, although non-renewed, vehicles
were shown. Hence the figures shown for 1985 & 1986 are considered
not representative of the true figure for Vehicles On The Road
and are, therefore, deleted.
..
B/   includes the roads in Musandam and Buraimi & Mahdha Areas which
were handed over to the MOC early 1988, hence the jump between 1987
and 1988, especially in track roads lengths.



- j9 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.2
TRAINING
OF DGR PERSONNEL
Includes : In-house training courses, 1983-1986
Vocational Training Centres In Oman.
.



Details oF Actuel Prvious TrfI!!22 Coureim
TrelnL    198s3
Course
No                            Type of Couree                                Date                      Lenoth             Students
I                  Apprentice Diesel Mechanic                       119/ 7/81.- 31/ 8/83             2 youn                8
2                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Petrol                   1/ 6/83 - 30f 6/83              1 month              6
3                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Diesel                   V/ 6/83 - 30O 6/83              1 month              6
I                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Patrol                   2/ 7/83 - 31/ U/3               1 month              9
5                   Upgrade Second Mechanice Diesel                   2/ 7/83 - 31/ 7/83              1 month              5
6                   Apprentice Petrol Mechanice                       1/ 8/83 - 31/12/85              26 yeers           i1
7                   Apprentice Diesel Mechanics                       1/ 8/83 - 31/12/85              2  yvorw             9
a                   Upgrade First Mechanice Petrol                    V/ 6/83 - 31/ 8/83              1 month              2
9                   Upgrade Flrst eschanies Diesel                    1/ 8/83 -31/ 13/83              1 month              3
10                   Upgrade Plant A  Equipment Electricians           1/ 8/83 - 31/ 0/83              1 xenth              2
11                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Petrol                   1/10/83 - 31/10/83              1 month              S
12                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Diesel                   1/10/83 - 31/10/83              1 month              5
13                   Motor Grader Operators Course                     5/1o/81 _ 24/10/81              3 weeks              5
1k                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Petrol                   1/11/83 - 30/11/83              1 month              8
15                   Upgrade Second Mechanics Dlesel                   111/83 - 30/11/83               1 month              5
16                   Motor Grader Operators Course                    12/11/83 -  4/12/83              3 weeke              6
17                   Upgrade First Mechenics Petrol                    1/12/83 - 31/12/83              1 smnth              2
i8                   Upgrade F!ret Mechenice Dlesel                    1/12/83 - 31/12/83              1 onth               3
19                   Reavy Vehicle Drivers Caurse                      4/12/83 - 11/12/83              1 wI,                6
20                   Motor Graders Operatorf Course                    6/12/83 - 24/12/83              3 weeks              7
21                   Upgrade Plant I Equipment Elactricians            1/12/83 - 31/UW83               1 wonth              2
22                   Heavy Vehicle Drivers Course                     13/12/83 - 19/n12/83             1 weak               3
23                   Heavy Vehicle Drivers Course                     21/12/83 -n 29/183               1 weak               3
24                   Work Center Supervisors Sn miner                  3/10/83                         1 day               18
Total              138      (1983)



Details of Actual Previous Training Courses
Course
No                                Type of Courae                                  Data$              Lengt              Students
I                     Apprentice Diesel Mechanics Course 1                 I/ 8/83 - 31/12/85       2* Veear              10
2                     Apprentice Patrol Mechanics Course 1                 1/ 8/83 - 31/12/85        21 yeare              9
3                     Heavy Truck Driver Course                            V/ 1/8* -  7/ 1/8*        1   ek                3
i                     Shovel Operators Course                              7/ 1/8a  - 26/ 1/8*      3  weeke               4
5                     Heavy Truck Driver Course                            9/ 1/84   15/ 1/84        1  kwe                6
6                     Heavy Truck Driver Course                           17/ V8k - 23/ 1/           I week                5
7                     Motor Grader Operators Course                       21/ 1/8& -  9/ 1/84        3  weeks              7
a                     Heavy Truck Driver Course                           25/ 1/8  - 31  1           1 week                5
9                     Shovel Operators Courer                             28/ 1/8*. - 16/ 2/8        3  weeks              4
10                     Heavy Truck Drivers Course                           2/ 2/8  -  8/ 2/8*        1 wek                 6
11                     Upgrade SeconOd Mchanics Diesel                       t/ V84 - 29/ 2/84        * menth               3                                                 .
12                     Upgrade Second Mechanice Patrol                      V/ 2/84 - 29/ 2/84        1 month               1
13                     Motor Grader Operators Course                       11/ 2/84 - 29/ 284         3  weeke              7
11                     Shovel Operators Course                             18/ 2/8* -  8/ 3/84        3  weks               3
15                     Heavy Truck Drivers Course                          19/ 2/84 - 25/ 2/84        1  Week               6
16                     Upgrade Second Mchanic. Diesel                       3/ 3/84 - 29/  3          t I month             3
17                     Upgrade Second Mechanic Petrol                       3/ 3/8* - 29/ 3WM         I month               7
18                     Motor Grader Operatore Course                            3/84. - 22/ 3/&*      3  wineke             6
19                     Road Foremn Supervisors Course                     1t/ 3/8* - X0  3/84         3  weeks             13
20                     Shovel Operators Course                             10/ 3/84 - 1t/ 4/84        3  weeks              3
21                     Motor Grader Operators Course                       2'/ 3/84 - 12/ 4/84        3  weeks              6
22                     Shovel Operatore Course                             31/ 3/84 - 19/ 4/aI        3  weks               3
23                     Road Foremen Supervisors Course                      1/ 14/84 - 21/ 41/        3  weese             12
24                     Upgrade First Mechanice Diesel                       1/ 4/84 - 30/ 1/84        1 mfth                6
25                     Upgrade First Mechanics Patrol                       1/ 1/84 - 30/ 1/9*        1 month               2



TABLE 2 (contd)
Details of Actul Provioun TrainIne Courees
Tralnina 194
Course                                                                                                                         Number of
No                                  Typr ot Courtie                                    Dates                  Length         Students
26                       Upgrade Plant 2 Vehicle Electriceian                      1/4/84-30/ 4S84            1 month           2
27                       Motor Grvder Operators Cnuree                            14/4/84- 3/ 5/84            3 weeks           6
26                       Shovel Operators Course                                  21/4/t84-O/ 5/84            3 wueks           3
29                       Motor Grader Operators Course                             5/5/84-24/5/84             3 weeks           8
30                       Shovel Operators Course                                  12/5/84-31/ 5/81            3 weke            4
31                       Roller Operators Course                                  12/5/84-18W  5/84           1 week            I
32                       Road Foremen Supervisors Course                          23/4/84-14t 5/84            3 weeks          10
33                       Road foremen Supervisors Couree                          10/3/84-29/3/84             3 weeke           7
34                       Work Center Supervisors Seminar                           7/4/84-12/ 4/84            1week            18
35                       Shovel Operators Course                                   4/8/84-23/ 8/84            3 weeks           4
36                       Upgrade Second Mechanics Patrol Course 2                  4/8/84-30/ 88S4            1 enth           4 
37                       Shovel Operators Course                                  25/8/84#-13/ 9/84           3w eks            2                                          w
38                       Apprentice Diesel Course 2                                1/9/84-30/ 3/87            2? yeers         l                                           1
39                       Apprentice Petrol Course 2                                1/9/84-30/ 3/87           2? yeers          10
40                       Upgrade Second Mechanics Diesel                          6/10/84-31/10/84            1 month           4
11                       Upgrade Second Mechanics Petrol                          6/1D/84-31/10/84            I month           5
42                       Upgrade Second Mechanics Diesel                          3/11/84-29/11/84            1 month           6
43                       Upgrade Second Mechanics Petrol                          3/11/84-29/11/84            1 month           6
1..                      Upgrade First Mechanics Diesel                           1/12V84-27/12/84            1 month           3
145                      Upgrade First Mechanics Petrol                           1/12/84-27/12/84            1 month           2
1.6                      Upgrade Plant & Vehicle Electricians                     1/12/84-27/12/84            1 month           2
1.7                      Upggrade Second Mechanics Petrol Course 2                1/12/84-27/12/84            1 month           4
48                       Road Malntenance Patching Group                          De" Pending                                  38
19                       Road Maintenance Surface Treatment Group                 Date Pending                                 25
Toal            330      (1984)



Details of Actual Prwlioup  Trinina Caureem
Twbininfl wgss
Course             Type of Course                         Date             Length                  Number ot
No.                                                                                               Suet
1        Apprentice Diesel Mechanics             1/8/83 - 31/12/35  21 years                        9
2        Apprentice Petrol Mechanics              1/8/83 - 31/12/85  21 years                      10
3        Apprentice Diesel Mechanics            11/8/84 - 31/12/86  21 years                        9
4        Apprentice Petrol Mechanics             11/8/84 - 31/12/86  2i years                       5
5        Apprentice Diesel Mechanics              3/8/85 - 31/12/P7  21 years                       4
6        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Petrol 1           2/2/85 - 28/2/85   3 weeks                        9
7        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Petrol 2           3/8/85 - 29/8/85   3 weeks                        9
g        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Petrol 3           2/3/85 - 28/3/85   3 weeks                        8
9        Upgrade 2nd mechanics Petrol 4           1/9/85 - 26/9/85   3 weeks                        8
'0        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Petrol 5          6/4/85 - 25/4/85   3 weeks                         4
11        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Petrol 6         5/10/85 - 31/10/85  3 weeks                         4                                             t
12        Upgrade 1st Mechanics Petrol 1          4/5/85 - 30/5/85   3 weeks                         5                                             $
13        Upgrade 1st Mechanics Petrol 2         2/11/85 - 28/11/85  3 weeks                         5
14        Plant & Vehicle Electricians 1          4/5/85 - 30/5/85   3 weeks                         2
iS        Plant & Vehicle Electricians 2         2/11/85 - 28/11/85  3 weeks                         2
16        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 1          2/2/85 - 28/2/85   3 weeks                         4
17        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 2          3/8/85 - 29/8/85   3 weeks                         4
18        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 3          2/3/85 - 28/3/85   3 weeks                         4
19        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 4           1/9/85 - 28t9/85   3 weeks                        4
20        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 5           6/4/85 - 25/4/85                                  5
21        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 6         5/10/85 - 31/10/85                                  5
22        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 7           9/5/85 - 30/5/85                                  4
23        Upgrade 2nd Mechanics Diesel 8         2/11/85 - 28/11/85                                  4
24        Upgrade 1st Mechanics Diesel 1           1/6/85 - 27/6/85                                  6
25        Upgrade 1st Mechanics Diesel 2         5/12/85 - 26/12/85



Details of Actual Previous Training Csurve
Tralninn 1985
No.                   Type of Course                               Date                 Length                Number of
Students
26         Area Supervisors                               19/1/85 - 24/1/85            1 week                     8
27         Road Foremen  1                                 2/2/85 - 14/2/85           2 weeks                    13
28         Road Foremen  2                                16/2/85 - 28/2/85            2 weeks                   14
29         Road Foremen  3                                 2/3/85 - 14/3/85           2 weeks                    12
30         Road Foremen  4                                16/3/85 - 28/3/85           2 weeks                    10
31         Motor Grader Operator 1                         2/2/85 - 14/2/85           2 weeks                     5
32        Motor Grader Operator 2                         16/2/85 - 28/2/85           2 weeks                     7
33         Motor Grader Operator 3                         2/3/85 - 14/3/85           2 weeks                     7
34         Motor Grader Operator 4                        16/3/85 - 28/3/85           2 weeks                     7
35        Motor Grader Operator 5                         30/3/85 - 11/4/85           2 weeks                     6
36        Motor Grader Operator 6                         13/4/85 - 25/4/85           2 weeks                     7
37         Motor Grader Operator 7                        27/4/85 - 9/5/85            2 weeks                     7
38         Motor Grader Operator 8                        11/5/85 - 23/5/85           2 weeks                     7
39         Motor Grader Operator 9                        25/5/85 - 6/6/85            2 weeks                     6
40         Motor Grader Operator 10                        8/6/85 - 20/6/85           2 weeks                     6
41         Front-End Loader 1                             10/8/85 - 22/8/85           2 weeks                     4
.2         Front-End Loader 2                             24/8/85 - 5/9/85            2 weeks                     4
43         Front-End Loader 3                              7/9/85 - 19/9/85           2 weeks                     4
44         Front-End Loader 4                             21/9/85 - 3/10/85           2 weeks                     4
45         Front-End Loader 5                             5/10/85 - 17/10/85          2 weeks                     4
46         Front-End Loader 6                             19/10/85- 31/10/85          2 weeks                     4
47        Front-End Loader 7                              2/11/85 - 14/11/85          2 weeks                     4
48        Heavy Truck Driver 1                            10/8/85 - 15/8/85           1 week                      4
49         Heavy Truck Driver 2                           17/8/85 - 22/8/85            1 week                     4
50         Heavy Truck Driver 3                           24/8/85 - 29/8/85            1 week                     4



Detaish of Actual Previoua Training Courase
Traininq 1985
Nou              Type of Course                             Date                  Length                  Sudber on
5          Heavy Truck Driver 4                       31/8/85 -  5/9/85          1 week                        4
52         Heavy Truck Driver 5                        7/9/85 - 12/9/85          1 week                        4
53         Heavy Truck Driver 6                       14/9/85 - 19/9/85          1 week                        4
54         Heavy Truck Driver 7                       21/9/85 - 26/9/85          1 week                        4
55         Heavy Truck Driver 8                       28/9/85 - 3/10/85          1 week                        4
56         Heavy Truck Driver 9                       5/10/P5 - 10/10/85         1 week                        4
57         Heavy Truck Driver 10                      12/10/85 - 17/10/85        1 week                        4
58         Heavy Truck Driver 11                      19/10/85 - 24/10/85        1 week                        4
59         Work Centre Supervisors Seminar            7;9/85   - 12/9/85         1 week                       10
60        Surface Treatment Team                      6/4/85   - 18/4/85         2 weeks                      12
61        Asphalt Maintenance Patching Team           20/4/85  - 2/5/85          2 weeks                      37
62         Guard Rail and Reflector Team 1            4/5/85   - 9/5/85          1 week                       11                                     4-
63         Guard Rail and Reflector Team 2            11/5/85  - 16/5/85         1 week                       12
64         Sign and Curb Team                         18/5/85  - 23/5/85         1 week                       16
S5        Culvert Cleaning Team 1                     25/5/85  - 30/5/85         1 week                       17
i6        Culvert Cleaning Team 2                     1/6/85   - 6/6/85          1 week                       16
67         betterment Track Roads  1                  8/6/85   -  13/6/85        1 week                       17
68         Betterment Track Roads 2                   15/6/85  - 20/6/85         1 w^sk                       23
69         Betterment Track Roads 3                   3/8/85   - 8/8/85          1  asek                      56
70         New Track Construction  1                  10/8/85  - 15/8/85         .week                         7
71         New Track Construction  2                  17/8/85  - 22/8/85         1 week                       13
72         New Track Construction  3                  24/8/85  - 29/8/85         1 week                       11
73         Primary English  1                         1/1/85   - 31/12/85        1 year                       18
74         Primary English  2                         1/1/85   - 21/12/85        1 year                       19
75         Road Marking Team                          18/10/85 - 31/12/85        21 months                     7
76         Road Training Production Unit              1/12/85  - 31/12/85        1 year                   various
Total         629      (1985)



Details ot Actual Previous Training Courses
Trainino 1986
Course                              Type of Course                            Oats of                         Length of           Number of
Nio.                                                                        Course                         Course               Students
Apprentice Petrol Mechanics               11/8/84 - 31/12/86                  2* Years                    8
2                       Apprentice Petrol Mechenics                1/3/86 - 31/ 8/88                   2Y Yeara                   6
3                       Apprentice Dieeel Mechanies               11/8/84 - 31/12/86                   26 Years                   B
4                       Apprentice Diesel Mechanics                3/8/85 - 31/12/87                   21 Years                   4
S                       Second Mechanics Patrol No. I             15/2/86 -  6/ 3/86                    3 Weeks                   5
6                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 2              8/3/86 - 27/3 /AS                    3 Weeks                   5
7                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 3             29/3/86 - 17/ 4/86                    3 Weeks                   4
a                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 4             19/4/86 -  8/ 5/86                    3 Weeks                   3
9                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 5             10/5/86 - 29/ 5/86                    3 Weeks                    2
10                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 6             13/9/86 -  2/10/86                    3 Weeks                   3
11                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 7              4/W86 - 23/10/86                     3 Week4
12                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 8            25/10/86 - 13/11/86                    3 Weeke                   3
13                       Second Mechanics Petrol No. 9            13/ 9/86 -  2/10/86                    3 Weeks                   5
14                       Second Mechanics Petrol No.10             4/10/86 - 23/10/86                    3 Weeks                   5
15                       Second Mechanics Petrol No.11            25/10/86 - 13/11/86                    3 Weeks                   4
16                       Vehicle and Plant Electricians No.1   15/11/86 -  4/12/86                       3 Weeks                   2
17                       First Mechanics Petrel  No. 1            26/ 7/86 - 11/ 8/86                    3 Weeks                   2
18                       First Mecharics Petrol  No. 2            23/ 8/86 - t1/ 9/86                    3 Weeks                   2
19                       Second Mechanics Diesel No. 1            15/ 2/86 -  6/ 3/86                    3 Weeks                   4
20                       Second Mechanics Diesel No. 2             8/ 3/86 - 27/3/86                     3 Weeks                   4
21                       Second Mechanics Diesel No. 3            29/ 3/86 - 17/ 4/86                    3 Weeks                   4
22                       Second Mechanics Diesel Ao. 4            19/ 4/86 -  8/ 5/86                    3 Weeks                   4
23                       Second Mechanics Oieael No. 5            10/ 5/86 - 29/ 5/86                    3 Week.                   3
24                       Second Mechanics Diesel No. 6            26/ 7/86 - 14/ 8/86                    3 Weeks                    2
25                       Second Mechanics Diesel No. 7            23/ 8/86 - I1/ 9/86                    3 Week                     4



Details of Actual Previous Trainina Course.
Trainina 1986
Course
Iva.                             lype of  Course                                Date oa                        Length of   Number of
Course                        Course       Studente
26                           Second Mechanice Diesel No. 8               13/ 9/86 -  2110/86                  3 Weeks           4
27                           Second Machbnies Diesel No. 9                 /110/86 - 23/10/86                 3 Weeks           4
28                           First Mechanics Petrol  No. 3               22/11/86 - 11/12/86                  3 Weeks           2
29                           First Mechanics Petrol  No. 4               13/12/86 - 31/12/86                  3 Weeks           2
30                           Mechanics Oieae: Pumps                      25/15/86 - 31/12/86                 10 Weeks           2
31                           Motor Grader Operators Beginere             1/ 2/6 - 27/ 2/86                   1 Month           3
32                           Motor Grader Operators  No. 1                1/ 3/86 -  6/ 3/86                  1 Week            3
33                           Motor Grader Operators  No. 2                8/ 3/86 - 13  3/86                  1 Week            4
34                           Motor Grader Operstors  No. 3               15/ 3/86 - 20/ 3/86                   1 weak           4
35                           Motor Grader Operators  No  . 4             22/ 3/86 - 27/ 3/86                   * Week           3
36                           Moto, Grader Operators  No. 5                5/ 4/86 - 10/ 3/86                   1 Week          4F
37                           Mo.or Grader Operators  No. 6               12/ 4/6 - 17/ 4/6                     1 Week           4                                    f
38                           Motor Grader Operators  No. 7               19/ 4/86 - 24/ 4/86                  1 Week            4
39                           Motor Grader Operators  xo. 8               26/ 4/86 -  1/ 5/86                   1 Weak           4
40                           Motor Grader Operators  No. 9                3/ 5/86 -  8/ 5/86                   1 Week           3
41                           Motor Grader Operators  No.10               1O/ 5/6 - IS/ 5/86                   1 Week           3
42                           Motor Grader Operators  No.tt               17/ 5/86 - 22/ 5/86                   1 Week           3
43                           Motor Grader Operators  No.12               24/ 5/86 - 29/ 5/86                   1 Week           4
44                           Motor Grader Operators  No.13               31/ 5/86 -  S/ 6/86                   I Wek            5
45                           Motor Grader Operators  No.14                2/ 8/86 -  7/ 8/86                   1 Weak           5
46                           Front End oad  Operator No.1                 9/ 8/86 - 14/ 8/96                   1 Week     t
47                           Front End Lodtr Operator Uo.2               26/ 7/86 - 31/ 7/86                   1 Week           4
48                           Front End toederOperator No.3               23/ 8/96 - 28/ 8/86                   I Week           4
49                           Front End Loader lerator No 4               30/ 8/86 -  4/ 9/86                  t Week            3
50                           Front End Loader Opertor No 5                6/ 9/86 - II/ 9/86                   1 Week           4



Details of Actuel Previous Trainino Course,
Training 1986
Course
No.                                  Type of Couree                             Date ot                   Length of             Number of
tour"                    Coureo                Studente
51                          Front End Loader Operator No. 6            13/ 9/86 - 19/ 9/86                1 Ma n4
52                          Front End Loader Operator ft. 7            20/ 9/66 - 25/ 9/86                1 Week                  4
53                          Front End Loader Operator No. 8            27/ 9/86 -  8/10/86                1 Week                  3
54                          Front End Loeader Operator No. 9           11/10/86 - 23/10/86                1 Mek                   3
55                          Road Foremen Treining No        1           5/ 4/86 - 17/ 4/86                2 Weaks                 7
56                          Road Foremen Training       No  2          19/ 5/86 -  I/ 5/86                2 Weeks                 7
57                          Rood Foremen Training       No  3          10/ 5/86 - 22/ 5/B6                2 Meeks                 5
58                          Road Foremen Training       No  4.          2/ 8/86 - 14/ 8/86                2 Wees                  7
59                          Road Foremen Training       No  5          23/ 8/66 -  4/ 9/t6                2 Weeks                 6
60                          Road Surface Treatment Teem                24/ 5/86 - 29/ 5/86                1 Mask                  5
61                          Asphalt Road Patching Team                 31/ 5/86 -  5/ 6/86                1 week                 39
62                          Guard Rail and Reflector Team No 1         i4/ 6/86 - 19/ 6/86                1 Week                 14
63                          Guard Rail and Reflector Teem No 2         21/ 6/86 - 26/ 6/86                1 Week                 14
64                          Sign and Curb Teom                         28/ 6/B6 -  3/ 7/86                1 Week                 14
65                          Culvert Cleaning Team           No 1        S/ 7/86 - 10/ 7/ef1 ibeek                                21
66                          Culvert Cleaning Team           No 2       12/ 7/86 - 17/ 7/86                1 Week                 26
67                          Track Road Bettereent Team    no 1         19/ 7/86 - 24/ 7/86                1 eek                 12
68                          Track Road Betterment Teem    No 2         26/ 7/86 - 31/ 7/86                1 Mek                 12
69                          Trecl Road Betterment Tam    No 3           6/ 9/86 - 11/ 9/86                1 Webk                 12
70                          Road Marking Toer                           1/ 1/86 - 31/12/86                1 eYr                  7
71                          Road Training Produotion Unit               1/ 1/86 - 31/12/86                1 Yoer              Venrous
72                          New Romd Canstruetlon Ter       No 1       13/ 9/86 - 1S/ 9/86                1 Week                 19
73                          New Road Conetrutlon Tem    No 2           20/ 9/0S - 25/ 9/86               1Mt:f                  15
74                          New Road Conatruction Teo       No 3       27/ 9/86 -  2/10/86                1 Week                  7
Toal          452       (1986)



- 50 -
LIST OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTRES
IN THE SULTANATE OF OMAN
Darsait  Vocational  Training Centre
A'Seeb   Vocational  Training Centre
Saham    Vocational  Training Centre
Ibri     Vocational  Traiuing Centre
Ibra     Vocational  Training Centre
Sur      Vocational  Training Centre
Nizwa    Vocational  Training Centre
Salalah  Vocational  TRaining Centre
All Vocational Training Centres have similar courses, with slight
variations in specialization. Such as for 'Structures', Darsait
Centre gives architectural drawing, while A'Seeb rentre gives con-
struction foreman training.
Students are accepted, who have finished the Preparatory level,
and study for 3 years in the Vocational Centre.
Average number of students in each class in each of the Centres ir
around '20 students.
(Information obtained from Directorate of Students and Examination
Affairs, Ministry of Education & Youth)



- 51 -
DETAILS  OF  COURSES
AT
DARSAIT VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTRE
Number  of  Students
Course                         1st Year   2nd Year   3rd Year
Mechanic - Car                     25          24         20
Mechanic - General
(Welding, Filing,
Sheet-metal, etc.)                25          17        10
Electrical                         20          20         17
Land Surveying                     -           25        20
Structures
(Architectural Dwg)                25          24        13
Administration*                    25          25        25
Accounting *                       25          25        25
*(Arabic Typing, English Typing, Accounting)
(Information obtained from the Director of the Centre for Courses
and students as in Nov., 1988).



ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.3
D.G.R. WORKCEN1TES  STATUS  BY  1983*
A R E A              WORK CFNRE           EXISTING FACILITIES              LENGTE OF TRACK            REMARKS
ROADS (KM)
Qurlyat                 Qurlyat                 Nev (1986)                     513.5
Batinah 'A'             Masana'a                Old (inadequate)               548
of                  A'Rustaq               Old (inadequate)                758.1
Batinah 'B'             Saham                   Old (.nadequate)               649.5                                           1
(New Design completed)                                                         A
Sohar                  Nev (1,986)                     726                 Constructed under 2nd Loani
Interior 'A'            Birkat Al Mauz          Old (inadequate)               366
(New Design completed)
Bahla                  Old (inadequate)               635
(New Deeign completed)
Samail                 Old (inadequate)               308
to                  Adam                   New (1981)                      223
Al Dhahira              Ibri                    New (1986)                     681                 Constructed under 2nd Loan
to                  Khadal                 Old (inauequate)                670
Interior 'B'            Haima                  Nev (1982)                     1357.4 (Remote Area)
Shariqiyah 'A'          lbra                   New (1984,                      434                 Constructed under 2nd Loan
Samad A'Shan           Old (inadequate)               446
A'Taiyesn              Old (inadequate)                292



ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.3 (cont4.)
D.G.R. WORKCENTRES STATUS BY 1988*
A R E A                    WORK CENTRE            EXISTING FACILITIES         LENGTH OF TRACK         R E M A R K S
ROADS (tH)
Sharqiyah 'B'                Al Kamil                 Old (inadequate)            719
Masira laland                Masira                   Old (inadequate)            196
Mahdha                       Buraimi                  Rented Building             589.3
Musandam                     Khasab                   Old (inadequate)            241.5
of                      Al Baya'a                 Old (inadequate)           100
Southern Region              Salalah                  Old (inadequate)           1320.8                Nev centre existing
In Thamrit
* Upto October 1988
(Reproduced from the 1989 Maintenance Programme,
Dec. 1988)



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.4
VEHICLE DIMENSIONS AND WEIGHTS
OMANI            G CC PROPOSED
I T E M             STANDARDS        STANDARDS            REMARS
Max. Height              4.2 m                4.2 m
Max. Width                2.6 m               2.6 m
Max. Length :
- Single Truck          12.0 m               12.5 m
- Truck + Semi Trlr.   17.0 m                18.0 m
- Combination           20.0 m               20.0 m
Max. Weights
- Single Axle           13.0 T               13.0 T
- Front Axle                                  8.0 T
- Tandem Axle           14.7 - 21.0 T        14.7 - 21.0 T   Spacing 0.9- 2.5 m
- 3 Axles
dist.  3.0m                                26.0 T
> 3.Om                               32.0 T
- Wheel load                                  6.5 T
Max. Combination        45.0 T               45.0 T



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.5
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
The VOC used in this evaluation are based on the
Update of Highway User Costs, March 1985 prepared
by DAI1.  Figures 4.1 thru '1.4, which give the
breakdown of VOC for sedan, p)ickuIp, 7-tou truck
and 18-ton truck, are. repruduccd for easier
reference. The savings in VOC due to the paving
of an unpaved road is considered as the difference
between the paved road and track road for the
running costs only (sub-total rows 1-5).  A traffic
mix for the purposes of this estimate is assumed
to be as follows:
50% saloon cars,      40% pickups,       7% 7-T truck,
3%  18-T truck
The weighted average in VOC savings per veh.km is
therefore, as follows:
vehicle              v o c             veighted
type      X     track  paved          saving
Saloon:   50% x (63.2 - 32.4)        =  15.4
Pickup:   40% x (76.2 - 40.0)           14.5
7Tnck      7% x(149.1 - 66.5)    =   5.8
Truck 
18-Ton    3% x (263.1 - 110.0)   =   4.6
Truck
Total         40.3 Bz/veh.km
(reproduced from both Economic Analyses of DBST Roads
construction in 1988 & 1989)



MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS  (zt/kmi                                                         F    4.1
(ON LEVEL TANGENT ROAD SECTIONF
DATSUN 200-L SEDAN
hILlS uP04130   Fig ,huaA zeo5 *i u tS                                                                                                             E 4f -
-                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ASPHALT PAVED ROAD 'A'*6               GRAVEL-ROAD    'a.TAKR                                     D4   *
VEHICLE      _     ASSUMING VER? G000 SURF"CE CONDTIO              ASSUMIN  @0@Wl'*  SURPACS @@w@             AsSING VzIROO1, UI1 VAC0CNTION
-I5   OPERATING  OS                   OPERA tIG SPEED (ktm.l                      I   -    'CO _P         k*i:        ,    t
ITEM           Xt | 40  6 50 | 60 | 70    80   90 S100   20    30   40    50   601 10    60 e                0    20    30) 40    "  I 60!7t.'
"71 MOTOR FUEL                  1I               I          _    .  
L40TOR FUEL                06       4  o        -0    *-   104   Ut   Ilo   SI")  US we       4 *      I" - t   ItO   s4.    g    a-? 2   tn st-'  It*  124
2   MOTOR  IL1   t-t                     t    .-      3.3 t 4    t.t  t-l   1.9  I-*    I-    ii 9    -    I                  as   as   all, a. sa - all
3   TIRE WEAR             0-   o&@   *-t   1-4    t r      0   t3.    3t9   1.4  33    9-4   4.3, _4 _  6         6-2   I2   t.4   3-4  4.9       3 0   53'*
i                                                          _________                                                                          !
4   D OEPRECtATION        q Z  1t6.0 |It-5       110.  10 .1   *-  9*4  V4 0   WI  19-l  1nsa  P-11  369   e.g  a..  39.5 *t,  a-    aat  24.1  33 5O
o MAINTENANCE             o._ _ _  o o4   n4   t O    17 -0 -                                            J-.   5.6   MO   14.4  6.4 i? 4    as5 10.7  iVl
t--                             ____I                                                                    I     I - -                    I _ _ tIJ
RUNNING COSTS                                           so? 0  |,4  359  47*  3  4 *|*0 444   4     *9 * 49-6  53-.  |4.3  we * 7 *    7  *3*0  *09-   5?  | 0.0
SUOrOTAL MtOWS i-S        *ea
5   ~ -                        -+                                               -. _    .      _I   I_      _ _        t                         _
6   INTEREST              6.3   4.0   5?    1      5 5  531  4 .5  4.2   4  6 63   6.0   S.?   539   5.3   3. 9              4.4 I6  6 3  6.0    6?7   559S 53
7   INSURnCWE             *.     *     .1   ?m   T2.5   ? .I   6.9  6*?   9.4  3.9   596   6.1   769  7.5  12.3   5.9   9 4"  9.9  9.5   9.3   7.9    .
IICENCIG AND                                                        __ I  _ 1   .  .  i                              _    3
REGISTRATION                                                                                  -               -                                          -
9   ORIVER'S  AGES        54-.   3.*4  50.1   4&0  44.-  44 -i.  43-6  43. *0 STo 64.9  a.4    30   444   44.3  44.3  0.4  52.4  544   5.4  30-.  494   <. 1
to  COMMERCIAL
VEHICLE OVERHIEADS _  |        |         -      - _  _ _  _                    - _  _            - _          - _                - _  _ _
FIXED COSTS
SUSTOrAL ROWS            32.6    3   15 3      155  34 sg.4   .0  '33  i.g  104  32.3  36.3  1S9  34.0  14.   Wi6  gg.g  |-..  32.3 i.    as  14.9 '6-4
TOTAL RUNNING 9 FE                                           1                                                                                                      4e
COSTS ROWS 0-            4S             '        1 44.?  44.3  4440  44. *  44.6 46.2  46?  65-   4.0  63-31  34    .9.9  493   69.4  35.2  13.6  214. !?   . .
MoISs  *6.0.* o .000 at.   I tS 8.90   I  0.89 US C99si.'.                      AM""36 * 6 Ot    ve1t  og
ALL 0STS 319 PthA1CS.L COSTS logo, *3)                     ON  CMEvlSS wans _s* 0.V To 0       ma wasoct.1611. ' 3ttaI             by.w. 0 t__t_  _



MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATING COSrS (z/kim I
(ON LEVEL TANGENT ROAO SECTIONI                                                                     FIG 4.2
ovg, "iocs .41aet:) wll"'Al :6;                    TOYOTA  LAND  CRUISER/PICKUP
a   CAT9(tO*t 11*lttS  o  veDtoD  *ee ,1"m ,**                                                                                                                           2 o 
ASPHALT PAVED ROAD 'A' *tu                            GRWVEL ROAD 'G' ea00                           TRACK ROAD 'T' t
VEHICLE              ASSUMING VERY GOOO SURFACE CONDITION               ASSUMING 0000CFAIR SURFACE CONDITON    ASSUMtNG fAItRPOOR SuRFACE ComoiTiOm
Ns    OPERATING COST                     OPERATING SPEED 4k1h                       =        OPERATING SPEED 4km/h)                         OPEPATING SPEED  tkm/il
30    40     50    60    T0    80    90    400    20    30    40    50    60 '  70    s0             10    20    30    40        0 4  t6O     70
I   MOTOR FUEL               is.   IIj.   I u.e  12.2   3.3  14.6   37.2  8t.0   t6.5  16.3   3.6  16.6  IS.?  tS.4  30.0  36.3  J0.3  Is.$   37.4  I?J   36.6   ".0
2   MAOTOR OIL                I.8 3    .    3.2   3.2   3.2   '.2    1.2   1.2    .0   6.0 t             .0   2.0   3.0   2.0   3.4   2.4   3.4    2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4
3   TIRE WEAR                 33         I      A    2t .   2..1      4.6   6.6   3.1   4.5    *.5   6.3  t0.?  *3.0  IS.O    3.3   4.6   S.6    6.1   1 .   IS.?  83.1
4    OEPRECIATiON              .2     .7 3*1.1   30.6  30.3  0.0   6.4   4.0   16.  136.0   35.2  14.S  33.6  33.3 3T.6  34 .4  33.3  331.9   30  36.6  36.'  13.0
5   MAINTENANCE               6.9   7.6   *.0    6.7   9.5  10.o   33.0  32.3 I     3.0'  38.6   36.3   6.0  3T.' 1   .   20.tO .7.      3     20.7   3: .e    6.   26.s
SUBTOTAL COWS 15            *4.2  33.8  34.6  26.5  3T.4  40.0  43.   46.0  53.6   6.6 t    ".4  66A   46.6  *6.7  78.6  76.4   66,6  66.?   73.6  64.2  63I.$  66.
6   itrEREST                        _.4   5.2   5.0   4._   4.6   4.4   4.3   6.0   6.V    _4 6.3   6.0   4.6   4.6    6.4   6.0   0.1    6.4   6.3   6.0   4.6
7   INSURANCE                30.7  lo0,    6.7           6.6   6.5    6.2   7.9 .   1..3  tO.V   102    6.V   9.3   0.6   6.6  I3.   3t.3  30.7   30.3   9.7   6.3   6.6
LICENClG AND-
REGISTRATION             t31   3.5   2.4   2.3   8.    2.3   3.0   2.0    .6   3.?   2.    2.4   3.3 J            .    t.3   J.0    .6   3.7    as    3.4 J.3   *.2
O DRIVER'S WAGES            62.  60.3  37.3  64.7  St.$  50.2  46.3  46.6 6S *             "     0.3  67,3  164.1   6.6  *0.3  70.4  66.6  63.3   60.3 6*.3  54.T  U.6.
10   COMMERCIAL               _6    5.6   2.4    5.3   S.3   5.3   5.3   5.5 _.0   6.6    6.6   6.             6.6    6.7   6.6   6.4                   16      .     .7   7.9
VEHICLE OVERHEADS        s.                                                                                                                 PA     v s._
FIXED COSTS            -~~-    -    -   -                                                              -  I-      I  -         I-       --   -I-              -I
SUBTOTAL POWS 6-0 8         66.   6 3.6   60.0   6.   13.1  10.   6.2        .                                7.6  76.! $   T7.4  too,.  64.4  S6.6  66.6   6.   76.0  74.2
TOTAL RUNNING *FtXED                 .    4.t  I 3J. t3i7 I3.    3.3   3.0 10.6  l3.6l  115.0  347.3  343.   16.  a3  344.3  376.6  34.3  35.6  36.7   6. 
cosTs RowS  3-                                           j..                                                                                                          -    -      A
*O'I   * p .* o.0006, * 363290 *           *     5t -  o  .                     $ C.633433   6*0 o opt5MU.0 
33ti, cosrs 63e ?uMcl.a cTos s ores  39    iV36'3 ee101 oft7 pse   vi0 CotU                                            _. bp .- 



MOTOR  VEHICLE  OPERATING  COSTS  (8z/ftm)                                                                 FIG 4.3
(ON LEVEL TANGENT ROAO SECTION)
DATE 8AVDC'U 5/MAOC 1.AC .905                TOYOTA    7-TON  DOIESEL  TRUCK
0      CAVCOOO, TITLES UPDATED  cra  "6'a 05~                                                                                                                             Shoot 3 of 4
ASPHALT PAVED ROAD 'A                                  GRAVEL ROAD 'Gin                                 TRACK ROAD ITo one
VEHICLE               ASSUMING VERY GOO0 SURFACE CONDITION                ASSUMING 6000/FAIR SURFACE CONDITION    ASSUMING FAIR.-POOR SURFACE CONOOITION
NS    OPERATING COST                       OPERATING SPEED Ot~m/9%)                            OPERATING SPEEO (kIhl/                            opERArING speED 1km/hi
ITEM        30    40      50   60       7'0 01  0    90    100    20    3-0    40                      0    0        0  120    30         0     So            7
I   MOTOR FUEL               24.0s  20.7   30.3   19.0  20.7  83.5   35.9  89.9   41.4  24.0  50.0  39.7  30.4  38.7  20.3  58.4   40.    3c.4   34.3  34.3  35.4  36.4
2   MOTOR OIL                  6.2   6.3    4,3    6.3   1.    *.3    o.*i   6.2   3.3   3.2    a.,   a.8    3.2   3.0    a.a    3.4   2.4~  3.4    a.s    0.5   8.5   R.%
3    TIRE WEAR                 4.6    5.9    7.4   0.7   66.0  14.3   674I104        6.3  09.3  25.7  30.3  36.0  47.4  57.6   lp.0  so.?  84.0   34.7  44.3  57.1  6o.?
4    DEPREIAroomI 7.6   6.4   11I    14.0   4.   63.5   62.0f 08.4  t7.4  25.7  24.2  38.0  26.7  20.?  19.0  40.4   29.0  27.4   20.2  22.4  at.0  30.0
5   MAINTENANCE               13.8  64.0   65.3   07.6  66.5  26.1  33.0  25.0  22.4  20.4  00.311   30.0  24.3  27.0  43*3   33.-7  39.1   39.0  413.3  441.9  S1.3  51.5                I.)
SUBTOTAL ROWS I'S            6 60   56.0   40.6   03.*9   66.5  72.71  00. 0 6.0  t0o.?  604.0  100.3  669.6  687.4  640.0  667.9  648.3  140.3  643.0  649.6  860.0  I67.0  666.3
6    INTEREST                  7.0   7.2    7.6    0.?   4.01   0.0    5.0   5.6   6.4    7.9,   7.6   7.6   4.?    0.4   0.6    9.0    0.4    7.9   179    71.3   6.7    6,4
7   INSURANCE       60.5   0~~~~~~~~.9    9.4    6.9   0.5   6.6    7.?   7.4   06.'3  60.9    9.9   *.4   0.9   0. 6.6    0 211.0   I6.11  00.5    9.91   9.4   0.9   6.9
-        -~~~~~~~~~~I     I-                                                -       -I                                -       -             a
LICENCING AND            3.2   4.9   4.6    4.41   4.2   4.0    2,6   2.?    5,5   0.21   4.0   4.0    4.4   4.0    4.0   .9.    6.1    6.2    4.9   4.4   4.4    ,
REGISTRATION
9   ORIVER'S WAGES           S.2  54l.0   56.0  46.4  40.6  412.9  48.0  480.8   66.0  St.3  94.0  66.0  40.4  46.6  43.9  00.2   66.0  57.3   14.0  56.                   1 40    46.6
60   COMM4.CAL60.5 03.0 3.   63.   1 3 V   63.5   04.0  04.6   09.3   60.6  I16.0  60.0   09.6  30.5  33.0   23.4  23.6  38.3   23.0  83.2  246.  24.6
FIXED COSTS
SUBTOTAL ROWS 6-8            65.6   69.6  65.4   0.6,  79.4  70.4   72*     .61  605.2  "0.    94.0  90.0  SIL0   09,7  60.0  605.2  600.7  60.2*   96.9 0.   93 .0  16.3
COSTAL ROWS ING.IKE         12,    4046.  645.5  044.4  644.9  040.3  653.0  600.5  360.0  204.0  303.6    " 30 a 619.4  n25.7  342.   2576.0  0 a 34.2  847.9  391.0  SPLO  267.911
00071S   16.0 * 1.0009 et . . S 6200    I et/6. '07 a    i5u C.m..b.I6** 4  *9060 04001060 1,30
At6.6. I 1060 *   '3*4(,6.6. costs 6436 '0656                        00  9663O'S 3A06S 8Dm., GMT T0 210COL 7606CL6.S                                 Or6 6W         64.430



MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS lfz/kml
[ON LEVEL TANGENT  ROAD  SECTION)                                                                          Fi  4.
DATE &A.C'S PlIfftatO :::,:: I:S$                     NISSAN   18-TON  DIESEL  TRUCK
ASPHALT PAVED ROAD A                                      MAGRAVL ROAD G' -00                                TRACK RtOAD 'T' 0*
VEHICLE                ASSUMI1NG VERY G000 SURF'ACE CONDITION                 ASSUMING 0000/FAR SURFACE CONDITION               ASSUMING FAIR.*POO* SURFACE CONDITION
N3   OPERIATING COST                        OPERATING SPEED tkmVh3)                                 OPERATING  SPEED (hkW#kim                          OPERATING SPEEDO (ARm)
ITEM-
30   40130   60   TO0* 00 90   100  20   30 40   50   5 0   70   so  tO  20   30   AO0  so   60   70
I   MOTOR FUEL.                3' 6   86.6   85.8   25:5  6735   33.8   56.6   48.5   53.3   40.6   43.6  43.2  45 4   58.4  60,9607.0   68.3   56,4    98.7   so.?  54.7   637
2    MO0TOR OIL                 39 6    .0    8.6    3.6    8.6   E.6    2.10   6.6    4.6    4.6    4.6   4.6    469    468   4.6    5.6    5.6    5.5    5.5    5.6   5.5    5.5
3    TIRE WEAR                  8.7   12.s   86.8   20.7  25.6  30.5   37.0  43.5   84 *  34.0   50.4  6414   680*  30389  88.5   85.6   35.5   531.3   74.0  54.6  838.7  846.7
4    DEPRECIATION              31.i   29.4   2 7.8   36.3  *5.I833.0   03.6   83.9  46.3   45.4   42.6  40.5   36.4   36.5   54.6   76.3   70.6   66.8   6.6.  60.9   56.0  53.3
5    MAINTENANCE               2881   23 8  24.6   26.9  89 4  3381   36.6  40 6   39 I  48.8   46.3  45.6   53.6   56.8  66.8   54.3   56.5   03.3   45.3   74.4  60.7   63.
RUNNING COSTS                 95 3   94     66?   8033  8II*0  838.5  336.8  8505   860.5  I3755  8S7.6  803.3   65.3  85619.5  286.0  838.6   338.3  343.6  36.2 03,421.3  318.66  353 4
SUBTOTAL ROWS 8-5
S)INTEREST                     84.0  3'2 12833  183.6   I3    3 )   0.0   30.3   5.6   34.9]  85.6   85.S   88.6  I8.3  80.6   30.5   36.0   14.6   33.2   is.   I88.9   18.3180.
7    INSURANCE                 .4.    8.6   13.0   88.4   33.5   33.3   80.7   80.3   83.6   84.6   88.6  83.0   88.4   188.6   88.3   36.6     35.6   34.6  3I.6   83.0   83.4  II3.#
LICENCING ANDjf
REGISTRATION              4       30      .7    3.5   3.4   3.3    3.3    8.9    4.4    42 a        ,     3.7    3.5    3.4    3.8     4.      4.4   4.3      3.6    3.7   3.5    34
DRIVER'S waGES            72.0   67.5  64.3   60.6   56.0  55.3  58.6  50.5   76.7   78.0   57.6  54.2  60.5   06.0  55.8    61.9  ft.?   78.0   67.6   06.11  60.9   as 0
COMMERCiAL               la00   to 4   86.0   30.8   l0's  20.2   ti.l  23.4   20.3  a68.0   06.6  29.5   38.5  33.?  38.6   55.8   34.    34?               3.      7.    0       4
VEHICLE OVERHEADS                                                        {.                                                                           a?     390 $A         o         
FIX~ED COSTS                 824 0   830.2  832.3  807.0  804.0  800.8   00.2   00.0  I35.7  OD".  358.7  882.21 389.4  387.7  886.5  854.3  845,9  835.7  334.8  130.0  DV8.   32.2
SUBTTAL ROWS 6*S 
TOTAL RUNNING*G  FIXED    220.3  28.   000 00.0                  234.0   t      34  340.4  300.2  007.Z  584.0  024.0  044.0  070.0  400.0  300.0  077.3  30.3   057.0   4.   47448
880753     1,00a.  u.0a    0 '08./5 b. 0.20 L  I& "I' C..tb.                 0  4301AC2  maoVOO  07000?0m 57000
ALI8. COSTO A05 CPmNCI48 CoSTrS 8'0 85038                              Oct  003v90'0 04050 APPLY7 *;:.7 To 5035550C848t v088851.00                 00o.Q655     0- ~



S N~JHRX         
D"SAI                             +                              \,Road Projects Disbursed
From W B. 2nd. Loan
5.               Al4          Shnas <\
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ICU ts * VQo Ko             S 
lwa  OA'~~~~~~~~                        ~K
V*,%                                       Schse@>t *ohdah  Soh
1)/!4                    **iAz\                            J
< ' ^*t** ~~~~Hofit                                  Khobourch ;l
0 Z                 v     w                         r_ ^, Mozno''A  
4+  t       t   Dank            g    '      MU               5     >~~~~~~~~~MSCT 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jaa Ban lIsa
.Ilo Bol \B\at
it                       \mf SSurQQ  an  Hs
Af    _    _      sk                                                Jalon BardSES



- 63 -
SULTANATE OF OMA                                     STRAIT O    - "ORMUZ
MINISTRY OF COMMUNiCATIONS                J^It
DIRECTORATE GENONAL OP |A WO
THE ROAD NETWORK                            I                                                                  ,
-11101M  MWD OA goa.CWILI                                                                      1      4..
olwo log  /s (6001.9_
-    w   noaos usu..g                                 t                                    \ ......'4.... -    --
_-      AVIO wbsOi tmU Cumi       i                                         \.                                =  
TR--  TEACKS lo at WtrWsuqI d-                                                                                -J
*    wLAYT CUm"
*    OUVESNOATE CaNtm          .
*"Uftlm" ago" CiAlTff. *  44  +p
Aj.U
4~s \rI ^ 



- 65 -
SULTANATE OF OMAN
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT, LOAN 2084-OM
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                          Year of
Title            Purpose          Approval          Status         Comments
985-O      Technical Assistance    1974             Completed    Econ. Planning, Agric
PCR #6629-OM & Fisheries,
Transport.
1441-OM      Highway Maint. I          1977           Completed    Hwy. mtce.
PCR #6210-OM management,
operations, equipment
& training.
2631-OM      Highway Maint. III        1986           Ongoing       Continuation of
objectives of Hwy
Mtce. II.
235SW/tO



- 66 -
2. Project Timetable
Date         Date           Date
Item                        Planned       Revised        Actual
-  Identification
(Executive Project
Summary)                  September 1979      -           September 25, 1979
-  Preparation                  February 1980       -           February 12, 1980
-  Appraisal Mission            June 1980           -           June 16-29, 1980
-  Loan Negotiations            January 1981    March 1981      Nov. 9-13, 1981
-  Board Approval               April 1981          -           January 12, 1982
-  Loan Signature               September 1981      -           March 31, 1982
-  Loan Effectiveness           December 1981       -           May 26, 1982
-  Loan Closing                 Dec. 31, 1985 Dec. 1986, 1987  December 31, 1988
-  Loan Completion              June 30, 1985       -           March 31, 1989
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3. Cumulative Loan Disbursements
FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89
(i)   Planned                     0.7  11.7  14.3  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0
(ii)  Actual                        0   3.0   6.7  10.2  10.6  11.1  15.0
(iii)  (ii) as X of (i)            -      26    47    68    71    74   100
Original     Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid  Outstanding
Loan 2084-OM        15.0          15.0           -           4.37     10.63
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --.



OMAN
SECOND HIWAY MANTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2084-OM; US$ 15.0 LUON)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED & ACTUAL PROGRESS & DISBURSEMENTS.
PECENT
600
SURFACA
TRMW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~DNWEO
110                                                                         _ EE_ _____s' 
#0_cs. .w.u',.in
so WAffCESA  M                       --          !1t1    -
60-___. _r__                                       _ONl3~
20
10
0                          _ 184   EIn_                    ___         ___ _ .
90_      _               _  _  _  _       S   Ii    ___ __ _    _ __ _ _   _______    _ ___  _



5. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (1982-86)          Estimated Actual (1982-88)
Foreign                               Foreign
Local    Exchange    Total            Local    Exchange    Total
Item                Description                       Costs       Costs      Costs           Costs       Costs      Costs
----- (US$ Million) --------- (US$ Million)
1.      Highway Maintenance
(a) Periodic Maintenance
(i)   Asphalt Overlay                     2.0        4.7         6.7             1.6        3.7         5.3
(ii)  Gravel Replenishment -               1.1       1.2         2.3             0.9        0.8         1.7
(iii) Paved Roads Maintenance              1.6       3.8         5.4             3.0        7.1        10.1*
(b) Pavement Equipment                         0.0       0.2         0.2             0.0        10.1        0.1
(c) Highway Maintenance Centres                1.9       4.5         6.4             0.7        0.7         1.4
2.      Equipment & spare parts for
Highway Maintenance                          0.3        4.9        5.2              0.5       6.2         6.7           1
3.      Consultants Services                           0.6        3.5         4.1             1.4        4.3         5.7
4.      Contingencies                                   3.1       8.5        11.6             0.0        0.0         0.0
5.
6.           Total Capital Costs                                                              LI1 1       ..22      3l2
7.      Routine Maintenance                             2.4       2.1         4.5             7.5        5.3        12.8
8.      Contingencies                                   Q         Q 2-
9.          Total Recurrent Costs                                 __2 
10.          Total Costs                                         534.2        01               15-6       28.2      43.8
Estimates based on annual work programme and average unit costs.
*Including double surface treatment.



- 69 -
5.B. Project FinancingA
Planned
Loan
Category                             Agreement            Final     % of planned
(Us----------------------------------------       (S    000)  --
IBRD
l. Highway Mairtenance
(a) Periodic asphalt overlay            4,700            3,771                 80
maintendnte and minor
impr uvemtiLMs
(b) Pavement data collection              200               38                 19
equipment
(c) Civil works for                     1,000              699                 70
construction of highway
maintenance centers
2.  Equipment and spare parts               4,100            6,229                152
for highway maintenance
3.  Copsultant and individual               3,500            4,263                122
technician services
4.  Unallocated                              1,500
Total                                  15,000           151000
DOMESTIC
Detailed breakdown not permitted by accounting system, but all local
counterpart funds to Loan proceeds amounting to US$3.7 million were met by the
Government plus about US$25.1 million to support the balance of the
maintenance program.



- 70 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal           Estimated at       Estimated at Full
Indicators          Estimate            Closing Date           Development
Asphalt overlay       100 km                 79 km                100 km
Training         No specific target         275 No         450 No (continuing
under Hwys III)
Surface Treatment    112 km                 112 km                200 km
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                  Actual
Estimate           (At Final Development)
Economic
Rate of Return                         442                      482
Underlyiag
Assumptions
Traffic growth p.a.                     71                      9.4% *
Highway Maintenance Costs    $20.3 million/5yrs                 29.9 *
Comments:
* Breakdown of actual direct costs of highwvay maintenance not possible since
cost accounting system not introduced during project. This is being
pursued in Highways III. Visual inspection shows good quality maintenance
being undertaken.



- 71 -
7.  Status of Covenents
Loan Agreement                                               Deadline for
Reference                 Subject of C(ondition             Compliance    Status
3.02           Employ consultanits and technicianis to                     Sat -factory
(a) establish and manage maintenaate;
(b) administer, plan and operate DGR
3.03 (c)        Provide fox insurance on imported goods                    Satibtactory
3.03 (b)       Use goods exclusively on project                            Satistactory
3.04 (a)       Provide plans, specs., reports and bid                      Satisfactory
documents promptly to Bank
3.04 (b)       Maititain adf quatt records, enable sit.-                   Sat ista'tory
viS; sit(l i iU 'ibi, information
3.04 (d)       Prepare completiotn report                  0b130/89        On Time
3.05            Implement comprehensive training                           DGR Iraining
program; make available instructh'rs,                      Unit  losed
trainees and maintain a Training Unitit                    down; traininj
in DGR                                                     now undertiver
at Vocatictal
Training
Centres
4.02            Maintain adequate accounting records                       Maintained but
for project and executing agencies                         inadequate for
detailed
analysis.
4.04            Ensure vehicle dimensions and axle loads                   Satisfactory
are consistent with highway design
standards and enforce legal limits
4.05            Implement five-year highway maintenance                    Satisfactory
program in accordance with general
timetable and with appropriate budgetary
allocations



- 72-
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staffing Inputs
(Not Available)
B. Mission Data
No. of     No. of       Staff    Date of
Month, Year     Weeks       Persons      Weeks    Report
Preparation                9-10/79           3          3           9         -
Appraisal                  6-7/80            3          3           9       12/81
Supervision I               11/80            2          2           4       12/80
Supervision II              03/81            2          2           4       04/81
Supervision III             08/81            2          2           4       09/81
Supervision IV              03/82            2          2           4       04/82
Supervision V               09/82            2          2           4       10/82
Supervision VI              03/83            2          2           4       04/83
Supervision VII             09/83,           2          2           4       10/83
Supervision VIII            05/84            2          2           4       06/84
Supervision IX              09/84            2          2           4       10/84
Supervision X               12/84            2          2           4       01/85
Supervision XI              09/85            2          2           4       10/85
Supervision XII             04/86            2          2           4       05/86
Supervision XIII            03/87            1          2           2       04/87
Sdpervision XIV             10/87            1          2           2       11/87
Supervision XV              03/88            1          2           2       04/88
Supervision XVI             10/88            1          2           2       11/88
Completion                  05/89            1          2           2       06/89
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
OMAN, Loan 2631-OM, approved on 10/29/85 in the amount of US$ 30.0 million.



