Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9569
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
(LOAN 2427-KO)
MAY 17, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
KAIST     =    Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KCUE      -    Korea Council for University Education
KEDI      =    Korea Education Development Institute
KNUTE     =    Korea National University of Teacher Education
KOSEF     =    Korea Science and Engineering Foundation
MOE       =    Ministry of Education
MOST      =    Ministry of Science and Technology
OSROK     =    Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR       =    Project Completion Report
SEDC           Science Education Development Committee
STB       =    Science and Technology Bureau



voa OmCLiL uu ot4L
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ogce of Directn.-CAngwal
Op.AtInn4 sivalIut14
May 17, 1991
,MORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDONT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report:  KOREA - Program for
Science and Technoloav Education - CLoan 2427-ROI
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report:  Korea - Program for Science and Technology
Education (Loan 2427-KO)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office, with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has  rtcted distribution and may be w by recipients only in the performnnce
of their ofical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World dank authorization.



roa oFFIciA uSE oNLY
PROJECY OOMPLE?ION REPORT
PRORAMFORSCINCEBUDYUCMOLOY  DUCATION
(LOMN 2427-So)
ilable ef Contents
Pr*faco ...  ............... 
Evaluation Summary                                                     LLL
S. PROJECT REVEW  ROM DANK I S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identityy 
B. Project Background 1
C.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .       2
D.  Project DesLgn and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
Z. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
F.  Major Results of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
G. Project Sustainability................                          7
H.  Bank's Pervormance DurLag Project Cycle  . . . . . . . .       7
S.  Borrower's &erformance During Project Cycle  . . . . . .       9
J.  Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
X.  consulting Servicos  . . . . . . . . .   . ..   . . .. .       10
L.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
1I. PROJECT REVIEW FROH BORROWER'8 PERSPECTIVE
Ministry of Education's Report . . . .      ,.. ... .   11-27
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology's Report    28-35
Korea Science and Engineering Foundation's Report  . . . . .    36-38
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loa nss .....  .........                          39
B. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42
C.  Loan Disbursements . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .       44
D. Project Implementation...........  ....                        46
E.  Program Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      47
F. Project Results  . . . . . . .  . * . . . . . . . . . . .      51
0. Status of Loan Convenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .       66
H. Use of Bank Resources  . ......                                77
LiST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Action Program on Sector Policies and Institutional
povelopment:  1984-90   ..............                       68
Annex 2 - Participants in Completion Misnion  . . . . . . . . . .      74
Annex 3 - Record of Progress Reports Submitted  . . . . * . . . .      75
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoAzation.



- L -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
(UM N_2427-KO)
pREFAC
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Program for
Science and Technology Education in Korea for which Loan 2427-Ko in the amouft
of US$100.0 million was approved on May 29. 1984. The loan was closed on
schedule on June 30, 1989. The last disbursement was made on January 9. 1990
and total disbursements were US$96.5 million or 96.5% of the loan amount.
The PCR was prepared by ASTPH (Preface, Evaluation. Summary, Parts I
and III) and the Borrower (Part I). The Borrower was requested to
consolidate the separate reports of the three project Lnstitutions into one
report but this was not done. The three separate reports therefore constitute
Part II of the PCR. Parts I and III were submitted to the Borrower in
September 1990 but no comments were received. The three reports constituting
Part II were received in the Bank in December 1990.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a Bank miscion in March
1989. and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan
Agreement; supervLsion and progress reportui correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; and internal Bank cemoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
2ROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
(LOAN 2427-KO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
Mi)       The principal objective of the program was to assist in raising the
quality of science and technology education to standards required for an
industrial system that would be more skill-and knowledge-intensive and would
employ more advanced technologies. The strategies for achieving this quality
improvement objective includes expanding science and technology programs
selectively; strengthening research; raising average standards of programs in
science, engineering and science education at both undergraduate and graduate
levels; and improving secondary-level science education with a more
experiment-oriented curriculum.  Major steps taken by the Government weret
new and revised policies guiding the development of science and technological
education, institutional changes for strengthening sector management and
strengthening the financial position of some private institutions, a major
source of higher level manpower supply (para. 4).
Implementation Experience
(ii)      Despite the complicated nature of the project involving two
ministries and many project institutions, and requiring significant policy and
institutional improvements, the project was implemented satisfactorily.  There
were no cost or time overruns. The Government's education policy was
strengthened and planned institution building was achieved. Guidelines and
criteria were adhered to. Quantitative and qualitative targets were largely
reached and in some cases, exceeded. The exception is the target
studentlfaculty ratio of 20:1 which was not reached in 1989, but only reduced
to 30:1 from 36sl in the mid-eighties (para. 10 and Table 8 III (c)).
(iii)     Possible delays in project implementation due to the complexity of
the project, which were seen as a potential risk at appraisal, did not
eventuate. This outcome was due largely to the early involvement of the
borrower in project identification and preparation, the built-in flexibility
for making changes after joint annual and mid-term reviews, the simplification
of equipment procurement review procedures and the Government's strong
commitment to the project objectives (para. 11).
(iv)      Two unforeseen events affected project implementation.  First, the
Government reserved $5 million of loan proceeds for meeting possible deficits
in equipment contracts caused by exchange rate fluctuations and the consequent
need for additional payments in dollar terms in excess of amounts at time of



- iv -
contract signing. The actual total deficit was less than anticipated and
there was insufficient time to utilize the unused part of the reserv¢ before
loan closing. The unused amount therefore contributed to the cancellation of
about $3.5 million or 3.52 of the loan. This was not a major setback but the
unused amount could have been reduced and possibly eliminated if appropriate
action had been taken such as allowing additional equipment purchases by MOE
or permitting KOSEF to finance more research grants (para. 12(a)). Second,
the initial enrollment of the newly established Korea National University of
Teacher Education (KNUTE) fell behind planned figures due to an unexpectedly
low demand for teacher education. However, remedial measures resulted in the
enrollment target being met in 1989 (para. 12(b)).
Results
(v)       The objectives of the project were largely met.  Policy achievements
were impressive: the shift of emphasis from quantititive expansion to quality
improvement, improved manpower monitoring, use of accreditation for quality
control, promotion of research, changes in college admission procedures,
increased emphasis on experimentation, raising faculty qualifications and
remuneration, concentration of resources for graduate education in key
universities and increased financial assistance to private institutions
(paras. 14 - 15 and Table 8). Institutional changes were equally impressive
such as the accreditation work by the Korean Council for University Education
(KCUE), establishment of the Science Education Development Committee (SEDC),
and the Science and Technology Bureau (STB) within the Ministry of Education,
the creation of a new teacher education institution to provide graduate
programs (KNUTE), increased research responsibility at the Korean Science and
Engineering Foundation (KOSEF) and the increased role of the Korea Advanced
Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), (para. 16).
(vi)      The project has had a significant impact on education sector
development, resulting in a better science and technology education subsector
as a whole, improved practically-oriented science and technology education
programs now also in many private institutions, a new college admissions
procedure affecting attitudes towards learning in high schools and a stronger
science education foundation among high school students (para. 17.
Sustainability
(vii)     Improvements introduced under the project are likely to be
sustainable. The major reason for the expected outcome is strong Government
commitment as demonstrated in the many policy and institutional changes made
during implementation. Other reasons include the adequacy of project design
alloving for further developments and improvements, availability of government
resources and institutional support. Experience and competence of local staff
provide further assurance about future sustainability (para. 18).
Findings and Lessons Learned
(viii)    Bank staff contributed towards project success through substantial
assistance in project design and preparation. The flexible approach at both
the project design and implementation stages also contributed to the project's



satisfectory outcomes. Both points shuuld constitute positive lessons learned
for the future. Other findings and lessons learned were:
-    higher staff-week input at the upstream stage of the project cycle
leads to lower staff-week requirements at the implementation stage.
-    effect of exchange rate fluctuations must be closely monitored;
-    a coordinator for the preparation of the Project Completion Report
'.s needed for multi-ministerial projects;
-    staff continuity, if feasible, would be useful for smooth
implementation; and
-    a Specifications Review Division should be highly productive for
preventing and reducing procurement problems.
(paras. 19 to 22).



PRflJCT COMPLETION- REOR
EQBM
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TRCHNOLOGE EDUCATION
(LOAN 2427-xo)
PART  . PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
- Project Names  Program for Science and Technology EducatLon
- Loan No:       2427-Ko
- RVP Unit:      Asia Region. Country Department TT
- Country:       Korea
- Sector:        Education
- Subsector:     Science and Technology
B. Proigct Backoround
1.        Sector Develoment Obiective. (At the time of project appraLial).
In support of the Government's strategy for a planned transition from a labor-
intensive industrial system to more skill-intensive, hlgh technology
production, the education sector's objectives were: to promote the
technological development of Korean industry through an increased supply of
higher quality scientific and technological manpowerg improve science and
technology education at both graduate and college levels  and strengthen the
foundations of science and technology wlthin society through improvement of
science education at the secondary level.
2.        Policy Context.  In recognLtion of the need for placing more
empharis on quality improvement than on the increase Ln supply of trained
personnel, the Government's education policy shifted to: (a) expansion of
training capacity in selected fields only# (b) qualitative improvements
through (i) stricter quality control, (Li) more emphasLi on research, (111)
improving the supply and qualiflcations of faculty, (lv) resolving the
shortage problem of facilitLes and equLpment, and (v) raLsing the qualLty of
new entrants at the admission stage; and (c) strengthening sector planning and
broadening the financial base of private educational instLtutions.
3.        Linkaaes Between Proiect. Sector An Macro Policy Obioctive.  The
project was largely successful in linking project, sector and macro policy
objectives (Part III). It succeeded generally in meeting the overall sector
development objectives as set forth in para. I above and contributed towards
the transition of industrial development to the stage of a more knowledge-
intensive industry. This is supported by a recent series of science and
technology advancement projects which have been assisted by the Bank. The
policy goals set out in para. 2 above were also largely attained. The
exceptLon was that the goal of lowering student/teacher ratios had not been
totally achieved, although the original goal may have been over-ambltious.



-2-
C. Proi2et Obiectives and DescriDtion
4.        Project Obiectives.  The principal objective of the project was to
assist in raising the quality of science and technology education to standards
required for an industrial system tha't would be more skill- and knowledge-
intensive and would employ more advanced technologies. The quality
improvement objective translated into a strategy tos expand science and
technology programs selectively, strengthen research, raise average standards
of programs in science. engineering and science education at both college and
graduate levels and improve secondary level science education with a more
experiment-oriented curriculum. To implement thli strategy, the government
tated in a P-licy Letter to the Bank that it would (a) introduce new and
revised policies guiding the developmnt of science and technology education;
(b) effect institutional changes to strengthen sector managementu and (e)
improve the financial position of sector institutions by reducing the
investment gap between public and private institutLons. To effect its
implementation, the Government proposed an Action Program with respect to
planned policy and institutional changes and inclided a schedule for
implementing the measures proposed. Amendments to Supplemental Letters in
1985 broadened the eligibility criteria to permit more science and technology
institutions to benefit from the project, and increase the participation of
private institutions.
5.        Proiect Compone.ts   (as in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).  The
project consists of financing for national programs and sub-projects in
science and technology education to be carried out by eligible institutions as
set forth in the following Parts:  I. For the Ministry of Education: Part A -
at the graduate training and research, and college levels; Part B - at the
Secondary Level, and Part C - for Sector Planning and Finance; and II. For
the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) part D - expanding the
programs, and strengthening the management of the Korea Science and
Engineering Foundation (KOSEF); and Part E - strengtnening graduate education
at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KaIST), and
improving collaboration among graduate schools and research institutes.
D. Proiect Design and organization
6.        The project was well designed and prepared, based as it was on
several studies namely: the "Sector Survey of Science Education in Korea",
IBRD Report No.3775-KO, January 1982, the "Study on the Development Plan of
Korean Science Education" MOE Report, April 1982, and the "Proposed Plan for
the Second IBRD Education Sector Loan," MOE submission to the Bank, August
1983. The timing was appropriate as it supported the ongoing transformation
of Xorean industry from an earlier, more labor-intensive stage, to a more



-3-
recommended contract awardso no irregularities ln equLym nt procur mont were
found and the workload on bank staff had been reduced; policy changes were
bolng carrled outi agreed guLdolLns had boon observed, and thero were   no
majrr concerns on possLble serLous tlme and cost overruns. Under these
cLrcumstances, a second sector loan was felt to be justLfLed. The operation
was also justLfLed because of the need to contlnue to strengthen the sector
policy framework beyond Ln. 1800-Ko.
8.        There was an overaLght at the tlme of appralial for not havlng
requested the MinLitry of Finance to coordlnate the task of preparing the
Project Completion Report (PCR).  The three major parts of the project were
MOEo KAIST and KOSEF, the latter two beLng under the jurLidLctLon of the
Mlnlitry of Science and Technology (MOsT).  Thexefore it was a cross-
minioterial project. As one mLnLitry had no authorlty over another, there was
a need for a co-ordlnator to oversee the preparation of the PCR. The absence
of a co-ordlnator led to three PCRo belng produced, not one PCR as stlpulated
in the Loan Agreement.  Furthermore, the timlng of one of the three PCPs
recelved by the Bank was slx months behlnd schedule, and this caused delay in
the preparatlon of Parts I and III of PCR ln the Bank.
E. Proiect ImPlementation
9.        Conroarison of "Planned" versus "Actually Performed" Ln Proigct
Implementation. A feature of this project was the unusually small dlfference
between "Planned" and "Actually Performed" in project implementatlon, although
the project was complicated (two mLniLtries and two major agencies), the
demand on the Government for pollcy and lnstitutional changes wasa heavy and
the guidelines and criteria cuntained in Sectlons 3.05 and 3.06 of the Loan
Agreement were strict (see Supplemental Letter dated June 15. 1984 and its
three annexes). The major difference was that the average student/faculty
ratio of around 36:1 in science, engineering and science education departments
was not reduced to the target ratio of 20:1. By 1989. the ratio had been
lowered to about 30:1 (Table 8, p. 5) and this represents a solid achievement
over five years. It ls probable that the target ratio was over-ambitious but
steady progress is continuing to be made in reducing the student/faculty
ratio. As a whole, the project was implemented satisfactorily. (See Table 8
on Project Results and Part III Annex I on compliance with Planned Action
Program).  The Government's education policL was effected (para. 2 above)l
planned institutional building was achievedj guidelines and crit-oria were
adhered to; quantitative and qualltative targets were largely reached and in
sume cases, exceeded; and there were no cost or time overruns.
10.       Proiect Risks.  The risk seen at appraisal was delayed implementa-
tion, because the project was complex to execute and would impose a signi-
ficant management burden on Government. However, the project was implemented
successfully without delay. This was largely due to three factors - the early
involvement of the borrower in project identification and preparation, the
built-in flexibllity for making necessary changes after joint annual and mid-
term reviews and the simplification of equipment procurement review
procedures. These factors were reinforced by the Government's commitment to
the project objectives as evidenced by the Policy Letter signed by the
Minister of Education.



- 4 -
11.       3~1~ugpfUnfrap orsnKtrsAt    ragt Imp.There were two
unforeseen factors which had some adverse effect on project Lmplementations
(a) lluatugtions in exhAn*am ra_ee during the implementatlon period,
1984-88. caused dLicrepancies between the estimated dollar
equLvalent of contracts slgned ln currencies other than US dollars
and the actual payments in dollar equivalents. Theoretically, the
errors should more or less have canceled each other out, as some
estimated costs would be higher than the actual due to favorable
changes in exchange rates, and some ostimated costs would be lower
than the actual due to unfavorable changes in exchange rates.
Unfortunately, most ot the MO0 contracts were showing deficits
versus original figures calculated on the basis of previous exchange
rates. The Government therefore reserved $5 million of loan
proceeds for the deficlt and advised the Bank accordingly. However,
by loan closing, the total deflcit turned out to be only $2.7
million rather than $5.0 million and by that stage, there was
insufficient time to utilize the unused amount of the reserve (about
Us$2.3 million). This amount was therefore undloburoed and
cancelled and the borrower therefore did not benefit from the full
disbursement of the loan. However, this problem was not significant
enough to make the project unsuccessful, although it could have been
avoided if remedial measures had been taken ln time such as, using
this amount for more qulpment purchases by MOB or allowing 108EV to
use Lt for research grants; and
(b)  The Korea Nattional University of Tiacher Zdsation (KNUTm),
established in 1985, suffered from lagging enrollments due to an
unexpectedly low demand for teacher education caused by an
unanticipated backlog of unemployed teachers. As a result, both the
teaching staff and graduate school enrollment fell behind planned
figures. The remedial measures taken by the Government to increase
the number of applicants aimed to provide some incentivas to the
graduates from XNUTE in job placement, such as priority in
assignment. The measures were expected to increase the
competitiveness of KNUTE in comparison to the other % adu%te schools
of teacher education and thereby increase the pool of qualified
applicants by KNUTE. The remedial measures produced results. Since
by 1989, the full enrollment capacity of 2,000 had been reached, one
year behind the target date.
12.      Actions or Decisions not Taken which Affected Project
Implementationo There was some cancellation of the undisbursed loan at the
time of closing (usS3.47 million) I/ and this could have been avoided. The
1/ The major cause was the $2.7 million not actually used within the $5.0
million reserved for exchange rate losses (para. 12(a)). KAIST also had
about $0.1 million of its loan alloeation canceled. The remaining (about
$0.67 million or about 1% of the loan) was due to underspend4ng of funds
for technical assistance at MOS caused by the use of lesc- ostly local
consultants instead of consultants from overseas.



- 5 -
Government could have allowed flexiblilty Lu the use of the loan proceeds by
different project agencLes by permLttLng the transfer of funds between the
agencies. Had some funglblilty been allowed ln the use of loan proceeds.
ROSEF could have used the amounts unspent by HOE and AIST. The amount was
not large (Us$3.47 mllion), but overall disburement performance would have
been lmproved if the unspent loan funds had been utliLzed by KOSEN. To bulld
ln fungibLlity between agencies ln the *ame minLstry was difficult and even
more so between mLniLtries, glven the exLstLng strict internal audltlng rules.
However, by lnvolving the audltors Ln advance, this problem might have been
solved. Also, MOE could have notified partlcipating project inetitutLons of
the availabLlity of some funds as soon as the surplus was detected. Had these
actLons been taken, the unused amount would at least have been reduced and
possibly eliminated.
P. Maior Results of the Proiect. (refer to Part III Table 8 for Project
Profile at Completion).
13.       Proiect ObiectLves.  The objectives of the project were largely met.
Policy achievements were very satisfactory. Institutional developments were
achieved as planned. Management development was generally satiefactory,
strong in procurement of goods and services, but slightly behind in
disbursement and the preparatLon of the project completion report.
Quantitative targets were met or exceeded except in the student/teacher ratios
in science and enginee:ing colleges departments. Qualitative targets were
also met or exceeded in terms of performance indicators, but the real
judgement on quality improvements will come in the future from employers of
the outputs of the science and technology education subsector and by the
growth rate and the changing structure of Korean industry, to which, among
other factors, scLentists and engineers w$i1 make a major contribution.
14.       Policy chances and institutional develooment.  Policy changes and
institutional development were achieved substantially as planned.
Furthermore, although not explietly contained within the Policy Letter, the
policy on quantity and quality had changed. In the early eighties, through an
over-generous annual admission quota, the supply of graduates was deliberately
designed to exceed demand so as to retard the wage increase spiral. From the
mid-eighties, the pollcy shifted to slower and more selective growth rates of
enrollment quotas with emphasis on quality improvement. The change is a
healthy development, and perhaps is due partly to the continuing dialogue
between Government and Bank staff over recent years, in which Bank staff were
consistently advising the Government to place emphasis on quality rather than
on quantity. Supporting policies were improved manpower monitoring, use of
accreditation for quality control, promotion of research, changes in college
admission procedures, increased emphasis on experimentation in the curriculum,
raising faculty qualit.cations and remuneration, concentration of resources
for graduate education in key unLversities and increased financial assistance
to private institutions.
15.       To implement these supporting policies, existing institutLons were
given more assignments and new institutions were established to fill gaps.
The Korean Council for University Education (KCUB) conducted accreditation
work from September 1985 and submitted its first evaluation report one year



- 6 -
later. The science Education Development Committee (S8DC) was establshed in
September 1985 and a new Science and Technology Bureau (BTB) was formed in MOR
wlth two diviLsons, one for sciance educatLon and one for vocational
education. KNUTE was established ln March 1985 and enrollments had reached
the target of 2.000 in 1989. The role and responsibility of ROSBB had been
expanded for promotlon of more research in the flilds of science and
technology through increased research grants from government and endowments
accompanied by better monitoring of research results. KAIST was assigned an
increased role Ln produclng doctorates and masters in science and engineerLng.
16.       Imoact of Project.  The impact of the project on sector development
iL both broad and deep. Thli can be illustrated as follows:
(a) Korea now has a better science and technology education subsector.
Faculty qualiflcations have been raisedi their teachlng load
reduced; more research undertaken; equlpment standards have been
substantlally raisedt course work more experimentally oriLntedg and
quality of entrants to both graduate and undergraduate courses
improved;
(b) instead of offering more practically-oriented science and technology
education only in national universities where the laboratories were
better equipped, the quality of these programs in many prlvate
higher education inetitutions was also improved through financial
assistance;
(c) the new college admiseions procedure was implemented from the 1988
academic year with two major changes. Under the previous system,
all students sat for the college admissions examination first and
then submitted their applications to NOE indicating their priorities
regarding universities. Success or failure of the student to be
admitted into a higher education institution depended solely on the
examination result. The universities were then allocated the
students to be admitted without direct participation by the
universities. Under the new procedures, the students apply first to
the universities they wish to attend and then take the examinations
thus reversing the previous procedure. The change is designed to
erable universities to participate more directly with the students
who are applying for admission. Furthermore, criteria for admission
now include not only the examination result, but also high school
scholastic and non-scholastic records and interviews. In the long
term, the new procedure will assist in transforming secondary level
education from rote learning for the purpose of passing the college
admission exam only, into one with emphasis on in-class studies and
out-of-class activities, practical work in laboratories and equal
weight for all subjects taught irrespective of whether they were to
be tested in the college admission examination. The pressure of
over-studying and tutoring before examinations will also be reduced.
The procedure will be further improved in 1993 through the
introduction of aptitude tests and individual college examinations}
and



- 7 -
(d) the foundation of science education was improved at the secondary
level through hlgher equipment standards at 800 high ochools,
establihment of regional science centers, introductlon of a more
experimentally-orLented ourrLculum and retrainlng and upgradlng
sceLnce teachers and laboratory assistants.
0. Proiect SustainabilLty
17.       Strong Government commitment to the improvements achieved under the
project indlcate that they wlll be sustaLned in the future. Moreover, thLs
commitment is demonstrated more forcefully by the accomplishment of addltlonal
Lmprovements not speclflcally requlred under the project such as: (a) reversal
of the policy of rapld expanslon of graduates Ln scLence and technology in
favor of one of selectlve expansLon and greater emphasLi on quality
lmprovement (para. 15)1 (b) additional changes Ln college entrance procedures
to be completed by 1993 (para. 17)g and (c) a general reform of the senior
secondary school curriculum whlch is taking place between 1988 and 1992 (a
fact revealed during the preparation of the proposed vocational education
project). Other reasons supportlng sustainabillty includes: (a) the adequacy
of the project design whlch allows for further developments and improvements,
such as the use of KCUE for contLnuous evaluation, and the monltorlng of
science education developments and improvements by STBi (b) avallabillty of
government resources such as the phased increase of research grants for KOSEF
from the Government budget to replace loan proceeds, and the contlnuing
financial assistance to private instLtutions; and (c) institutlonal support
from institutions such as SEDC and the Korea Educational Development
institute. The high degree of experience and competence of local staff
provides further assurance of the sustainabillty of the project's
accomplishments.
H. Bank's Performance During Proiect Cycle
18.       Maior Strenaths and Weaknesses.  Bank performance in relation to the
project was in general satisfactory, particularly regardlng preparation and
appraisal which followed a Bank sector review of education in science and
technology. The design of the project was complex and involved major policy
issues and institution building objectLves. Bank staff contributed towards
its later success through, for example, substantial assistance-in the
preparation of the policy letter, action program, guidelines and criteria.
Through lessons learned during the appraisal of the flrst sector loan (Loan
1800-Ko), the appraisal team adopted a flexible approach to project design.
For example, rather then relying on specific covenants to measure project
outcomes (such as student/staff ratios), a number of appropriate indicators
were included in the Action Plan and monitored during project supervision.
This flexible approach was continued during implementation by allowing
amendments to Supplemental Letters in response to emerging project needs
(para. 4). A minor weakness related to the preparation of the project
completlon report. The Bank did not fully understand the difflculty of
producing a project completlon report from two ministrLes and three agencles.
The problem was not detected early enough to: (a) remedy the problem of the
lack of a coordlnator, and (b) prevent the delay in producing the PCR.



- 8 -
19.       Lessons Learned.  The principal lessons learned or again conflrmed
from . .5 project are as follows
(a) A sector loan. if well prepared and appraised after sector work and
efficiently Lmplemented, could contribute slgniflcantly to achliving
sector development objectLves.
(b) Bank staff should be flexlble Ln thelr approach to project deslgn
Lssu-e.
(c) Hlgher staff-week lnput at the upstream stage of the project cycle
for more effectlve preparatlon and appraiLal would lead to lower
staff-week lnput for supervisLon during implementation period (Table
12 of Part III)l another cause of the lower input for supervision
could have been the walvlng of the prior review requLrement for
procurement.
(d) For multl-mlnlsterlal projects, the MlnLstry of Flnance should be
requested to be the co-ordinator for the preparation of the P-R.
(e) Projects implemented during a perlod of wide exchange rate
fluctuations should be closely monltored. partlcularly in the year
before the Closlng Date. Thli would help to ensure that loan funds
which had been reserved to cover currency fluctuatlons but not
utillzed for thls purpose, would be dlibursed before loan closing,
thus precludlng the need for cancellation of loan proceeds.
(f) Table 12 shows that the total number of staff weeks in flild ia only
17.5 for ten supervisLon mls-ions durlng the total implementation
perlod of five years. For seventeen persons on supervlsion in the
field, the average per person is only about one staff week. Due to
the sector loan nature of this project, a large portion of the
staff's time in the fleld was devoted to policy dlalogue, annual
review, mid-term review, ex-post review of procurement actions and
sample checking of the full documentatlon for statements of
expenditure used ln connectlon wlth speclal accounts. The time left
for visltlng project instltutlons was therefore negligible. Thli
leads to several outcomes, namelys (a) actual operations Ln the
lnstitutions concerned were not observed; (b) the vlews of the
lnstitutions regarding the project were not known, or at best, were
gained second hand through the MinLstry of Educatlont and (c) the
views of employers at locations where the univeraLtLes were sLted
and their graduates were employed also were not known. In vlew of
the successful implementation of the project and its emphasis on
pollcy and lnstltutional improvements, the above outcomes do not
necessarily reflect on the effectLveness of project supervision.
However, useful insights could have been galned lnto the impact of
the project from a sample of project institutlons if additlonal time
had been allocated to Lnstitutional vislts during supervision
missions.



-9-
I. Borrower's Performance Durina Proimgt Cycle
20.       Maior Strenaths and W.akngaues.  WLth the experience of implementing
five Bank/IDA loans and credits includLng one sector loan over 15 years, the
borrower's performance throughout the project cycle from sector work to
project completion was ln general hlghly satisfactory. The procurement
agency, the Office of Supplyp Republic of Korea (OSROR), which had been
strengthened through the addition of the Specifications Review DLvision ln the
Foreign Procurement Bureau, performed faultlessly on equipment procurement.
Two minor weaknesses were: the preparation of three PCRs Lnotead of a
consolidated one and the cancellation of about 3% of the loan (para. 20(d) and
21.       Lessons Learned.  This project verified again the importance of
continuity. Accumulated expertise over time was used despite many staff
transfers. A national procurement agency has advantages over separate
procurement offices in various ministries and agencies. The Specifications
Review Division of OSROK. responsible for procedural revliws over and above
the usual technical review, was a very useful innovation introducod by the
Government. It serves as a preventive measure for possible procurement
problems rather than a curative one.
J. Proiect Relationships
22.       ImDact of Relationshios on Proiect Implementation.  The relationship
between the Bank and the ministries (MOE and MOST) continued to be cordial and
this had a positive impact on the smooth implementation of the project. The
relationships between the Bank and project institutions under NOE was, with
few exceptions, remote since there were a large number of such institutions
(e.g., 800 high schools). While MOB served well as the bridge between the
Bank and project institutions, Bank staff did not visit a reasonable sample of
project institutions during implementation, partly due to the lack of time
allocated during supervision mission (para. 20(f)). Although there was no
obvious problem caused by the lack of institutional visits, they would have
broadened the Bank's understanding of the project's impact. The contact with
industry by the bank during project implementation period was nil. Again,
useful insights regarding the project's impact on the ultimate beneficiaries
would have been gained from visits to employers. The relationship between
KAIST and industry was excellent; 41% and 19% of KAIST graduates respectively
with masters and doctorates went to work in industrial entities and this, in
turn, proved the relevance of the training to industrial needs. KAIST also
collaborated well with research institutes (one of the project objectives)
which led to 27% and 42% of masters and doctoral graduates respectively
joining research institutes after graduation. On the research promotion Side,
KOSEF maintained excellent relationships with the universities with
practically all of its grants being awarded to professors.
K. Consultina Services
23.       Role. Performance Level and Imolications of Involvement.  The
consulting services component was le  than 1% of the loan.  However, at MOE.
the contribution of local specialists was significant, e.g., ten study reports



- 10 -
were produced which were utlilzed Ln sectoral planning and ln some cases, led
to follow-up projects (Table 9). For XAZST# the actual use of specialists had
exceeded planned figures--the total staff months for 93 experts were 53 versus
the planned 50. KOSEF had employed only one overseas specialist, and had
spent only about a quarter of the fund allocated on technical assistance
($400,000). This did not adversely affect 3O(IF's work, because there was
adequate local experience and competence available for reviewing research
proposals and evaluating research papers.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
24.       Adeauacy of Staff Acoraisal Reoort. Maior Workina Payers and the
Legal Agreement. Project documentation and data, including working papers
relating to project preparation and appraisal, were adequate. The staff
appraisal report was most useful for the Bank and the Borrower during
implementation. The data relevant to the preparation of the PCR were readily
available from the Bank, but not all relevant data were available from the
borrower at the time for preparing the PCR (para. 8), although this problem
was partly alleviated by the use of Bank data. A possible improvement to the
Loan Agreement was that there could have been three "Unallocated" categories
instead of one for the three major executing agencies (para. 9).



- 11 -
II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOR OWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(By MinLitry of Educatlon, November 1990)
A. Proigct Summary
obiective of the Proiect
25.       The basic objectlve of the science and technology educatlon sector
program (the 6th IBRD Education Loan Projects 2427-RO) was to $mprove the
q%ality of science and technology educatlon in Korea, ln contribution to the
country's scientific skill, knowledge and technologtcal requLrements in the
1980s and beyond. The sector program, preceded by the 5th IBRD Education Loan
Project (1800-o),* lncluded the pollcy and Lnstitutional changes and selective
investments, designed to selectively increase the graduate level education in
science and engineering fields; strengthen the rsuearch capability of graduate
level educatLont improve the overall quality of the undergraduate currlculum
in the field of science end science education; and increase sceLnce class
hours in the secondary schools so as to introduce a science curriculum with
emphasis on laboratory work. The components included: (a) control the
quality of graduate and college level education; (b) concentrate graduate
education ln a few key lnstitutlons; (c) strengthen an LnstLtutLon for
research funding and promotion; (d) improve collaboration between academic
institutions and research institutes; (a) establlsh an institution for
advanced training and research and development ln sclence education;
(f) adjust the college admissions procedures to reward student achievement Ln
school, including performance ln laboratory-based assignments; (g) introduce
new secondary science courses with a greater emphasli on practical work;
(h) strengthen monitoring and evaluation proceduresl (l) recruit and upgrade
teaching staff and (j) improve facilities and equipment.
26.       The $100 million loan was to be equivalent to 14% of the total estL-
mated investment program for science and technology of $711 milllon. The
overall program, of whlch a part was financed under the present loan,
comprlsed flve national programs including accreditation asistance, research
grants, staff development, equipment for secondary schools and regional
science centers, and analytic studies, and about 60 subprojects for equipment
requirements of specific graduate schools and colleges. $78 million was
appropriated for the MOE-supervised projects.
27.       At the graduate and college levels, by 1990. student/faculty ratio
was to average 20sl average teaching load was to be approximately 10 hours
per week; about 50% of all faculty were to be on full time appointmentsl and
t.'ke proportion of faculty holdlng a doctorate was to reach 65% in science, and
50% in science education and in engineering. The shortage of laboratory
facilities was to be reduced to 15% of the officlal standard. At the
secondary level, all students Ln general high schools were to study four
science subjectas 140 experimental units were to be Lntroduced in these
courses; about 20% of instructional time in sclence was to be devoted to
experimental science; and the overall deficit in laboratory facilties and
scLence equlpment was to be narrowed to about 15% each. By 1990 the science
and technology education sector was to graduate approximately 7,000 students
per year at the graduate level in scienco or *ngineeringq 18.000 students at



- 12 -
the college level in science educationh and 480,000 students per year from
general high schools with an improved science curriculum. As a result of
these programs, these graduates would be of higher quality and work in the
fields of evident national priority.
Plans for improvement of Facilities and Equpiment
28.       Rigidity in the Laboratory Facilities Standard for Colleges and
Universities has been considered to be an obstacle to the Zxpansion Plan.
To eliminate the obstacle, government undertook a task to revise the Standard
List of Laboratory and Practice Equipment for each department and completed a
study on Optimum Standard Lists of Laboratory and Practice Equipment for College
Education in April, 1986.
29.       Based on the Lists, the minimum standard for laboratory facilities of
national and private institutions was upgraded by Notification 87-4 of MOE on
February 12, 1987. Standards for research facilities of graduate program are not
determined at the moment, but reports from studies on improvement plan have been
submitted.  The improvement of the research facilities of graduate schools
essential to a development of high-quality science and technology manpower would
be reviewed here extensively.
eurrent Status of Research Facilities in Science and Technoloav
30.       Laboratory experiments for undergraduate science students are essen-
tial to acquire the practical knowledge and the equipment are essential for
that purpose. So far, education loans have provided most of the funds for the
purchase of equipment in higher education in Korea.
31.       Approximately $370 million have been invested for the purchase of
equipment, of which half are spent on natural sciences (23% of total) and
engineering (27% of total) combined. Quantity of the equipment installed
under the loan project amounts to 67,600 pieces to make the availability ratio
less than 50% of MOE's facilities standard.
32.       This ratio is somewhat higher for national and public institutions
than for private institutiens. Considering the durability of the eqipment,
those purchased under the education loan project before 1980 should be worn
out and replaced by now. Availability of equipment in research laboratories
and graduate research facilities is 26% and 76% respectively, far below the
standard. A bold investment plan is necessary for acquisition of research
laboratories. Acquisition of equipment has depended largely on foreign loans,
but continuous funding from domestic sources is to be requested in the future.
Develo=ment of Research Facilities in Graduatg Education
33.       The graduate education improvement project is being promoted with
emphasis on the demand and supply of the research facilities by 1991 based on
the 6th 5-year Econo-Social Development Plan of Korea. Budgetary neds per
faculty for procurement, inotallation, and maintenance of research eulpments
were estimated to be $115.000. One of the recommendatlons for the development
of graduate education is selection of the field for an Lntensive support of



- 13 -
graduate-oriented institutions. Basic research institutions of the fields are
recommended. The estimated budgetary demand in the areas of the advanced
science and technology is approximately $700 million. It was analyzed that
the project could be achieved most effectively by selective and concentrated
investment to the university affiliate research center.
Standardized Inventory Manaagement System of Education Facilities
34.       As prerequisite for the improvement of advanced science and
technology, basic scientific experiments and workshop education should be
carried out faithfully at undergraduate level as well as the vigorous and
specialized research activities of faculties at the graduate level.
35.       Among the many impediments towards the goal are definitive shortages
in the required laboratory equipment and failure to manage the effective
operation. In order to solve the problems, it is desirable for the public
(national) colleges to take the standardized inventory management system,
which is currently adopted as an effective measure in the government offices,
and establish the standard lists of experiments and inventory of the
laboratory equipment within the limit of practical realization. They should
also take action to insure the funding necessary to acquire the standard
inventories reflected in the governmental revenue. Once the standardized
inventory systems are adopted b"; the national institutions, they can be
elastically appropriated to th- private institutions as well.
36.       The Study used the following criteria to decide the standardized
inventory of the laboratory equipment: all the items in college experimental
laboratory facility standard notified by MOB were taken as the objectives, and
the necessary quantity of the equipment was calculated on the assumption that
the one laboratory class unit was 30 students.
37.       Questionnaires formulated according to the criteria were sent to the
selective sample institutions *A standardized inventory was drafted from each
department in science and engineering. Since research faclIlties and
equipment are characteristically diversified and specialized, standardization
is considered to be unreasonable. Accordingly, financing for the research
equipment should be decided after reviewing the individual research capability
of the faculty member. Instead of the standardization, whether the eqipment
is utilized effectively to the research goal should be reviewed and managed
closely. These measures would insure the savings of public funds and maximize
the research capability to educate the high-quality science and technology
manpower.
Joint Utilization Plan of Educational FacLlities
38.       Problems brought about from the acquisition and ut$ilzation of the
research equipment are increasing since the current advancod science require
highly precise research equipment. High price of the research equipment puts
the pressure on the revenues for equipment purchase. Also the level of
precision of the equipment makes maLntenance and operation extremely
difficult, not within the reach of individual researcher.



- 14 -
39.       Therefore, the establishment of the center for joint utillsatLon of
the reaearch facilities le not only the solution eassentLal to overcome the
lack of economic capabillty and management sklll of the researchers, but also
the catalyst in modernizLng the science administratLon system ln equlpment
maintenance and operation. Selectlon of the emphaeszed-fLnancLng field
following the establishment of the center for joLnt utilizatLon ln the form of
research institute would provlde an important opportunity to declde the short-
and long-term dlrection for the natlonal sclentlflc development pollcy ln the
future.
40.       Formulas for the centers may not be necessarily unlform, but could
be divereified to meet the nation's reallty. In the report, the reglonal
centers for facillty utilization that accommodate a varlety of quipment for
joint utilization were revlewed, regardless of the formulas of the center and
the field of emphasized-flnancing. Characteristic, establishment method, and
management plan for each regional center were reviewed and data from the
exemplary centers would be used as basLc materials for the future policy
development.
Mid- and Long-term AcouLsition Plan for Research Facilities
41.       Since Korea's investment ln research facilities has been realLzed
with the Lntermittent forelgn-based education loans to date, purchase of the
many equlpment iteme was seldom made with contlnuous long-term planning.
42.       Due to the characterLitLcs of the loan, the implementation procedure
was so complex and the supplementary expenses were so high that minimum 2-3
years were required from the time of item selection to the acquisition,
resulting that, in some cases, equipments already turned old-fashioned were
purchased with unjustifiably high price. Therefore, the acquisitLon of
facilities in the colleges should be made wlth domestic public revenue wlth
continuous long- and mid-term planning.
43.       Astronomical amounts of resources would be required to upgrade the
research and educational facilities of all the colleges to the level of
international quality standard. Viewing the limitation of the national
financing resources, it is hardly recommended to support all the colleges
evenly. Accordingly, financlng for the facllities acquisitlon should be
carrled out selectively to utilize the limited national funds to the maximum
efficiency.
44.       In order to establish the criteria for selection of the support
institution and the extent of financing, colleges were categorLzed lnto three
groups according to their educatlonal goals (1) lnetitutions with emphasis on
undergraduate education, (2) instLtutions with emphasie on undergraduate
educatlon, wlth some degree of graduate educatlon and research capability, and
(3) institutions with emphasis on the graduate education and research. The
flnancial support was made to improve the educatlon quallty of group
(1) institutions to the level of developed countrles and to increase,
cumulatlvely, the number of group (2) and (3) LnstitutLons. Under the
strategy to increase the number of qroup (3) instLtutions to 20-30% of total
to meet the social demand by the year 2000, the mlnimum necessary revenue is



- 15 -
estimated to be 30 billion won in 1990 and 420 billion won ln 2000. This
amount is enough assuming that the revenue for facilities acquisition is 20%
of the total investment for all the collegeo. In addition, practice of joLnt
utilization of the expensive reoearch equipments would improve the quality of
the science education.
Monitorino System for School Science Education
45.       In order to evaluate science achlevement in both primary and
secondary school education and analyze the educational environment to prepare
the basic materials for the development plan of science education, Science
Education Development Committee on the request of MOE implemented annual
studies on "Development of Improvement Plan and Education" from March 1986 to
December 1988. In the summary report, the study team constructed "Models for
Status Survey and Establishment of Developmnnt Plan" and "Instrument doveloped
for the Evaluation and Survey of Science Education." With these models and
instruments they made a concrete investigation into the analysis of science
achievement and the conditions for science education. In the category of the
analysis of science achievement are included knowledge, inquiry skills, basic
experimental technique and skills, and attitudes toward science.
46.       In the conditions for science education are included high school
science instruction, instructional conditions and materials, college entrance
examination system, R&D in science education and science teacher training,
administration, finances, supervision and text compilations.
47.       The study report is well conceived, includes valuable information
resulting from a thorough survey, and provides important advice. The
government takes it seriously and considers all the recommendations of the
report. Following is the summary of the report. Four research objectives
were formulated for the etudy of science education conducted for the first
time in Korea.
(a)  To prepare national assessment framework and basis of curriculum
improvement through formulation of goals and objectives of science
education.
(b)  To prepare standards and criteria of supporting system in science
education for the planning of science education policy, administra-
tion and finance.
(c) To identify problems of science education based on nationwide status
survey and comprehensive analysis of the survey data.
(d)  Suggestion for improvement plan and monitoring system of science
education.
48.       A model for the establishment of development plans and monitoring
system was developed as shown below. According to the model, development task
is identified from the gap between the ideal science education system and the
current status of science education. The development procedures, which
include selection of development projects and their planning and execution



- 16 -
strategies, are established to iron out the gap. Outcomes of the project
execution would be evaluated by the monitoring system and would give a
constructive feedback into the prior steps
49.       A plan for improvement of science education should be conceived as a
long term plan and cchemed in a way to keep pace with the societal development
of the nation. It has its ultimate goal at science learning achievement of
students. Toward thia goal, it requires to achieve improvement in the
instructional conditions, teacher dev,lopment, school facilities, outside
assistance, support, equipment, teachLiq assistants, and supporting materlals.
Following eight development tasks are identified and corresponding projects
are established in the report: Reform of the science education and
establishment of supervislng systems R & D and International Research
Activities in Science Educations Support of Institutions for Training Science
Education Professionals; Upgrading Qualities and Enhancement Morale of
Personnel in science Educationl Promotion of General Conditions for Science
Instructions; Support of Environment beneflcial to Science Education;
Promotion of Related Enterprises; ard Establishment of Assesment Systems for
science Education.
50.       Studies on the evaluation and environment of high school science
education were conducted using the instruments developed for that purpose.
These will be used as base materials for future studies and policies on the
development of science education.



- 17 -
Ideal Science            Current Status of  |
Education System |       Sclence Sducation
Identification of
development Tasks                    SelectLon of         _
Developmnt Project
Establishment of
Development Projects                  Planning of the 
Projects
|    Execution of
...-   Development Projects                stablishment of
Development Strategies   _
*  Establishment of
Monitoring System
Recruitment and Uparadina of Teachina Staff
Current Status of Colleoe Faculties in the Field of Science and Technoloov
51.       The teaching staff in the colleges of natural sciences and
engineering and at the departments of science education in colleges of
education were projected to more than double from 6,040 in 1983 to 14,730 by
1990 in the IBRD staff Appraisal Report on the 2nd Sector Loan Project (para.
2.07, Table 2-1). The criteria for recruitment of new teaching staff at that
time were that such increase was required for achieving student s teacher
ratio of 20s.l Estimated according to the Statistical Yearbook of Education,
the number of faculty is approximately 10.895 as of 1989. The slight increase
in the number of faculty indicates a conslderable effort in the faculty
recruitment. But still the figure is short of approaching 14,000. the project
goal of the year 1991. The total number of students ln natural sciences and
engineering is 401,227 whlch makes the estimation of student : teacher ratlo
to 37.l. This ratio is far short of 20:1 which is the project goal of the
year 1990. But the number would be considerably improved to 30:1 if only the
project institutions are considered oxclusively. The ratio is 18:l for
scLence education only. It is fortunate that other educational environment in
nationwide colleges (universities) have been considerably improved. The
weekly teaching load had decreased to about 11 hours by 1987 and the
percentage of full-time faculty in all the teaching responsibliLties is
improved to 54g.



- 18 -
Academic Dearees Held by the Faculty
52.       The proportion of faculty with doctorate degree as of 1989 1i  77% ln
natural sciences, 76% in engineerLng, nd 75% Ln college of education. These
flgureos corresponding to increase of 30% from 1984. far exceed the project
goal (65% for natural sclences and 50% for engineering, showing a gradual
improvement of otaff quallty. But for the teachers' college, most of the
faculties are holding masters degree.
Teacher ln General Hiah Schools
53.       In-trainLng of the teaching staff ln colleges of natural sciences
and engineoring and secondary educatlon L as important as currlculum
development. One of the main goals of the 2427-KO Loan Project li the faculty
development. A major evaluation crlterla for faculty development li the
number of publications, which has boen LncreasLng markedly over the tlme
period of five years. The number of research publications and participating
faculty Lncreased by 50% and 37% respectively. Total research fund is
estLmated to be 11.000 million won, increased by about 2.5 fold.
Procurement of Educational Facilities
Current Status of Educational Faclilties in Colleges
54.       Acqulsition of laboratory facilitles and workshop equipments are
prerequListes to the improvement of sclence and technology education. The
number and olze of laboratories improved a bit, but are still far short of the
goal. The number meets only 74% and sLze 66% of the requirement. Continuous
investment in laboratory facilities li essentLal to the quality improvement of
science and technology education in the future.
55.       For most LnstLtutLons, the availability dld not improve
conosderably. Thio iL because the college laboratory facilities and equipment
standard were upgraded in February 1987 under the improvement plan for
facillties and equipment. The standard for some private colleges was not
altered, so that availability ratio lmproved by approximately 5-10% from that
in 1984. But installation of the new equipment procured by the 6th IBRD
education loan markedly improved the utilization rate, which was verified
during the on-the-spot survey.
Scientific EguiDment of General Hioh Schools
56.       Availability ratio of laboratory facilities is over 80% to the
requirement. The degree of improvement quantity-wise increased conoiderably
for the five-year span. On the other hand, it increased only 45% amount-wise.
This indicates that the goal achievement approached only in quantity with
low-quality equlpment and not enough usable items have been acquired. More
investment in the secondary technical schools as well as general high schools
is essential to form a flrm foundation of the quality improvement in science
and technology education.



- 19 -
Acauimition Plan for Laboratory Facilities in Graduate Sghool
57.       Factors for quality improvement of graduate education in science and
technology included upgrading of staff qualifications, pollcy of graduate
educatLon, and acquLsLtLon of research facliltles. Among them, lt is the
shortage of research facliltles that io most ln need of lmprovement. Although
the urgently needed basle equlpment li coneldered to have been acquLred from
the 6th Educatlon Loan, there is stlll much to be lmproved. More Lnventment
for graduate-orlented research facliLtLes, particularly ln the basic and
high-tech sclence flolds (such as new materials, semL-conductor, and genetlc
englneering) should be preceded before Korea's industries are upgraded lnto
the pace of developed countrles. Until recently Korea depended heavlly on the
foreign loan for funds necessary to purchase sclentlfle equipment (IBRD
education loan supplled 71% of the revenue source in publie (national)
instltutions and 49% in private schools for purchase of equlpment and
facilities over the tlme perlod 1984-1989), and the trend is expected to
continue for some time. It would be advisable to give the pollcy
consideration to allocate at least more than 10% of publlc loan to education
sector considering the effect of sclence and technology educatlon on the
development of the lnformatlon-orlented LndustrlalLzed society.
Effect of the Proiect on Science Education PolLices
Development of Science Education PolLcLes
58.       Science and technology wlll play an important role ln exploLting the
nation's industrial structure. That requires major investments and polley
development in scientific and technologLcal lnfrastructure and ln manpower
development. Direct investment has been made to purchase laboratory equlpment
at undergraduate and graduate programs in scLewce and technology, science
education in the colleges of education, scienee high schools, and general high
schools. Additionally, nlne research project& have been lmplemented for the
development of science education policies. The outcomes will be conducive to
the future education sector plans.
Imorovement of Graduate Education and Faculty D -.y%lonm9.eft
59.       Laboratory equipment that has been procured under the loan projects
are very conducive to the graduate eduzation and  aculty research actlvltles.
The number of publications has been lncreasing rcmorkably for the period of
the 6th IBRD Education Sectoz Loan Project, indic-ktlng that faculty research
is improving in substance. The number of faculty holding a doctorate degree
increased appreciably and overseas trainlng programs have also contributed
conslderably to the improvement of staff quallflcatlons.
Trainino System of Hiah-Oualitv Manoower in Science anqJ Technoloav
60.       Plans for strengthening manpower development ln sclence and
technology should be determined in accordance wlth the demand of industrles,
research lnstitutes, and educational lnstltutlons. For that purpose, plans
for establishment of trainlng system for the high-quality manpower ln advanced
sclence and technology have been studled. Under the plans, graduate educatlon



- 20 -
is improving substantially durLng the period of 6th IBRD Education Sector Loan
Project and the number of graduate students worklng for hLgher academic
degrees are Lncreasing gradually.
Status Analysis and  amrvmnt Policy of School Science Education
61.       As a prerequLilte for overall quality improvement of science
educatlon ln primary and secondary schools, problems and impediments have been
apprehended through the status analysis. An a result, urgent problms and
lmportant projects requiring long-term investment were brought up concretely.
They will form foundations for the development of sclence educatlon policy to
upgrade the natlonal *tandard of sclence in the 21st century.
Performance of Government Resoonibilities
62.       At the time of Loan Agreement, the Korean Government prepared an
Actlon Program ln Sector Policies and Institutional Development to improve the
quallty of education programs in sclence and technology.
Graduate Trainino and Research
Underoraduate and Graduate Proaram Accreditation in SLence and EnoineeriO9
63.       Government requested Korean Council of Unlverslty EducatLon (KCUu),
an association of 311 colleges and universities in Korea, to conduct reviews
and evaluation of undergraduate and graduate programs in order to establish a
proper educational goal and quallty control of the educational system
accreditation. Accreditatlon was conducted for 1 year beginning September 16,
1985. Models by department for conduct of accreditation and questionnaLres for
accreditatlon were developed. Accreditation reports were submitted on
September 15. 1986 after computerized analyLsi of the collected information.
Graduate-oriented ProaraMs in Science and EnaLneerLna
64.       In order to improve the quality of graduate programs in seience and
englneering, a few selected institutions would be assisted intenslvely.
Individual characteristics of the project institutions would be reflected on
the expansion plan for facilities and equipment. Towards this goal, the
Government was to prepare a long-term development plan as a prexsquLsLte for
the selection of graduate-oriented universities. A profesesonal study team
was organized in December 1984. A report on long-term development plan of
graduate programs in science and engineering (371 pages of text and 41 pages
of annex) was prepared in July. 1985 and the recommendations have been
reflected on the government policies.
Graduate Proarams and Research Development in Science Education
65.       Government established the Korea National University of Teacher
Education (KNUTE) and started to admit the students in March, 1985 to improve
the quality of scLence educatlon by strengthening the graduate programs ln
science educatlon. In the first year of operation, the University planned to
enroll about 1,500 students yearly including about 700 at the graduate level.



- 21 -
Of these, approximately 250 were to pursue the masters and doctorate degreo in
science education. As of May, 1989. 1,963 students are enrolled ln
undergraduate program of NUIT.
66.       At the moment, 137 (out of 247 quota) are enrolled ln the master's
program and 49 (out of 84 quota) are enrolled ir the doctorate program whlch
started operatlon ln March 1986. The graduate programs and research
development ln science educatLon have not been as well underway at the moment
as would be desired. To moet the trlple goal of research, teacher education,
and re-training of teachers, the KNUT! should make every endeavor to recruit
more students Ln the graduate programs.
Science Education at Underaraduate Level
Improvement of the Present CondLtions for Colleg2 Education
67.       The Government had prepared faculty developent and faculty
recruitment plans for colleges of educatlon, colleges of natural science and
colleges of engineerLng and lmplemented plans accordlng to the followlng goals
for 1990 s average student : teacher ratio would fall to 20:1 s average
teaching load would be 10 hours per week; at least 50% of faculty would be on
full-time appointments; and the proportion of faculty with doctorate degree
would be 65% in colleges of natural sclence and 50% ln college of education
and colleges of engineering.
68.       As of 1989, accordlng to the StatLstical Yearbook of Education, the
average student : teacher ratio is 23:1 for colleges of natural science and
51:1 for engineering, indicating large difference between natural scLence and
engineering. When we take only the project instLtutions into account, the
student t teacher ratio is 32:1 in the colleges of natural scLences. 33:1 ln
the colleges of engineering, and 18:l ln the colleges of education (28:l in
the national colleges of natural sciences). These numbers are considerably
approaching the project goal.
69.       Fortunately, other educational conditions of all the colleges and
universities have been improved : average teaching load is about 11 hours per
week; 69% of faculty are on full-time appointments. The proportlon of faculty
with doctorate is 76% for national universities in natural sciences and 80% ln
engineering which is higher than the overall average 56%.
PreDaration of an Improvement Plan for Facilities and EauiLment
70.       Government had prepared the revised equipment lists by subject area
in order to solve the problems indicated from the lmprovement plan for
facilities and equipment : the rigld facillties guidelines, inexperience ln
the usage of the facilities, shortage of accessories and parts, and selection
of the equipment requirlng a high maintenance cost.
71.       The study team, organized in November 1985, initlated a study on the
proper standard for laboratory faclilties and experimental equlpment at col-
lege level and drew up a tentative guideline (7 areas) an Aprll 30. 1986.
Equipment for colleges of educatlon is primarily for science oducatlon and



- 22 -
science teaching. Approximately 30 colleges of natural science and 20
colleges of education were to be assisted under the program.
72.       The shortages in laboratory facilities were to be reduced to about
15%. The shortages in equipment for teaching and research would be reduced to
about 30% by 1990. Laboratory work was to increase from 10% to about 30% of
class time.
Secondary Science Education
73.       Government had adopted a plan to increase the study of science
subjects, particularly at the high school level; to improve curricula and
instructional materials; to strengthen the skills of classroom teachers; and
to upgrade facilities and equipment of general high schools and regional
science centers. Its concrete achievement goals were the creation of the
Science Education Development Committee (SEDC), staff strengthening of the
Science Education Division (SED) of the Science and Technology Education
Bureau (STEB), study on the improvement of science education, improvement of
college admission procedures, and staff development for secondary science
teachers and laboratory assistants. Actions taken under the program up to now
are listed below.
Creation of SEDC
74.       SEDC was to be organized by June 30. 1984 in order to establish an
agency to oversee the design and implementation of the new science curriculum
with greater emphasis on experimental and practical science work. Towards
this goal, the Government created SEDC with 8 members on September. 5, 1985.
Its function was to advise on the implementation of the 6th IBRD Education
Loan Project in short terms as well as on the long-term science education
policy making and implementation. The past performances are listed below:
Feb. 5, 1986   Discussion of programming of research and development
project for 1986.
July 25, 1986  Evaluation of status analysis and development of
science education at high schools.
Sept. 23, 1986 Discussion to improve ways for development of basic
science education projects in the 6th 5-year plan.
March, 1987    Discussion on ways for overseas training of secondary
science educators.
June 1, 1987   Promotion of a study on the establishment of the
status analysis, development, and monitoring system
of secondary science education.
April 30, 1988 Promotion of a study on the establishment of the
statu  system of science education at school.



- 23 -
Staff Immrovement of Scienee Education Division
75.       In order to implement the disparate functions of curriculum design,
material preparation, teacher retraining, and evaluation and feedback, the
staff of the SED of GEB was set to increase to 15 by June 30. 1984. Toward
this goal the Ministry of Education was reorganized and divisions involved in
the administration for science education were enlarged on August 25. 1986.
Namely, Science and Technology Education Bureau was newly established in the
reorganization and Science & Technology Education Division was divided into
Vocational Education Division and Science Education Division. The staff was
increased to 16 staff with addition of 7. Contents of increase were 1
division director. 2 assistant directors, 1 senior researcher of Education,
and 3 other general staff.
Improvement of College Admission Procedure
76.       Government was to introduce, by June 30. a plan for monitoring the
secondary science program and a plan for improving teachers' assessment
skills. Government requested SEDC as its first assignment to analyze actual
conditions for high school science education and study ways of development and
establishing new system to check related progress (March, 1986). A project
completion report was completed on December 16, 1986. Contents of the study
were: examining rationale of science education and itemizing purposes thereof,
developing criteria and apparatus for evaluation of learning achievements
grasping problems and searching ways for development. Integrated reports from
the studies on science education for secondary level (Dec. 30. 1987) and
elementary school (Dec. 26, 1988) were published.
ImRrovement of College Admission Procedure
77.       In order to establish a basis for improvement of science education,
the Government had a plan to adjust college admissions procedure to enable
individual colleges to select students by taking account of student'o overall
performance on the entrance examination, as well as achievement on the science
and mathematics component of the entrance examination and on the school
record. Since 1981 college admission procedures have taken into account the
school record. In most cases, however, only a total score is made available
to colleges and decisions on admission are made without detailed information
of student's prior achievement in science and mathematics. Government
evaluated the entrance examination system and developed a modified approach
with a view to providing selecting colleges the students' scores in
mathematics and science as well as the students' school record. Findings of
the study were planned to be implemented in the admissions cycle for the 1987
academic year.
78.       A new college admission procedure was implemented from the 1988
school year. The biggest change was a change in system to application-
prior-to- examination procedure. Examination factors were sum of the written
test results, high school records (to share 39% or more in the total cridit),
and interview credit. Each school is in charge of the admission procedure.
Preparation of the examination is supervised by National Institute of
Educational Evaluation. Examination subjects are same as before (9 subjects)



- 24 -
but subjective style examination should be taken at around SO% of the total
credit. Acoording to the nature of departments, each instLtutLon may
designate selective subject and distribute additional points among subjects
within 10% of the total credit. During the present education loan
implementation period, the government is planning to establish the newly
improved college admission procedure by December 1989. ln consultation with
the KCUE, so that the college admLision system would contribute basically to
the development of the secondary level education. The new college admission
system, which would be operative from 1993 school year. includes the
evaluation through the college aptitude test, high school performance records,
and examination given by indlvidual college. The aptitude test would be given
twice a year by which the students' capability to obtain the college education
would be evaluated. The allotment of the high school performance records
would be increased to more than 40% of the total credit. Each college would
be responsible for its own specific entrance examination, but the number of
subjects tested would be limited to no more than two. The improved admission
procedure. properly managed, would be a sufficient incentive for schools,
teachers, and students to place more emphasis on science.
Staff Develooment for Secondary Science Teachers and Laboratory Assistants
79.       Government planned to prepare a national program for retraining and
upgrading secondary science teachers and specialists and recruit approximately
700 additional science teachers per year and attain a level of 2 laboratory
assistants per general high school (project implementation April. 1984 -
April, 1989). The number of science teachers was increased by 2,417 and
laboratory assistants were reinforced by 517. The rate of reinforcement for
teachers in natural sciences was 44%, slightly higher than 40% increase for
overall subjects. Eleven fold increase in the number of laboratory assistant
would be expected to be of great help to the laboratory management.
Problems of the Implementation Procedure
80.       Problems in the implementation of the present loan project are
derived from the complexity of the implementation prccedure. It takes about
two years from Loan allocation to equipment installation. Often the most
modern equipment at the time of request for purchase becomes old-fashioned
left out of progress in science and technology. Price increase and the
changes in foreign exchange rate in the midst of the project implementation
may bring about the decrease in the quantity of the equipment from original
plan. It takes about two months from receipt of shipping documents to
delivery of the shipping due to the complicated procedures between the project
institutions, the HOE, and OSROK.
81.       Since the application forms for IBRD Education Loan Project were too
complicated and voluminous compared to the forms for other loan, it took lots
of time and manpower for the preparation of the application form.
82.       There are too many sorts of paper required for customs clearance of
the equipment imported under the loan, which are, in detail, import
declaration, supply notice of import goods, shipping documents, recommendatlon
for tax reduction, confirmation on goods to be imported, confirmation on us-



- 25 -
of goods lmported, registration card of tax-exempted imported goods, and copy
of business license and eto. A large scale reductlon of such papers is
recommended.
Problems in EcuLDment Installation and Utilization
83.       Problems in equipment selection and utilization lndicated ln the 5th
IBRD Loan Project have been improved somewhat in the present loan project.
Feaclbillty of the research project was reviewed ln the process of subproject
evaluation. Installation cost (5% of equlpment purchase) was provided, though
not in sufficient amount. However, a few problems in the equipment
utilization are yet to be improved:
(a) due to changes in price and the foreign exchange rate ln the midst
of project implementation, purchase of accessories and parts were
not sufficient or equipment was replaced with those of lower
quality.
(b) expensive equipments that could have been used jointly were
purchased in duplicatlon and equipment, that required a large sum of
operating cost, were selected.
(c) the most grave problem in usage of equipment is lack of maintenance
expenses and operation technicians. It is worse in the case of
high-priced and sophisticated equipment. As there is no quota of
operation technLcians, graduate students or research assistants are
in general doing the job. But lack of continuity and
professionalism prevent the full utilization of the equipment.
Problems Due to the Changes in Foreian Exchance Rate
84.       Many equipment contracts were signed in currencies other than US
dollars.  The US dollar equivalent of these contracts was therefore different
at the time of contract signing and the time of actual payment because of the
fluctuation in exchange rate of currencies.
85.       Recently, most changes were not in favor of the US dollar.  To make
up the excess over-disbursement, the loan reallocation plans were discussed.
The consequence was that the sum total of actual payments would exceed the
original amount at the time of contract signing by about US $2.73 million.
Problems in the Implementation of the Government Covenants
ImDrovement in student : teacher ratio
86.       Student : ratio was set to average 20:1 by 1990 as an achievement
goal, but this goal seems to be far beyond practical reach. According to the
educational statistical yearbook, the ratio is 38:l for colleges of natural
sciences and 46sl for engineering.



- 26 -
Intearitv of Korea National University of T2achbr 3ducation
87.       The University, whleh opened in 1985, is unLque in adapting an
integrated approach to pre-service teaching, reaearch and in-service trainlng
activities. The University is to be a model institutLon with the prime aim of
improving the quality of teaching in Korea. However, Ite University has not
been able to recruit all the required teaching Ptaff aa4 the graduate school
enrollment did not reach the full quota. Although, it made a policy, as a
remedial measure, to improve the quality of applicants at the undergraduate
level and to treat the graduate favorably in job placemont, the prospect is
not very bright due to the societal factors such as the backlog of unemployed
teachers.
Utilization of the Various Studies for the ImorovemSnt of Science Edueation
88.       Variety of studies have been implemented as a part of education
sector plan over the time period of the present loan project. They ar-s a
study on long-term development plan of graduate level education in natural
sciences and engineering, a study on the planning analysis and monitoring
system of the teacher evaluation in science education, and etc.
Recommendations suggested from these studies have yet to be utilized. In
other words, the time and method by which they are adopted would decide the
future direction of the science and technology education.
Enforcement of Financine to Private Institutions
89.       It is one of the most urgent issues that Government set a plan to
strengthen the financial base of private educational institutions and support
them to meet their goals to improve the quality of education in Korea. Due to
he lack of public support, there was a financing gap of about 40% of total
spending on education and training in Korea. Hence, investment for faculty
recruitment, acquisition of research and experimental equipment, and books and
facilities are too scarce for the educational conditions to be improved
desirably. Since the share of private institutions in science and technology
education is about 75%, without a definitive plan for financing to private
institutions, the improvement of the quality of science education in Korea
would be greatly retarded. Financing to private institutions is meager in the
present loan project. It is in the public interest that Government adopts
measures to improve the financial base of private educational institutions.
Recommendations
90.       Following problems have been identified during project
implementation:
(a) Prolongation of the implementation period due to the complexity of
the implementation procedure.
(b) Fairness in the international competitive bidding and difficulties
in regulating specification of the equipments.



- 27 -
(c) Limitation in utilization of equipment owing to the lack of both
equipment operator and repairing cost.
(d) Problems in equipment procurement due to the foreign exchange rate
fluctuation.
(e) Problems concerning the quality control of the substituted
Korean-made equipments and unjustifiably strict facilities and
equipments.
(f) Substantiality of Korean National University of Teacher Education.
(g) Limited financial support to private institutions.
91.       Some of the above problems were improved compared to the period of
the 5th project implementation period. For others, continuous policy
consideration and new investment should be followed on.
92.       Although the project objective have not all been reached, it id a
fair judgment that many project, have been implemented on schedule. Entering
into the society of advanced industrial structure and information of the year
2000, Korea's demand in high-quality research manpower in science and
technology is expected to grow. For improvement in effective science and
technology education, following points related to this project should be
emphasized.
(a) The quantitative growth of higher education may have been receptive
to the growing national level of education and the national
aspiration for higher education, but it failed to meet the societal
demand of quality manpower and might lead to waste of social and
individual resources. The long-term purpose of higher education
should be, therefore, aimed at quality education and at supply of
high-quality manpower to meet the demand of society.
(b) Graduate-oriented universities should be supported to surwagthen
graduate education for creative academic activities.   Educational
investment should be made to expand both the graduate research
facilities and the research professorship program for upgrading
R & D capability at graduate programs and to support university
affiliated research institutes.
(c) For widening the manpower pool in science and technology,
substantial devolopment of education in basic science and technology
should be promoted beginning with the relevant curricula of
elementary and secondary education.
(d) For enrollment policy, it is desirable to curtail enrollments at the
undergraduate level, thus reducing the output and alloviating the
employment problem, but to expand graduate education, especially the
Ph.D. programs. The expenditures saved from smaller undergraduate
enrollment might meet the required funding for the expansion of the
graduate level education.



- 28 -
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' SPERSPECTIVE
(By Korea Advance Institute of Science and Technology, November 1990)
1. The Role of the KAIST ln the Korean National Educational
and Economic Develooment Plan
93.       Korea's economic development and social progress during the last
three decades have been called remarkable and well-known. since 1960, Korea
has developed from one of the poorest countries to a middle income, newly
industrlalLzing country. Impressive social gains have been made. Health,
education housing and public oervlco hrAve improved signifLantly.
94.       The remarkable feature of Korea'"s economic dovelopment is the fact
that its human resources in favorable social and political environment enabled
the country to make the impressive achievement ln virtual absence of
exploitable natural resources. Human resources consists of quantitative and
qualitative aspects. Investment in educatlon is the prlncipal source of
improvlng the qualitative aspect of human resources, namely, human capltal.
Slnce population growth has slowed down during the last three decades while
education standards improved, the maln source of Korea's economic development
has been the improvement of its human capital through investment in educatLon
and health.
95.       Education is expected to continue to play a pivotal role in Korea's
economic growth in 1980'.. However, it has to undergo structural change in
line with the structural change occurrlng in the economy. Due to shifting
comparative advantage and growing international protectionism, structural
change and export diversification are thought to be necessary for Korea's
sustained rapid economic growth ln 1980's. New exports in skill-intensive and
high technology fields must be vigorously developed. For this purpose, the
technological capability of Korean industry needs to be upgraded. This in
turn requires an increase in the numbers and an improvement in the quality of
trained scientists, engineers and technicians by emphasizing the seience and
technical education, in particular, at a higher level.
96.       In the past, education in Korea emphasized wLdespread provision of
basic education and vocational trainlng. This emphasis recorded an impressive
achievement and significantly contributed to the country's economic growth.
Korea's achievement in this field Ls unlque among developing countries in that
almost 100 percent of labor force is literate and 90 percent of productlon
workers have completed secondary or primary education.
97.       Having succeeded ln the propagation of basie education, Korea is
moving toward a system of mass partLcipatLon ln college education, estimated
at 31 percent of the corresponding age-group by 1981. As the plnnacle of a
developed educatlon system, graduate education provides the tralned faculty
and serves to set and malntain standards at the college level.
98.       If Korea is to achieve the planned structural change to more sk$il-
intensive and high technology production, however emphasis should shift from
college education to graduate education in science and technology.



- 29 -
99.       The Korea Advanced Inetitute of Science and Technology (KAIST) could
make a significant contribution to the advancement of graduate educatlon in
science and technology as a unique graduate education and research center for
scientists and engineers. The KAIST was unique in two respects. Flret, it
was the only Lnstitute in Korea designed solely for graduate education and
research ln science and technology. Second, it included a research lnstitute
formerly the Korea Instltute of Science and Technology, withln the system of
graduate education. It is belleved that the most effective method of training
scientists and engineere of high caliber is to have a setting where educatlon
and research reinforce each other for the advancement of science and for the
tralning of scientists and engLneers.
100.     The close cooperation in research and training has been establlshed
in KAIST, which is newly reorganized ln 1981 by mergLng KAIS, a graduate
education institute, with XIST, a research instLtute. As a graduate training
lnstltute, it not only enables a group of the most highly quallfled
researchers in Korea to train good researchers but Lt also provldes a stlmulus
to sclentists at KAIST to keep thelr topics on the frontler of their
discipllnes and tlmely in terms of Korean natlonal needs. Although lt covers
only a limited range of academic and professional fields in science and
engineering, KAIST has demonstrated its capacity to produce capable scientists
and engineers. Its graduates have moved lnto academlc employment as
university faculty as well as industrial and research organizatLons.
101.      If KAIST is to play a critical role in this time of transition of
Korean economy from labor-intensive to more skill-lntensive and high
technology production, a greater degree of emphasis should be placed on
doctorate and post-doctoral program than in the past.
102.     The three tiers approach to the graduate programs of KAIST, e.g.
the regular master's program, professional engineers program and doctorate
program are augmented by the post-doctoral program. The post-doctoral program
consiets of two parts. one is to provide educatLonal and research perlods at
KArIST for those who have completed doctoral courses of study at Korean
universities and abroad. Another is to send KAIST faculty abroad for
professLonal contacts wlth their counterparts ln advanced countries so that
they may be kept informed of the latest advances in their dLsclplLnes.
2. Obiectives of the Loan AoolicatLon
103.     KAIST's main objectLve ln seeklng an IBRD loan of US$10,000,000 was
to improve and expand the exlstlng and addltional Ph.D. program, to lnstltute
a new post-doctoral program and to refresh the research and educatLonal skill
of its faculty. The funds were sought (1) to send the faculty abroad to keep
them in touch wlth the frontier of knowledge ln their dlseiplines ln advanced
countries, (2) to provide the foreign exchanges required to entlee Korean
Ph-Do abroad to come to KAIST as post-doctoral fellows, (3) to recruLt new
faculty froea Korean scientists and englneers reslding ln advanced countrles,
(4) to purchase research and teachLng qulpment for new departments and new
faculty, and flnally (5) to purchase forelgn books and journals for the
library. Addition of the Department of Applied Mathematles to the College of
Science and that of Department of Clvll EngLneerLng to the College of



- 30 -
Engineering had already been approved. All new faculty members joining XAIST
were provided with US$20,000 each for purchase of equipment for each new
member 8s laboratory.
104.      KAIST recognized that an educational and research institute wau as
good as the caliber of its faculty and research staff'.
105       At this time of rapidly expanding technology and scientific
knowledge, it was essential that KAIST enable its faculty to be in constant
touch with the frontier of knowledge in their respective disciplines. For
this purpose, KAIST sought to send every member of its faculty to institutes
of learning and research in advanced countries in four or five year intervals.
In the past, if a faculty member could not seocure a paid position abroad, he
had been unable to go to the institute of his choice due to financial
constraint. KAIST sought to remedy this situation by the funds obtained
through the IBRD loan.
106.      KAIST considered research skill and experiments as an integral part
of all graduate education and, in particular, Ph.D. education.
107.      The teaching arm of KAIST, formerly KAIS had acquired a
US$11,600,000 loan from the U.S. Export-Import Bank in 1978. The loan had
mainly been used to purchase U.S. made quipment to implement the
establishment of masters of engineering program. KAIST needed to upgrade and
expand further equipment and facilities required to improve and expand its
existing and additional Ph.D. program.
108.      As the institute which offered graduate education and included a
prestigious r:esearch institute within its educational system, KAIST was the
only institute which could offer post-doctoral training to scientists and
engineers. KAIST's post-doctoral program would recruit fellows from within
Korea and Koreans abroad. The IBRD loan was sought to provide foreign
exchange to enable KAIST to recruit promising Korean Ph.Ds abroad
successfully.
109.      The post-doctoral program, enabled them to know their homeland at a
professional level. This played a significant role in attracting Korean
scientists and engineers to Kore-n universities and research institutes.
KAIST hoped to play a leading role in reversing Korea's brain drain by means
of its pout-doctoral program.
110.      At the same time, KAIST planned to use a part of the IBRD loan to
actively recruit Korean scientists and engineers in advanced countries for its
faculty positions.  An effective recrultment program contributed significantly
to improving the caliber of KRAIST's faculty.
3. Effect of the Proiect
111.      KAIST has established an education program for producing about 4,000
doctorate degree holders in advanced science & technology by the year 2,000.
as part of the government's "Science & Technology Manpower cultivation Plan".



- 31 -
112.      Execution of the education program for the SBRD Loan (2427-Ko)
Project resulted in reinforcement of the necessary educational/trainLng
equlpment, and modernlzation of test equipment for supporting basic &
sophlstlcated research, whlch will serve as a cornerstone for the
science-oriented society ln the futuro.
113.      In partlcular, more than 640 kinds of educational equlpment were
purchased durlng the Project perlod, and more than 90 professore benofltted
from overseas research & study sabbatlcals based upon the I8RD Loan, whlch
also enabled the Project to make a great contribution to the substantial
development of the inetltute, especially in the educatlonal area.
114.      The effects of thie IBRD Loan project (2427-Ko) can be suammarLzed as
below.
-    Establlihment of a contlnuous in-house oducatlon system for the
elite ln science and technology, in order to achieve an advanced
industrlal society.
-    Contribution to industrial development by transferrlng R & D results
and technology, obtalned through roinforcement of research
capabilitles, to hlgh-level applied sclence & technology, as well as
lmprovement in the research level of baslc science.
-    BEtablishment of the instltute as a world-class graduate school ln
science & engLneerLng, thus able to play a central role in
relnforcing the bases for advanced sclence and technology.



- 32 -
TABLE 9 STUDENTS"' RaOISTRTION RECORD & PLhN
(Unit: Person'
Class     \      Year  '13-'      16 as  '8N    'a8    '89    '90    '91    '92    '93
Realat- -1,.289        483    487    615    612    7i0    800    860    900
students
Master's
Progrna     Research       551       48     41      33     41      50     50      60     S0
Students
Sub-tota I    1.840    531    528    548    5$3    800    850    900    910
Regular        463     187    230    239    250    300    300    400    400
Student
Doctorate   Research        176      84      66     76      10     80      80      80     t0
Progrsas    Student
Sub-total      639     271    296    315    330    380    380    480    480
Total     2.479      802      824   863    883  1.110    1.2311 1.3   1.430
The  ears 199  and thereafter represent lfture plans
TALEit STUDENTS' GpADUATION RzCoRD & PLAN
(Unit: Person)
Class     \      Year  '8-86    'N    'I7    I'n           '89    '9I     '       9 I92    '9
he             3 tIr6 1    430 14    417    60                497    727    776
pregfu       losssfek        IS      197    103      41      S.     39      31      39     47
students                                        6 o* 
.Sb-total   1.40       640    5U33    S1Z    S 50              M 6     " 3S
Regulr         1in             _9  104 i  105    16.    184    191    209
Stedent
Decterste   Research          S       17      22     29      3       67      64     66      76
Progrms    Student
kb-tstal       164       72    121    133    131   2I7    m 28    217    276
Total      1,564  j620    654    646    6421  1481  796  1,-0231.099
* The years 1990 sad terfterief represent future ples



- 33 -
TABII 3*   UMBER OF PROFESSORS AND RECORD OF THESIS
PUBLICATION, BY YEAR
(U.lt: Perses. Thesis: Title)
Year                       lot   '82   '83    -4 '6    '86  I'l  __6    Total
No of Professors            83    90   103   117   136   143   150   156          -
Domestic       129   131   149   163   20    193   21 2t    t     1.443
Theses
Publisked    Overseas        110   113   192   183   274   192   31       J 335    1.817
Total       239   244   341   346   474   465   5        6301 a   . 2
TABLE 4s  NUMBR OF sTUDzTs a FUTURz PLaNs
(Unit: Person)
Class     \      Year   'N6    '57    I'l       89   1'"       lit     92
Regular      915    949           10641  1,276  1,144  1.664
Nosier's
Pregran      Research    220    153    123    114    12is    1         14
Students 
Sub-total 1.135  1.112  1.116  1,155  1,399  1.704  1.613
Roeglari    579    654    790    933  1.049  1.116  1.277
Student
Doctoraet    Resfer      312    372    436    493    546    56    S
Pogram       Studes
Sutotal   891  1.0I 6 1,.2U$  1.42$  11.59   1.16  1t.56
Total          2,S26  2.165  2,346  1.61  2.93  3 .360  3.60"
No 3f Prof.          143    150    156    11  2t 0         2I     307
Students: Prof.        14:1   14:1   15:1   13:1 113:1 I  1I:1   12:1
*?e years n0 sod thereafter represt f1tsre votes.



- 34 -
TABLE 5s  GRADUATINO  STUDENTS ' EMPLOYNENT RECORD, BY YEAR
o Masters
(Unit: Person)
Agency \Year '7S-'83   -4   '8s5   '16   '87   '38   Total           3
Eduestiou        345      15    10      2     7            3 38     .1
Institute
Researek         638      20   210   203   127    IS   1.285   26.9
Institute          __
Coverment        110      It     9      9      4     6      149    3.1
Ageacy                                                           I
Industril        lS      267   238   190   223   235   1.938   40.5
Entity_                         __
Doctorate        289      95   137   144   172   177   1,014   21.2
Course                              I                                     I
Others              I      I    -      - _  I                 9    0.2
-  - -1.  --                                 -
Total          2,075    412   604 14    533   51    4.784   100
o Docton
(Unit: Parses)
4oeucy \Year '71-'3    '64   'SI        _     '871  '111   Total
Eductilo.         45      16    31    24    33    50   1in            36
lnstitluteI
Resou eb           31     20    24    35    71    35         232      42
les I lutel 
Ceveuummt     13       1      I       -                  15    2.?
lad_strlal       2i        6    _       10    I?1   42       104   115.0
Otbers              .  [                .      -  I      I           0.1
Total             110      43    64    72   12  Ft           55     too



- 35 -
TABLZ   is  RESEARCH CONTRACTS , AND ASSOCIATE FU S,  BY YER
(Unlt:WI,000 (   ) Resesrch case)
Year    Special         Entrusted       Basic          Subistal
Resecrtch      Resserch       Research
'72-'8l1                   1.457.386        914,420      2.371.80
(282)          (443)          (72S)
'82          428.496       651,050        252,714      1.332.260
(4)           (87)           (84)          (175)
'83        1,100.698       651,415        161.210       1,913,363
(8            (77)           (65)          (175)
'84        1.764,754     1.300,142        271.800       3.336.69
(19)          (79)           (96)           (194)
'85        1,470,268     1.447.792         340.900      3.258.960
(29)          (91)           (124)          (244)
'86        2,699,328     1.741,761         548.452      4.989.541
(51)          (114)          (128)          (293)
'87        2.945,383     1.827,576         596,000      5,368.959
(U)          (105)           (129)          (320)
'8         3,440.485     2.163.494         611.00       6.214.97,
(93)         (10)           (139)          (30)
Total      13,849,412    11,240.619       3.696.536      ,1786.564
(290)         (943)        (1,228)         (2.U1)



- 36 -
PLC  PhI   ROMN BO         R' S PPECT!V
(By Korea Science and Engineering FoundatLon, November 1990)
1. Proiokt EvaluatLon
115.      Through this program, KOSEF was to promote scientific and
toechnologlcal development capabliLty in Korea by cultivating higher qualLty
scientific and technologlcal manpowor hoping to brLng lt to the same level of
advanced countrles, a level deemed indispensable to economic and LndustrLal
development from a long-range perspective. tWill's total research support
funds for FY88 amounted to 9,840 mlllion won (equLvalent to 14 million
dollars) or only 4.2% of total rosearch funds for a11. unlversities reachLng
232.800 million won (or 333 milllon dollars).
116.      For this reason, lt was hard to expect to fulfill all needs of the
academic and research coamunities. Nevertheless, tWSil has had a positive
impact on the academlc communltles of Korea. Because KOSIF's funds for FY83
amounting to 1,811 million won increased as much as five times to 9.840
million won for FY 1988.
AINUAL RlS3ARCH BUDGET
lzaure I
(Unit : K  bil     v)
lOK                                                     w  ;---Tow
O0K
OK
aL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'83        '84         '85         'l         '87         '188
,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    a



- 37 -
IN=I
____   '83     '84        85      186          '87       '88
Endowment Interest         811      1,659     1,275    1,276      1.264      1,250
Government Budget        1.000        740     1.374    4.950      5,050      6.500
IBRD Loan                 -           464     1,713    1.967      3,286      2.090
Total               1.811      2.863      4.362    8,193      9.612      9.840
117.      This enabled us to double the number of grantees from 5% in 1983 to
1014 in 1988. In selecting research proposals, major emphasis was placed on
the researchers' performance in the past, their potential research capability
and the projects' 'significance. with the target of maximizing qualitative
improvements in research. The expectation was that research assistance could
encourage them to consider scientific questions and help contribute to the
improvement of their academic research capability in their professional
fields. Also, it aimed at cultivating creative researchers by providing
graduate students with more opportunities to engage in positive research
activities. Analysis of the results of our research support showed that 3
graduates have taken part in a research project and published 2 research
papers in professional academic journals.
118.      During the loan project implementation from  84 through  88, KOSEF
provided 5.441 research projects with a total grant of 36,681 million won.
Twenty six percent of that amount was provided by IBRD loans.  The figure was
quite far from the original plan to keep the portion of the IBRD loan share at
10 % of research support. IBRD loans, however. have served greatly as a
catalyst in increasing KOSEF funding for research support.  Total research
funds for FY88 amounting to 9.840 million won have increased to 17,575 million
won for FY 1989. showing nearly a 100 % increase over 1988.
Conclusion
119.      The successful implementation of KOSEF's research program was made
possible through a rigorous Peer Review System in considering research
proposals, high quality advice and consultation in 15 priority fields provided
by Members of Program Development and Review Committee and KOSEF's excellent
administrative support. The effects of the loan project are as follow:
-    On a national level, it helped greatly produce world famous
scientists and strengthen their scientific and technological
research capability by encouraging them to present their research
results in international conference.
-    Increased research funds have facilitated the research management
capability of universities.



- 38 -
With the increased government'w interest in the research actLvitLes
of universities, KOSEF's research funds were greatly increased.
In an effort to improve the research management capability of KOSEF.
it has increased the staff of 25 in 1984 to 101 in 1990.



PART III:   STATISTICAL INPORMATION
A. RELATED BANK LOANS
Table 1. IBRD/IDA LOANS/CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan/Credit Number       Year of           Purpose of Project              Status                Comments
Project Title            Approval
Cr 151-KO                   1969       Expansion of vocational high       Completed    Successful project and
First Education Project                schools, junior technical          9/76          satisfactorily implemented.
colleges and teacher training.
Ln 906/Cr 394-KO            1973       Improvement of vocational high    Completed    Implemented substantially as    '
Second Education Project               schools, junior technical          12/79        planned.  Line management
colleges and science,                           evolved from Project
engineering and education                       Implementation Unit.
g                            colleges.
Ln 1906-KO                  1975       Expansion and quality              Completed    Successfully implemented with
Third Education Project                improvement in vocational high    11/81         growing experience and compe-
schools, junior colleges and                    tence of local staff.
vocational training institutes.
(VTIS)
Ln 1474                     1977       Further expansion of VTIs, and    Completed    PCR concluded that the pro-
Vocational Training                    expansion and improvement of       06/83        ject was well designed,
Project                                instructor training.                            implemented efficiently and
judged it to be an excellent
example of Bank/Borrower
cooperation.



Loan/Credit Nu&.A *r     Year of           Purpose of Project             Status                Comments
Project Title            Approval
La 1800-X0                 1980        Improving junior technieal        Completed    A sector program successfully
Sector Program on Higher               colleges and colleges of          02/86         implemented.
Technical Education                    engLneering and management
through supply of equipment,
staff development, manpower
planning, equipment maintenance
and academic accreditation.
Ln 3037-K0                 1989        Enhancing the capacity of two     Effective    Being implemented
Technology Advancement                 research institutions to          on
Prfoject                               provide technical support to      08/10/89
small and medium industries and                                                 o
export certifieation on quality
and improving the quality of
science and engineering
education at one key
university.
Ln 3202-K0                 1990        Improving the research capacity   Effective    Being iupl _ented
Second Technology                     of one leading graduate school   on
Advancement Project                    in sclence and engineering and    11/08/90
enhancing R and D capaeitLes in
the areas of biotechnology,
basic and industrial standards,
and energy and resource
utilization.
Ln 3203-10                 1990       Enhancing basic research           Effective    Being implemented



Loan/Credit Number       Year of           Purpose of Project             Status                coments
Project Title            Approval
Universitles ScLence and               programs in selected              on
Technology Research                    universities in priority fields   11/08/90
Project                                in science and technology and
improving science teacher
training.



B. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM                             PLANNED                    REVISED              ACTUAL
Identification Mission            November 1981                   -            November 1981
Preparation by Government         Dec. 1981 to Feb. 1982          -            Dec. 1981 to Feb. 1982
Pre-Appraisal Mission             March/April 1982                -            March/April 1982
Preparation Mission                                               -            June/July 1983
Appraisal Mission                 October 1983               September 1983    September 1983
Post-Appraisal Mission            January 1984               February 1984     February 1984
Loan Negotiations                 April 1984                      -            April 1984
Board Approval                    May 1984                        -            May 1984
Loan Signature                    June 1984                       -            June 1984
Loan Effectiveness                 September 1984                 -            September 1984
Project Completion                June 1988                       -            June 1989
Loan Closing                      June 1989                       -            January 1990 La
Coooent    The Government had second thoughts on project size and loan amount after pre-appraisal mission
and thie caused delays and required further preparation after pre-appraisal.
L Date of closing of the loan account (Jan. 9, 1990), although the loan was closed on schedule on
June 30, 1989.



I~~~~~~~)                                     Z
|_                       \\             >~~~~~~~
|s                         \\          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                   j
|   | I                         \      m~~~~~
_                                  8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
_~~~~~~~~~
* - Et -~~~~~~~a



- 44 -
C. Loan DibMrseMns
,Tablh 3s CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISDURSEM3NTS
Bank FY                      1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
Appraisal Fstlmates           5.0      16.5     44.5      85.0    100.0        -
Actual                        3.2      10.0     36.4      70.9     91.4    96.5
Actual as % of Estimate        64        61       82        83       91       97
Date of Final Disburement                                              01/09/90



us *   1 TIME UNE OF PLANNED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
100 
90 -
60 
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
:t        ,                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
30                       A.
20-,
40
a.. I          .
-.        .I .         .    ...
fY I96    1996     1967     19661    1U@     1990
-U



- 46 -
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Taale 4 PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS Ii
Planned       Actual        Months       Percentage
Project Components      Completion    Completion    of delay       dlfferences
Date Ik        Date      (or advance)       f- for
advance)
Ministry of Education EMOE)
Inatructional equipment,    March, 1988       Juno, 1989        15     33%
books and materials
Specialists' services       June, 1987        March, 1989       21     58%
Fellowships                 June, 1988        December, 1989   18      38%
Repatriation of scholars    June, 1988        June, 1988        -      -
Studies                     June, 1987        March, 1989       21     58s
Korea Science and EngLneering Foundation (KOSF)
Specialists* service        June, 1988        November, 1986   (19)   -40%
Fellowships                 December, 1987   September, 1987  (3)    -7%
Research grants              June, 1989       March, 1989       (3)    -5%
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technoloav (KAISTI
Instructional equipment,    March, 1988       June, 1989        15     33%
books and material.
Specialists' services       June, 1988        October, 1989    16      33%
Fellowships                 December; 1987   June, 1989         18     43%
Repatriation of scholars    September, 1987  June, 1989         21     54%
[& There was no extension of Closing Date for this loan.
Ik As taken from Schedule of Implementation, Annex 13 Chart 1 of SAR (Report
No. 4891-KO) dated May 1, 19M4



- 47 -
B. PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 5s INVESTMENT PROGRAM COSTS
(US$ million)
Aporaisal Estimate                      Actual Costs /a
Component Local Coats Foreign Costs Total Local Costs Foreign Costs Total
MOE            295.7         296.8       592.5      80.5           74.4       154.9
KOSEF            20.3         30.6        50.9       n.a. /b       12.0        12.0
KAIST            30.0         21.7        51.7       n.a. L         9.9         9.9
Total          346.0         349.1       695.1      80.5           96.3       176.8
/a  Actual costs were inaccurate due to inadequate information from XOSEF and KAIST
and incomplete information from MOE (see Note for Table 6)
ib Not available from reports submitted by KOSEF and KAIST.



- 48 -
Table 6 PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Source of Funds            Planned            Reviced           Final
(am in Staff Appraisal Report)
IBRD Exgenditure Cat2goriSs
MOE                        78.0              77.8             74.4
KOSEF                      12.0              12.0             12.0
KAIST                      10L.I                              -Li
sub-total               100.0              99.8  1k         96.3  |c
Domestic
MOE from Government       347.5               -               591 .
from private sector   1!673               -               21L4  lsub-
total                       514.8               -               80.5
ROSEF from Government      38.9               -                n.a.
KAIST from Government      41.6               -                na.
sub-total, domstic      595.3               -               80.5
TOTAL                     695.3  Ia           -              176.8
Ii Includes $0.2 million Front-end fee
1k After deducting Front-end fee and rounded.
j| Adding $0.2 million Front-end fee, thLs becomes the total amount of loan
fund dLsbursed ($96.5 mllion).
1d Government funds diffused in varlous budgeting categories could not be
extracted out accurately for lnvestment program costings. Thli applies to
private sector, too.
n.a. Not avallable from Reports submltted by MOSEF and KAIST.



- 49 -
Tble 7 t ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Origlnal             Actual
Allocation         Dlburs em nt
Ministry of Education (MORI
(1)  Instructional equipmnt,          60,000,000         68,689,424.16
books and materials
(2)  Consultants' servLces,           10,000,000          5,763,371.83
fellowships, studies and
repatriation costs
(3)  Initial deposit in the            1,000,000                   0.00
MOE Special Account
Korea Science apd Enginsegina Foundation (I0SEF)
(4)  Consultants, services               400 000             73,358.30
and fellowships
(5)  Research grants                    9,700,00         11,896,715.70
(6)  Initial deposit in the            1,000,000                  0.00 
KOSEF Special Account
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology IKAISTfi
(7)  Instructional equipment,          6,200,000          7,244,355.00
books and materials
(8)  Consultants' services,            2,700,000          2,611,764.63
fellowships and
repatriation costs
(9)  Initial deposit in the              300,000                  0.00
KAIST SpecLal Account
other
(10) Pront-ond fee                       249,377            249,377.00
(11) Unallocated                       7 750 623                  PAN
TOTAL                         100,000,000         96,528,366.62
Amount of loan cancelled                            3,471,633.38



- so -
In The three negative residual amounts, -19,913.92 Ln Category 3, -3,634.16
in Category 6 and -407.66 in Catogory 9, were absorbed into categories
(1), (5) and (7) respectively. The residual amount, if negative, Lo a
gain for the Borrower, and this is caused by exchange rate fluctuations,
(ws- memorandum dated February 5, 1990 from Mr. U.K. Phung).



F. PROJECT RESULTS
Table 8(a): DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
I. Expand Selectivel' Graduate Education:
Area                                           Number of Applying Graduate Schools       Number Selected
Science                                                        15                                7
[Science Education, see comments (iii)]                         -                               -
Engineering                                                    16                                8
Total                                                     31                               1S
Comments:    (i) Policy objective on concentration of resources for quality improvement was achieved.
(ii) In the guidelines for allocation of loan proceeds, no more than 15 subprojects for science
and engineering graduate programs would be financed (para. 2.03 of SAR), and this was not
exceeded.
(iii) For area of education at graduate level, the Korea National University of Teacher Bducation
(KNUTz) was established in 1985 as center of excellence.



UII Strenathen the Research Content of Advanced Trainina
(a) From Loan Fund only:
84     85       86       87       88    Total
No. of JOSEF Projects
for Research Grants    61      216      234     517      324    1,352
Amount of Grant
(Won million)          465    1,664    1,967    2,344    1,668    8,252
Comments: Through the component of JOSEF, the amount of research in terms
of both project number and size of grant has been significantly
increased, and the objective of strengthening research
therefore achieved.
ur
(b) From all sources (data for three years only were available):
1986                   1987                  1988                    Total
Area         No. of Grants Amount No. of Grants Amount No. of Grants Amount No. of Grants Amount
Science           343        1,424        10          265       28          774        381       2,463
Engineering       415        3.526       128        4.785       15726                  704       14.037
IL7          9         138        5.05        189       6.500      la08u       16.500
Cogm :nts  It can be seen that the total funding for three years only is about twice as much as the amount
of loan fund for XOSEF in five years. This shows that the Governmnt is committed to the policy
of strengthening research in Korea.



III. Raise Standards of Colleae Proarams in Science and Science Education:
(a)   Expanding Laboratory Facilities (in Science and Technology at Undergraduate and Graduate Levels in
Project Institutions.
% of
1984                       1989                    Increase
No. of Rooms Area (ma)      No of Rooms Area (ma)        (Rooms)  (Area)
Science Departments                587         53,240         1,121       95,084          91       79
Engineering Departments            968         86,038         1,281      114,886          32       34
Education Departments               199        19,497           223       21,637           12      11
Teacher's College                   154        19.545           151       23.354         (-2)      19
Total                       1.908        178.320         2.76       254.961          45      43



(b) Acquiring Experimental Equipment (in Science and Technology) at Undergraduate and Graduate Levels in
Project Institutions.
1984                               1989                  %  Increase
No. of Items  Value (million won)  No. of items  Value (million won)  Items   Value
Science Departments        Q     22,685)                             25,891)                           14
I      8,126)          11,030             9,193)            37,835          13      243
Engineering Departments   Q      22,754}                             30,566)                           34
I      7,970)         21.259             11,944)            37,938         50        78
Education Departments      Q      9,732)                             12,817)                           32             4
I      2,1421           1,907             5,329)             6.480         149      239
Teacher's College          Q      7,943)                             14,216)                           79-
I      2.0731           1.198             4.0421             2.335         95        95
Total  Q                    62,114)                             95,403                           54
20.3111         35.394              36.468            84.588         so       139
No_te: Q Stands for quantity and I, for item. For one item, the quantity may be more than one.
Generally items increased more than the quantity.
Comments    (i)  With this substantial increase in equipment, practical work should have improved.
(ii) In terms of value, the percentage increase is higher for science and education. However, these
may not reflect the true status, as starting base may differ and was not available.



(c) Recruitment and Upgrading of Teaching Staff
(i) Ouantitative Point of View
1984                              1989
No. of   Student/                No. of   Student/           % Increase
Total     Teaching  Teacher      Total     Teaching  Teacher         (-for decrease)
Enrollment   Staff     Ratio    Enrollment    Staff    Ratio   Enrollment  Staff  S/T Ratio
Science Departments          43,087     1,279        34      58,386      1,844       32        36        44       -6
Engineering Departments      35,261       780        45      38.515      1,186       33         9        52      -27
Education Departments         8,632       259        33       5,480        308       18       -37        19      -45
Teacher's College            14.212       532        27      13.613        575      24         -4         a      -11
Total                  101.192     2 850     35.5      115.994      3.913    29.6         15        37      -17
Comments:  (a)  The effort in recruitment of teaching staff is clear, but is still inadequate.  However, the rate of
its increase at 37% is higher than the rate of enrollment increase at 15%. This led to an
improvement in the student/teacher ratio, although still falling short of hopes at the time of
appraisal.
(b) Enrollment decreased in both education departments of universities and teacher's colleges (reflecting
the decrease in demand for tea-hers). Their S/T ratios were comparatively low in 1984, and the
decrease in enrollment makes it easier for further improvements in S/T ratios. The S/T ratios in
1989 at 18 for Education Departments and 24 for Teachers's Colleges are acceptable ratios.
(c)  Enrollment in engineering program  increased by only 9 percent.  This reflects the Government's
policy of shifting from emphasis on quantity to emphasis on quality. The S/T ratio of 33 for
engineering courses is still too high, but the 27 percent improvemnt in S/T ratio is significant and
is in the right trend. Insistence on achieving the arbitrary figure of 20:1 by 1990 is both
unreasonable and unrealistic.



(li) Oualitative Point of view
(1) Bv Oualifications of Staff
Dearees Held by Faculties
1984                              1989                         Channe
Ph.D.   M.Sc.  Lower   TotalLa   Ph.D.   M.Sc.   Lower   TotalLa   Ph.D.    M.Sc.  Lower
Science Departments         651    443       39    1,183     1,338     381     28    1.747        +687   -112    -11
Engineering Departments     280    377       28      685       849     255     20    1,124        +569   -122     -8
Education Departments       145    147       19      311       256      79      8       343       +111    -68    -11
Teacher's Colleges           40    395      100      535       145     368     56      569        +105    -27    -44
Total                 1.116  1412       186    2 714     2.588   1.083    112    3.783    411472   -329        4
/a Both figures in 1984 and 1989 in Table (c)(ii) differ from totals in Table (c)(i) above.
Comments: A clear increase of Ph.D.s and a decrease of both M.Scs. and lower degrees in all four categories. This
is one important factor in the qualitative improvement of science and technology education.



(2)  BV Number of Publications (N.P.). Research Personnel (R.P.) and Research Fundino (R.F)
1984                              1989                    v of Chanos
N.P.     R.P.        R.F.         N.P.    R.P.          R.F.       N.P.    R.P.    R.F.
(million won)                      (million won)
SceLnce Departments           931     1,062       25,138        1,205    1.418        44,779       29      34      78
Engineering Departments       721       523       15.580        1,365     812         60,023       89      55     285
Education Departments         332       317        2,975         414       374         6.070       25      18    104
Total                   1.984     1,902       43,693       2.984    2.604        110.872       50      37     154
Comments: A clear case of improvement.



(d) Decreasino Averaae Teachina Load
Planned Goal for June 30. 1990      Achievements 1987     Achievement in 1990
10 hours per week             11 hours per week        Not Available
Comments:   Although information from the PCR by MOE did not include the number of hours per week in 1990, it is
estimated that the goal has been achieved. From Table (c)(i) above, it can be seen that the average S/T
Ratio has been lowered by 17 percent based on a staff increase of 37 per cent and an enrollment increase
of 15 percent. When the number of staff has increased at a much faster rate than the student enrollbent,
one obvious result is a decrease of teaching load and the use of the time spared for other purposes,
which, most likely, is for research and publications (reference: Table (c)(ii)(2)).
g
"I
l



IV. Imorove Science Uducation at Secondarv Level throuah a
more exoeriment-oriented Science Curriculum
(a) Laboratory Improvement at Hiah School Level
1984 /a                        1989        2            Increase
No. of Roome  Area (m )      No. of Rooms   Area (m2)      (Roaos)   (Area)
In six cities               808         78.375           1,186       115,715         47       48
In nine provinces         1.164         .94115           1.600       131.508         37       40
Total                1.972         172.4902.786                 247.223         41        43
/a  See next page.



(b)  2qulRnit laReamont at Riah School LAoel
1984 La                                1989                      1 Increase
In nine province.       No. of ite.   Value (million won)   No. of items  Value (mlllion won)   (Items)   (value)
In six cities      Q       372,249                              1,192,927                             220
I         9,067             2.479              15.6'0            11,855            72       378
In nine provinces Q       1,390.135                             2.116,082                              52
I        45 145            13.552              78.356            19.233            74        42
Total            Q      1,762,384                             3.309,009                              88        94
I        54.212            16.031              93.966            31.088            73
La  Information was incomplete, e.g. no value for seoul; no data for Taejon, data for which were included in             q
Chungnaa Province before Taejon was made a city.
cco at:  (i)   The data, while clearly showing improvements in both facilities and equipment, also show higher
increase ln the six cities. This should not be interpreted as discrimination against rural areas.
because there is a migration from provinces into citles, thus increasing the demand for high
schools in cities with increased population, and decreasing the demand in provinces.
(ii)   The 88% increase in quantity and the 94% increase in value should have made an impact in  science
education at secondary level.



(c) Curriculum Imorovement at Hich School Level
In 1987. the Ministry of Education (MOB) comnissioned Korea Education Development Institute (KEDI)
for a _;urriculum reform study. The overall reform period, including the related work of texibook
revision, standard equipment list rewriting, in-service training and the implementation of the new
curriculum, would extend to 1992. One of the result is more emphasis on science and
experimentation in the new curriculum.
(d) Staff Imorovement in Hiah Schools
1984               1989           % Changes
Unrollinnt                       1.251.961           1.649.884             32%
Total Teaching Staff                52,658              73.787             40%
Student/Teacher Ratio                 23.8                22.4             -6%
Science Teaching staff               5,617               8,094             44%
Laboratory Assistant                     46                543          1,080%
Co        (nts  (1)  Number of staff has made overall improvam nt of 40%, but number of science
teaching staff has increased by 44%   Further, the number of laboratory
assistants has increased nearly 12 time. Theme should also have made an
impact on science education at secondary level.
(2)  Further, 116,025 staff (including double and treble counts for recelving
training again after an elapsed period) had receLved short duratlon in-
service training in Korea during 1984-1988S and 2,076, outside Korea during
sae period.
(3) Hence staff improved both quantitatlvely and qualitatively.



Table-8(b):   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. The Korea Council for University Education (KCUE) performed accreditation work continuously. (Reference
Table 9 on Project Studies Report No. 4 by XCUE on Evaluation of Science and Engineering Education at
Undergraduate and Graduate Levels in Korea.)
2. The Korea National University of Teacher Education (KNVTE) was established in 1985. Despite initial
setbacks caused by a decreasing demand for teacher education, KNUTE had reached its full capacity of
2.000 in enrollment in 1989.
3. The Science Education Development Committee (SEDC) was established in MOE in October 1986. SEDC has
contributed, inter alia, in systematic monitoring and evaluation of secondary science eduction
(Reference Table 9 on Project Studies-Study Reports Nos. 5,7, and 9).
4.  The Science and Tecnnology Bureau was established within MOE in 1986. The Science and Technology
Education Division was ' vided into two divisions:  Science Education Division (SED) and Vocational
Education Division. Str.' in SED was increased to 16 from 9 instead of the planned figure of 15.
5.  College entrance examination system was changed in 1988 and will be further changed in the early
nineties.



Table Wei i SOURCE OF FINANCING FOR PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT IN THE AREA OF NATURAL SCIENCES
(The purpose of this table is to illustrate the direct benefit to private institutions,
through an example in one area, i. ., Natural Sciences, as similar information for
engineering and education collages had not been included in the PCR prepared by MOE).
Eouiument Purchased                    Source of Financina
Beneficiary        Items          Amount              IBRD             Government     Others        % Financing
(Won million)     --     ------- (--(won million)--------------    from Loan 2427-0O)
16 National
Universities    16,026           29,238           20,808               3,617         4,813            71%
(US$26.8 million)
(or 76% of Total
18 Private
Universities    35,615           13,515            6,583                  86         6,846            49%
(US$8.5 million)
______                      tor 24% of Total)
Total       51.641           42.753           27.391               3.703        11.659            64%
(US$35.3 million)
Comments:  (1)  According to the guidelines on allocation of Loan Proceeds, about 30% should be for private
universities. The 24% achieved is therefore satisfactory in light of the effort made in 1985
through a Supplemental Letter for amendments on the guidelines for the purpose of increasing private
institution participation. The lack of success of this effort was partly caused by the Government's
introduction of an equipment leasing system at that time, as a result of which, the private
institutions had one more option than borrowing from the Government.
(2)- Private Universities obtained 51% of financing from Goiernment and others (mostly others) and only
49% from IBRD. This showed that private institutions, unlike national universities, did enjoy
significant financing from other sources.



- 64 -
Table 9s PROJECT STUDIES
Title of Study               Date of Reoort  Status       Impact
1.  Improvement of High-     December, 1985  Completed   Used for manpower
Quality Manpower                                      planning.
Supplying System in
Areas of Advanced
Science and Technology.
2. Optimum Standard Lists   March, 1986       Completed   Served the purpose
of Laboratory and                                     for equipment
Practical Equipment for                               planning and
Higher Education.                                     procurement.
3. The Expansion Plan of   April, 1986       Completed   Used by Graduate
Research Facilities in                                Schools and
Graduate Education.                                   University Education
Office of MOE.
4. Evaluation of Science    September,        Completed   Used by University
and Engineering zduca-   1986                         Education Office of
tion at Undergraduate                                 MOE.
and Graduate Levels in
Korea.
5. DeveloPment of            December, 1986  Completed   Used by Bureau of
Improvement Plans and                                 Elementary and
Monitoring systms                                     Secondary Education
based on the Status                                   of MOE.
Survey of High School
Science Education.
6. Mld-term Evaluation of  October, 1987   Completed   Served as basis for
the 6th IBRD Education                                the Bank/Borrower
Sector Loan.                                          joint mid-term
review.
7. Development of            December, 1987  Completed   An up-date of the
Improvement Plans and                                 1986 Report.
Monitoring System based
on the Statue Survey of
Secondary SceLnce
Education.



- 65 -
S. Sffectlve AcquLLtLon   Decomber, 1987  Comploted   Used by MON.
of Educational
gquLpment, Inventory
Management System and
Cooperative
UtliLsation.
9. Development of            Decsmber, 1988  Completed   An up-date of the
Improvemnt Plans and                                 1987 Report.
Monltorlng System based
on the Status Survey of
school Sclence
Zducation.
10. Mld- and Long-term       March, 1989     Completed   Vsed by Unlversity
Improvement Plans for                                EducatLon OffLce of
AcquLsLtLon of                                       MOE.
EducatLonal Research
EquLpment ln Colleges.
Cgrnts:  The Studies formed a sound base for policy dialogue within the
Government and arising from such dLalogue, four concrete
reco=nendations were proposed:
a) The need to expand graduate educatlon 
b) The ned to establish unlveraLty affliLated research
institutes (Thli became one component, 7JoLnt Rsearch
FacliLtLes", of the recent UnlversLtLes Sclence and
Technology Research Project under Loan 3203-NO.) 
c) The need to develop assocLated programs to support a) and
b) above# and
d) the need to strengthen the fLnancLal status of the prlvate
and regional unlveraLtlie as well an to Lnsure their
sustaLnabliLty. (In Loan 3203-KO, about 20% of loan
proceeds would be allocated to prlvate universitLes, at
least 30% to regional unlversltles for graduate schools of
science and englneerlng and JoLnt research faclities Mnd
at least 50% to reglonal unLveraLtLes for schools of
science education).



0. STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
Table lO COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Sectlon No.        Paragraph No.                                        Status of Compliance and
in Loan Agre ement       in SAR                DescriptLon               Deadline Dates, if applicable
3.05                3.11           Finance Sub-projects ln         No deadline date and in full
accordance wlth guidelines     compllance.
and crlterla satLsfactory      BllglbilLty crlteria agreed to be
to the Bank.                   relaxed by Dank ln letter dated
5/14/85.
3.06                3.11           Select Natlonal Programs        No deadline date and ln full
in accordance and crlterla     compliance. 
satLsfactory to Bank.
3.07            2.07 and 2.14      Award fellowshlp in             No deadline date and ln full
accordance with selectlon      compliance.
crlteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08(a)              2.18          Review progress annually        In full compliance.
and jointly with the Bank
on the Actlon Plan and
indicators.
3.08(b)              4.09          Prepare annually a              In full compliance.
financial plan for private
graduate schools, colleges
and high schools to ensure
thelr quality
fimprovemnts.



Section No.        Paragraph No.                                        Status of Compliance and
in Loan Agreement        in SAR                 Description              Deadline Dates, if applicable
3.08(c)              3.14          Hold mid-term review on         Not later than October 31, 1987.
progrems achieved.             Held in November/December 1987.
4.02(c)              4.15          Furnish annually audit          By June 30 of each year.
reports on project             Submitted annually but after the
accounts and a separate        deadline date.
auditor's opinion on
statements of
expenditures.
3.04(d)              4.15          Submit to the Bank a            Not later than six months after
project completion report.     the Closing Date of the Loan.
Instead of submitting a project
completion report for the Loan,
the borrower submitted three
reports, one for each project
institution, (MOB, KARST and
0DSE). OSF submitted the
report on 6/30/90, six months
later than deadlne date.



w sn APe ~~~EDC^A D
Aeta Prn.re  emi Seta  bIdo -blanid Intitetrnl O.l              im-: 1
Action  Taken by April 15, 1964              Coepi ac with Plad Action Program
IhJectiwealStrategias                                                                                at mid-ter, "wise                  Actim  Takes by Clei  Daet  me _     , 
1. O..Tr i.l1n.we Ra...c   To
(a) sG r )wrf     iait o  graduate progrmam  aoverent a  se alisted in the cr"atIn of te        lMM  me assignd the teak ftar imdsrtilig    M gm ewaluatin  welgal itof hi,hr
In, Saloe WAonltoerw  bi _nes            Ma. an  _ oiatio of all c ll*                                                                                          Wasiti  io   :IS::.e"   f _t_i_i t"_   dy
In aceeca  ad egineeing b  mae KOa, n aaecison ofall  oilre  and           accreditetisn as 9/18/IS with a coat of      education is aivariis  a  mlai
ot #radte p rrm ac imm      ttiin.       universities in Kor. lb. Comic                      aim 84k5,,o0amfor one year.                   cotieiwily.
prom ot    lity edactien by coasdut   rwig"
and avaluatione at highr educatio                       toel  "ear developed la Sebtohr, 195.     Eraluatism of KAIXT puigm  y  n aetereal
Mcainden appropriate policlee. Stoag, ai         beetlinmairie sre developed is December.   vimitims Committee, bad met"ee  carried WAt.
initiate  frgraduate progre  accraditetion          1965 dietrilhited thereafter mod cellacted   Niein  sire me clear.
under       is egl of the new MM. ProrsIs lhrch 156. Raaulte were aslyad ned
valti n at K           would be cd      tby n       Computerized is fSy I6. Field wielt
eaternal visiting cmmittee.                         wre sod  ln Jan low. hipr  ams
iatted is Septeber 1_.
(b) Conce_ntrt remrces  for gradate           coveremet ba decided to diegt selece                A remor is the le 1o era deelopmet pl_    lbb  arth er ction,     eaocommo
education Is the aclc   an              g      tunivrsities for acience ai                   for graduate eoducation sea emes tted in
nmnrieg i. fewr intitutiona,            enginerIng fields.   uid1las, wnd oiglitty         Jul 1ea. (*b a StudY finac   from th         Te 1s owbprejectewe mstiaasmwrll
with leaad speclalization ame           cri teria fo  sutloan  en  aesistance  =_            Projet thu  mt to Table 9: P        TMh * iopleamei.
imetlitioen  to be reflected In the     natioa l prore  for eraduate sool we,S                       .
levtmawt  lan for focilitle "a         received by Seek etaff an  are acceptable to e v
aqulpect.Sa.Tityia(1etpect  ngdae
were approve (I for dc_once an I fer
gIrlng). AlthJgo 10 w_r    sat
origInally on ground. of coenAratln of
r         eo m  Ire this SS' _m Itipulaedfi
in the guidelis" for Allcteen of Lei_
Fund, as 1U wa ntnsiderd te be
sace aive. Th g    _ en_ co
reeourcse  se therefre achIed l. ent of
th Is only _O sire, ftrnt Seol the
other IS were all regional itiutZln.
Te oebjecwv  of regional diatriihutio  of
loew f"s  (at lot    autld be
allocated to imetitutoas oautlds the
Soul ar) er tlaeretore aiso aclieved.
Cc) Strengthen the hay inetitutlis for       NO5W  prepared a davelopeint plan to eapand          Ax easope for Sm  an beisuch Grans           Touti euntritw gfowets lin threejerabetmeis
promoion and fidIno of re rh in          upo    et of ademIC remerch in science WA           distriud by byMM  east                        19  and lLi    . 1   95 of  i  9=    OM)
eeppo  of national ecianc  an             c lo  . KOMhra reviwe  priority fIelds                                                          were for sciece ai 70  (GM  for _nagaeorue
techolegy gle.                           in relatoiL  to the MM  plan for sclens an          C M  to heel and a_ plied  dciec, and    projects.
technlogy developait. NObW  prpared an                 to ne  e ni   fields by fund; sod
inveatwent plan for academic reaarch euggort        (h) STS _id 41t rpetilwely by nui  of    Toutl _aes of doant  mea _ 1.511) million
Indicatise proposed allocations, to priority        projectsa. lheae were Oale, lo the 64  WAn    or 552.2 esitio Ilacceadigt         rg
filds4 and alao developed a plan for                40velae.edeg  rate Ia thI peled  NF!&.14 wa.t
strengthening N0W  mosinagmat. Seek atff                                                         18. I  aiu  .1g)  aefr cec
revIewed the lnveeteent plan WAn  the plan for      Staff Increase v" admave. Tbs terge          en   40785. te   misae               orlag
strngthening 10EF singent and found both            of 45 by 195 has ml read *1teenoo   cd.
plan   e onabl.                                      es the saber Mee reached 80.                Th total  mt of reat  e fea  the sat
Of 1is  ftd fer  _,  _becawi OnWa_mA%t WA
endaomante sire almes mcee of tundiws.
Ces,ared  ith 1W  reort tha trend *e a
G:h _141,SOeMi- free eOt eAC* o ennerng.
n~wore net cloe.r but cloeeLry there ea"
a cha    is U W's plan.
Stf lsces wi  owe '          achieved (WA
nOAe endow esim for eid-twoe review.).



Coplilance with Ple   Action program
Acjtxion)s  s; TakenbyAprilIS.194                      at midtenm  review              AIIStio  Takeos by Cdomingt" _*ne aS. 145
(d) I    e collaboration aown graduate   iM   has budget  for reserch collaboration with   VAiST am implementing its plan for                see atta_b      . to_a   1.
tcolt   reearch  intittes by            universities and with erivate industry.   ST M    has   eapanaionofgraduteadwcation.
rCo  ntic n in priusto teaching tn     formally instructe  moor rearch institutes to        apecially a the Ph.D leel
in Joint reseah,                       appoint training coordinatwor from amoni  te
research peraomnel to organize a"d eupervise
asiatance to gradte students from
universitates who would undertake dissertation
reserch st reeerch Institutee. Among reuarci
institutes, KAMST, in particular serves as a
mioar center- for university faculty development.
VAST is also conducting parttim graduate
tftw  foximtaly  0              ennt dt
&nter  in     i nstituts*.
te) DOetmp within the network of            The Government dcided to esteblidm  the Korean      The Korea hationl Uiret f Te                    11 e      re  initil diffiltes 
colleges of education, a epecial lied    National University of Teacher Education for      Edution (IWOE) *w  stal imed in larch    being wnble he reach its full morelaleast
center for gradute training and for    coerneant of operation In larch 196.  ink           186 *  lonned. pcapacty of 2,400 is IS du  to deraaai
reerch sad dveIopmant In aciece        steff reviowed proeals for gradte traingi                                                        d-m  of teaches in the job whet.
edu can.                               and research in eence educeain                                                                   sit* ion impr-w  sad the fell capaity bad
agreed to include under siabprojecte an allocation                                              bees reached is II459og onl e  year bobied
fat gradute training in sclenco education.                                                      opapmnsw.
subject to preparation of detailed loma
i_-Kilifi   1   it_  sn          apliction
ttisn~~a rt n n ell hef
at
a)Contel qality of scienc  prora       Se Secio   (a).                                     See Sctien ICa).                             Se Sacle  1(a).
by moas" of a college of natural
SCience accreditation.
(b) Sncreas   mber an  uwarad                corneet Mee prepared faculty develomeant WA       trcruit   n  upgaing of tff in                See Tabl S.
qualificatioe of fac ulty esmbre in    faculty recruitsnt plan  for college of             proqres.
colloge of e;dution aid Colleg" of    duction, colleg1  Af naturl cne 
natural scin. Continue                 cologe  of engineeri. National program for
recruitmEnt program for faculty of     faclty dwaeownt a   recruitment ge  deeliied
coll_ege of etnginring,                and coeted.  _ark staff review  teh plumen
found then reasonable.
(c) Prpare an iaprovomnt pla  for           olsF has pree  re d euip                  l     Ite  Facilitis Improwement and    ip             S" Table 2.
facilities N  equipment.               by  ubject ar.  Equipmt fer clae of                 procurement in program.
education i- prirly fer cience education eN
Cience teaching. Am lnvtant plan based on
San sttaff and foundwXt rensbeSie ine  eunidn
eligibility criteria were agted for purposes of
siiWa*os     subloe nent.
S.il! O^fib^t- i



Obj*ctives/Stratetlies                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Compliance with Planned Action Progras
Objectlvee/Strategiea                          Actions Taken by April 15, 1984                           at midterm review                Actions  Taken bY Closing Dat  June 3D. I19
(a) Design aWn  ipleent new science           O rowornnt has adopted a plan to offer high          Science Education Dsvelepnt Ceomitte           Now curriculum ha been inttrod   for all
currcculur with greater emphasis on      school science courses on both the ordinary and       (SEDC)  as establis*hed in HOE in October     high schoolis ith sore mlasis an ecim" and
primental and practical science          the advanced levels. with science requireent for    1986. The Science ad Technolopy Bureau          e*perimntation. Facilities and euipmt ha
ork and *etablish a mnageent            all students and prepared a lIabi for new cournse    (STI) was also estsbliehd aithen PIlE in       been  improved. #bsber of staff. eapcialy
ncy to overse  and coordinate            to be introduced in 1984.  e  courses would           1916. The Science and Technology              science teaching staff. hnd been increased  nd
overall implesentetion.                  devote about 205 of instructional ti_e in science    Education Division under the Cenoral           in-service training had bean provide. R_aber
to experimantal work. Bank staff reviewed the        Education Bureau before was divided into      of Laboratory assistants had ben
plan for improvement of secondary science            two division under STiB  namely the            significantly incresed, but the gat of to
curriculum. Bank staff and Covernmnt agreed on       Science Eucation Division and the              per chool had not bLen achieved yet.
the creation of the Science Education Dvelopment   Vocational Education Division. The HOE          Developent and progra -  bnd bun cloely
Cemittee (SEDC) to oversee planning and              reorg nization  together with the newly        mnitored by SEDC ad STI of HOE.
implemntatio  of disparate functione of              established SC  enabled further
curriculum dealgn  mterials preparation, teacher   strengthening of science education in the
retraining  evaluation and fdback  nd on staff       education system.
strengthening of the Science nd Vocational
Eduction Division of Ce.
(b)  IntroduA systestic monitoring of          aovornmt and the bn  have agreed on two areas    Studies were in prgreg.                           Four studies ha  bee  comleted    f       :
secondary science education for          that rquire further study. The" are the need                                                        Table 9  Study  epor_t bs.      S 7   d 9).
policy  nalysle.                         for: national surveys to evaluate student                                                           The StWy Reporta lb. S. 7 sad 9         for
performesce for polic;  uidance; end Impro"mnt                                                     Developmnt of IMrovemat Plan  and
o  asseeeamnt dki Il by teachers.                                                                    initoring Systsa b*a    an States swey of
High Schoo  Education _n  ers use  first. by
the eureau of Elementary and Secondary
Education of HE sd Isater elm by tbe as
Science s.d Technology eareau. Report lbt. 8
was for improvement of eqient angsat
and wsa sed by NWB. includ.mg bree- for High
School Educatem.
(c)  AdJut colleg  adaliaons procedures    Since 191 colleg  admission procedures have             Prepration wort for dhmnes i Wh               The col$lg   mission emsio ;;tm   wan;s  Wm
to enable ;ndividual colles  to          taken into account the echool record ad the          col legs sdmision system was in progree.       chans  in 191S. Te  *ytm of h aing
select *tednto by taking acount of    school record Include  a grade for experimental                                                        eas*mition  befer f   lication wN  r
etudeat's overall performance on the    and practical work.  In moat ca, however, only                                                       to have a"lication before samimatien to
entrssc  esainaton, as well ma           a total score  e made avail sbl to Coll    and                                                      eble oe  direct participation of
achievement on the science an            decisions on adision tDo pograms in =c           or                                                 un;iersitieslcollsesa ithe system of
mthe_tice component of ths entrance       nginering are mde without dtailed informtion                                                       selecting their .m etrst T.        d    dC
exa_ination  an on the echool record,   on sudent prior achieveo_t in science and                                                            only o eamiaton remult M  sn *D to
mthew_tic. The effect. of the change to date                                                        tabs into accest bidob schl achievemeats
are Insufficient as an i;-tL: for schools,                                                          including sciene laboratory performasen and
teachers end studente to p a s   emh hnie                                                          interviewa.
scences. The adhol record and the scienc
record Component are not y-steatical ly shared                                                     The system will be farther modifled is abut
with college  selecting student.                                                                    1993 throuo the uoe of aptitud  tests.
(d) Des i  end f mpleent sff                       rared a na a  pogr   for retni ng  In-ervice and   ersea  training me  ln                      Comleted im-ervice shor duration trauiing
doeslopss  rograms for seconday          aduordn   eory        y  cm   ecessd                 prgrae".                                       for 116.020 staff (including double an  treIl
science teecheors  laborary                 c         nc                trnn   n fild                                                        Count. as the meaps eff coid hae  tted
am;tnt aNd sciee education               not currently of    i   col   inr            Bank                                                   several corse  is consecutive years).
apecilist. In rgional science            *taff revi   th  ntIoal rogr   nd found It
Centers  wnd central agencies of nOE.                                                                                                        Completed overse training for 2.06 stff.
Both wer  achieve  Xteree  14 sad lIft.



Cmoeilance with Planned Action Program
Objectivea/Stratesios                          Actions Taken by April 15, 1964                           at Pid-term, review              Actions Taken by Cloeing oto Jo"e 30. S11
4. _e ae*d T  holow Fueation Sector
(a)  Zlroved manpower monitoring for          EPd chairs a manpocer promotion omeittee with        The Stud  Rport an dlmrOeomt of Nish           A contiming manpowr maitor;ng for science
e once and technology sector.           autsority to coordinate mnpower planning to           Ouality    owr Supply ng Systm  in Arms    anW tcI               tor     m prr
forwulate and commission special studies,            of Advaned Science and Technology  asm         Sources of     rtion        frm    sal
Covernmnt reglarly udes manpower projectione    completed in DecObhr 195 edo ain used                         nluingi        y of Laor 1S.
as sell sel r  vant labor mrket informtion           for manpower planning.                         efec o            1h sse  i1 t  r      tho
ing reources of NOSY. Hinistry of Labor. IlEf
W and onsu _tents in Korea Development               The dMission quot system wa ch          to     e      a   cour   nroll t        kepia  its
Intitute and KWI.                                    a graduate  ;uote system, but the reit 
was not significant in reducing grouth        (frec: abe6a   1c)copedto
rates.                                        tsamsinqoaicaaso30echyear
(b)  Proj cte nrollment In undergraduate    lE nd NOST hawv  prepared enroll_met Nd output    See 4(a) above.                                     So 4(a) aoe
end   aduae  roMoa    in science and    foreasts through 1990 in acince and engineering
enginer;np soud  not *exeed             rronrxa  a  indicative annual enrolleent !vels.                                                     The prioriw  ac rid to  otional bila
cnic lly justifiable lev,l or             a staff revewed enrollmnt nd output in                                                               hl          graduates tote admitted a
increae at such a pace as to             relation to investmant plan and various estimte                                                     coll       ineeri   prom            abolialed and
prejudice g    of Improving qulity.    of demand prepared by NOST. On the graduate                                                           this ha  th  direct effect of reduci  the
level there is an approximate balance. On the                                                      social dsmad for lH  adalt_ion sad t     te
undergraduate l1evl  projected output In                                                           indirect eff_t on colleg  engineering
engineerin  mwy exceed the forecast of ec;onic                                                      program due to les"  pp icants from the V6
demnd. This    due to high social demand, rapid                                                    syst_m.
expension of enrollmnt in the period 1960-I2 and
overnant deci-ion- to promot training of                                                           The owe growth la enne ering courees
scienc  and technology mnpouar.                                                                   pxrmitted:
(a) a fastr Improvement in etudent/teacher
ration in the late eighties than in tias
early eighties end
(b) quelity improwvemt.
(c)  Based an a *octor survey carried out       Owoernent agreed that original policies to            $Up further "etan required   m  recorded
jointly by Government and the Sak in       redue clam slas and achieve uni verl publicly         in the Action Program in the SBR Annex 1
1961 and 1962, several adjutmwnts were   funded middle achol education auld be *Chi ved         of SAR. Report Mo. 491-NO  dated Cay 1.
r_coimnd  in education via".               by 1991 rather than by 1964 *a "as initially         1964).
Overall spending an education should  a    propoed. Governmt *lm  prepared a revised
adjusted In  ccord nce with economic       analysis af projected educatioal *xpenditure  nd
performance and anul budgetary             finance In Korea. Snk staff revisewd the
policy.  In order to di-inieh iepmct on    lnformstlon and concluded that the oveall trend
recurrent expenditure of proposal. in     -i consistent with targets under the FFVP,
Fifth Five-year Plan (PPYP  to reduce      including revenue from the education tea.
diesalas, raise teachers  alarica          Expenditure by lEE will not eceed  m  of
and impeme_nt compulsory *Iddile echol     national buge or 4.1S of @1' during the  F1P
education  G>ovrnment ehould phase        and mhud  decine marginally to 1991.  In 19d2,
implementation over a ten-ysr as           total public expenditure on education and
olppae to a fivwer period,                 training reahe  approximately 65 of Wd' and
total private finance of edcaion  and training
wa  bout 3.93 of W.  These levels are
reasonabbe.



Coapli nce  ith Planned Action Program
Objectivee/Strtegies                         Actions Taken by April I1. 1984                          at *id-r review                 Actioe Taken by Clesi;g Date Jun  31. 199
(d) Korea has developed a Iare privately       bovernment recognizes that private  ducational      Thm nuth.r oef idicsti"e  fer finncichanneled to private
funded  ducation sy-te  that fulfills a    institutions provide valuable public aervice and         tivati                     onn          inetitutioe (feference: Table 8(c)). The
valuable  ducational role at both the     reduce the where of ducational finance borne by         ifc         r  ndergrdte prgr             aheent  4              lighty belos planned
secondary and higher levels. It           the GDvernmnt. It a in the public intereet to    but uneatimfactory for grat  progr                     at .  Ir   the 18 private
operatoo under cloee supervision of       prerve their financial bae and to nn ist their   Thie led to the Sup_leennt l L tter              .netitutsomm recesv.ngablmt
Govrnaennt  including Covernment           achieving    lity obeictivee. ban  staff             _ nt of the elgibility criteri in             1 of thir fincing from srces oter tme
rgulotion of feee  and provides           revid th  level  of f    in both puic N                    but th    rovent m       tll           i   duEn 1 e   18 c              d to 293 for
educational ervices in both urban and     private inetitutioe and judged thm as adequat        insgnifcant                                  t   16 ntial  niver itiee  TIbis indicated
rural arsa. It effectively expand         and reamnable. Government agreed to review fer                                                    that thi slightly low achievement wm
educationI opportunity without ecial       nnuaily and. if necessry. increase the.             The Government preared anull1 a              pland s id nt createo a  erious issn dee
bias. Hliveer, private schools nd                                                              financial plan for private inetitution  to   to the  alilability of othes amrcee of
collge  rpqaire financial *asietence                                                           ensure tir quality improwveme.               financing.
for improvent of science and
technologq education. Private graduate
echoolein parbicular. require
additional financi l nnietance for
expansion an  laprovewnt of graduate
program.
W



- 73 -
ANNEX I
Attachment
KAIST achieved the following in its expansion plan:
1986    1990     % Increase         RBmarkg
Intake into Master's Program             531     800           51%
Intake into Doctoral Programs            271     380           40%
Output from Master's Program             351     500           42%
Output from Doctoral Program              55     150          172%         Objectives
for Ph.D. I qp no
were achieved
1984    1988     % Incrasea
No. of Professors                        119     158         35%
No. of Theses Published                  346     601         74%           Shows gyalitative
improvement
Amount of Research Funding               272 La  611 /a      124%
1986    1990     %-Icreae
No. of students in Masters Program   1,135   1,399            23%         Objective of
ew#hass an Ph.D.
programs was
achieved.
No. of students in Doctorate Program   891   1.594            79%
Total                    2,026   2,993          48%
No. of Professors                        143     230          46%
Student/Professor Ratio                 14:1    13:1                       Improved
Despite expansion, employment rates of graduates was always close to 100%.
The increased supply of graduates with quality Ph.D. and masters degrees
improves the supply and qualifications of staff in the areas of science and technology
in higher education.
la Million won.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
KOREA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
Particigants in ComRletion Mission
World Bank
Sing-Zak Sung, Consultant Technical Educator
Ministry of Education
Chung, Bong Gun, Director ELPD
Korea Advanced Insti tute of Science and_ Technolggy
Jang Jai Joong, virector, International Relation. Office
Korea Science and Enaineerina Foundation
Chung Byong Ocks Director, International Relations Office



- 75 -
ANNX 3
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
Record of Progress Re2ortg Submitted
1.   Progress Report on Korea Science and Technology Education Loan, ROSEF,
February 1985.
2. Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation and
Projection for 1985, KAIST, September 1985.
3.   Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation and
Projection for 1985, KAIST, November 1985.
4.   Progress Report of the Second Education Loan Project, EFB/XOB,
November 20, 1985.
5.   Progress of the Second Education Sector Loan Project, MOE, April 1986.
6.   Progress Report on Korea Science and Technology Education Loan, ROSEF,
*            April 1986.
7.   Plan for the Effective l1.,lementation of ROSEF Activities, ROSEF, July
1986.
8.   Financial Support to Private Institutions, HOE, October i986.
9.   Progress Report on the Korea Science and Technology Loan, ROSEF, October
1986.
10.  Repo-t on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation.
KAIST, October 1986.
11.  Progress of the Second Education Sector Loan Project. ELPD/MO , October
1986.
12. Progress of the Second Education Sector Loan Project, ELPD/MOE, May 1987.
13. Progress Report cn Korea Science and Technology Education Loan, KOSEF,
May 1987.
14. Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation,
KAIST, June 1987.
1.



- 76 -
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 2
15.  Progress Report on Korea Science and Technology Education Loan, KAIST,
October 1987.
16.  Mid-Term Review Report on the Sixth IBRD Education Sector Loan Project,
Mid-Term Review Team, October 1987.
17.  Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation,
KAIST, November 1987.
18.  Progress Report on Korea Science and Technology Loan, KOSEF, Nay 1988.
19. Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation.
KAIST, May 1988.
20.  Progress Report on the Science and Technology Loan Project. MOE. May 31,
1988.
21.  Progress Report on the Korea Science and Technology Loan, XOSEF> October
1988.
22.  Progress Report, KAIST, October 1988.
23.  Progress of the Second Education Sector Loan Project, ELPD/MOE. October
1988.
24.  Progress Report on Korea Science and Technology Education Loan, XOSEF,
March 1989.
25.  Progress of the Second Eelication Sector Loan Project ELPD/MOE. March
1989.
26.  Status of IBRD Loan Implementation. KAIST, March 1989.



- 77 -
H. USE OF PANK RESOURCE8
Table llU STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEFS
Planned       Revis-d            Final
Stage of Project Cycle          HQ      Field   HQ     Field   HQ        Field
Through Appraisal               50        -     40       24     37.8     25.9
Appraisal - Negotiations        50        -      -        -     30.7     21.6
Negotiations - Loan Signing    16         -      -        -     17.8         -
Supervision                     45        -      -        -     25.5     17.5
PCR                              a        -      -        -      5.0      0.6
other. (Project Admin.)          3        -      -        -     _.7          -
Total
Comments:   The total staff input up to Loan Signing was 133.8 staff weeks and
the total thereafter, 51.3. The high figure at upstream and the
low figure after loan signing verifies the usual understanding
that for a sector loan, more staff work before loan signing pays a
dividend for lower staff work later.



Table 12: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Staff Weeks
Mission                    Month/Year     No. of Persons I«    in Field       Performance Status by Activity lb
Identification                  11/81                2($,A)         6.0
Preparation (by Gov't)    12/81-2/82                                  -
Pre-appraisal                  3-4/82       5(A,E,GE,GE,G6)        17.5
Preparation                    6-7/83               2(E,TE)         2.4
Appraisal                     9-10/83   6(E,TE,GE,GE,A,,YP)        21.0
Post-appraisal                   2/84                   1(E)        0.6
Subtotal                                                      47.5
F   N    I   G
Supervision I                    9/84                   1(E)        1.1                 2    1    1    1
Supervision II                  11/84                  1(TE)        1.0                 1    1    1    1
Supervision III                  4/85             3(E,TE,E)         3.0                 1    1    1    1            0
Supervision IV                  11/85               2(B,GE)         1.4                 1    2    1    1
Supervision V                    4/86               2(E,TE)         1.2                 1    2    1    1
Supervision VI                  10/86                 1(TE)         1.0                 1    2    1    1
Supervision VII                5-6/87              2(EP,TB)         2.8                 1    2    1    1
Supervision VIII             11-12/87             2(PE, Ts)         3.8                 1         1    1
Supervision IX                 5-6/88              2(PB,TB)         1.2                 1          1    1
Supervision X                   10/88                 1(TE)         11    1    1    1
Subtotal                                                      17.5       Average  1.1  1.4  1.0  1.0
PCR                              3/89                 i(TE)         0.6
TOTAL
La  3   Educonomint; A   Architect; GE - General Educator; TN S   Technical Educator; YP - Young Professional;
NP - Education Planner; PE - Principal Economist.
IkF - Financial; N - Managerial; I - Development Impact, G -overall Status.



