Document of
The World Bank
4 -> !  . ,  1 ; , V
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3708-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
May 2, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRRENCY EQUIVALENT
W 800  =  $1.00
W 100 = $0.125
(As of April 30, 1984)
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - July
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EPB     -  Economic Planning Board
FFYP    -  Fifth Five-Year Plan
GEB     -  General Education Bureau
GHS     -  General High School
KAIST   -  Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KCUE    -  Korea Council for University Education
KEDI    -  Korea Education Development Institute
KOSEF   -  Korea Science and Engineering Foundation
MOE     -  Ministry of Education
MOST    -  Ministry of Science and Technology
NIERT   -  National Institute for Educational Research and Training
OSROK   -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
R&D     -  Research and Development
RSC     -  Regional Science Center
SEDC    -  Science Education Development Committee
SOE     -  Statement of Expenditure



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:     The Republic of Korea
Amount:        $100 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:         15 years including three years of grace, with interest at the
standard variable rate.
Program        The basic objective of the science and technology education
Description:  sector program is to improve the quality of Korean education in
these fields, in furtherance of the country's skill, knowledge
and technological requirements in the 1980s and beyond. The
sector program includes policy and institutional changes and
selective investments designed to: (a) control the quality of
graduate- and college-level education; (b) concentrate graduate
education in a few key institutions; (c) strengthen an
institution for research funding and promotion; (d) improve
collaboration between academic institutions and research insti-
tutes; (e) establish an institution for advanced training and
research and development in science education; (f) adjust the
college admissions procedures to reward student achievement in
school, including performance in laboratory-based assignments;
(g) introduce new secondary science courses with a greater
emphasis on practical work; (h) strengthen monitoring and
evaluation procedures; (i) recruit and upgrade teaching staff;
and (j) improve facilities and equipment. The overall program,
of which a part would be financed under the proposed loan, would
comprise (i) about five national programs, for accreditation
assistance, research grants, staff development, equipment for
secondary schools and regional science centers, and studies; and
*                      (ii) about 60 subprojects for equipment requirements of specific
graduate schools and colleges.
*                      By 1990 the sector would supply about 7,000 students per year at
the graduate level in science or engineering, 18,000 per year at
the college level in science or science education, and 400,000
students per year from general high schools with an improved
science curriculum. The proposed loan entails some risk with
regard to complexity of policy and institutional changes and the
management burden. A system of program monitoring, including
annual joint and mid-term reviews by the Bank and the Borrower,
would substantially mitigate this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Program Cost: (for the period July 1984 - June 1988)
Local       Foreign      Total
…  -    - $ million ---------
Graduate Training
and Research                   90.2        102.4       192.6
College Science Education        77.8         80.7        158.5
Secondary Science Education  100.9            90.5        191.4
Total Base Cost               268.9        273.6       542.5
Contingencies:
Physical                       26.8         27.4        54.2
Price                          5C.3         48.1        98.4
Total Program Cost /a         346.0        349.1       695.1
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan        0.0          0.2          0.2
Total Financing Required   346.0           349.3       695.3
/a  Total program cost includes indirect taxes and duties
estimated to be about $21 million or 3% of t:otal program
cost. Imported equipment and materials would be exempt
from duty
Financing                                             Proposed               % IBRD
Plan:                   Government   Private        IBRD loan   Total       fin-
--------------- $ million -------- -----          ancing
Graduate Training
and Research               120.1          32.2        40.3       192.6         21
College Science
Education                   99.6          30.0        28.9       158.5         18
Secondary Science
Education                  114.4          68.3         8.7       191.4          5
Total Base Cost          334.1         130.5        77.9       542.5        14
Contingencies                  93.9         36.8        21.9       152.6         14
Total Program Cost       428.0        167.3         99.8       695.1        14
Front-end Fee on
Bank loan                     0.0          0.0         0.2         0.2       100
Total Financing
Required               428.0        167.3        100.0       695.3        14
Estimated Disbursement
trom Bank Loan:  Banik FY                   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
-------$ millio
Annual                     5    12    28    40    15
Cumulative                 5    17    45    85   100
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report. No. 4891-KO dated May 1, 1984.



REPORT AND RECO.MMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $100 million to help finance
the Government's Program for Science and Technology Education. The loan would
have a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during Bank missions in July and November/December
1983. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing countries,
heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments position
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the ability to sustain a
growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards had raised Korea's per capita income
from $80 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices), with more than
80% of the population above the poverty line, and enabled her to join the
ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the share of the
manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29% while the share of agri-
culture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured
goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades
earlier and the balance of payments position had been considerably
strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
first half of the 70s. There was some deterioration in the income levels of
the rural households between 1978-81 but this appears to have now been
reversed.



- 2 -
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        Foreign borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export
diversification resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the
country to negotiate the first oil crisis without: faltering, and thereafter,
to grow by 10% p.a. until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean
planners in stimulating the economy generated serious inflationary pres-
sures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78, well
in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977. In
addition, the large volume of subsidized credit which was made available to
the heavy and chemical industries by the financial system under the Govern-
ment's direction, brought about an excessive expansion of capacity in
subsectors faced with weak demand while the traditional light industries were
frequently starved of funds. This trend was in line with the Government's
view of Korea's changing comparative advantage, but it created structural
imbalances in the manufacturing sector and in conjunction with exchange rate
rigidity and a rising price level, dampened export growth in the latter part
of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to nearly
6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
ted. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980). On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 20% decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be
offset by the 10% growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in
1980, unemployment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of
fuel, raw materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequence of which the effective exchange rate
was cut by 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volume to increase by 10% in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981.
This very sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5.0% drop in the previous year, together with somne levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable devel-
opments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3%
and the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely because of movements in the
terms of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather
more conservative fiscal and monetary policies.



- 3 -
8.        While these changes in key macroeconomic indicators offered hearten-
ing evidence of progress with adjustment, growth in 1982 (5.3%) was appreci-
ably below expectations, as consumer and investment demand increased only
moderately, and the 6% rise in exports came largely from a surge in sales of
ships. Hence, in the first half of 1983 the Government moved to stimulate
domestic economic activity by concentrating a larger proportion of the total
budgeted public expenditure in the earlier part of the year. This served to
stimulate construction activities in the public sector, but the expectations
generated by the Government's counter cyclical action together with the pros-
*       pects of a revival in international demand, also triggered a boom in the
private housing and real estate markets, and in the industries supplying
inputs for construction activities. The recovery in export demand for elec-
tronics, machinery and transport subsectors from about the middle of 1983
helped to sustain the tempo of economic activity through the last two quarters
with the result that GNP grew by over 9%.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.        When the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was prepared two years ago,
a growth rate of 7.6% p.a. was projected with export volume increasing by 11%
annually and the current account deficit declining gradually to $3.6 billion
by 1986. But with the balance of payments performance running well ahead of
the Fifth Plan targets and planners more sanguine regarding the economy's
growth prospects, the Government recently completed a revision of the Plan.
Many of the objectives enunciated in the earlier version of the Plan which
have been pursued with considerable success have been retained, such as:
(a) price stability, (b) a lowering of trade barriers, (c) financial liberali-
zation, (d) energy conservation and diversification by type and source,
(e) increased spending on social programs and (f) strengthening of the new
export industries. But the revised Plan underscores the need for Korea to
contain external borrowing thereby minimizing the expansion of its large
external debt. Technology absorption from abroad and the creation of domestic
research capability, seen as the key to future export dynamism, also receives
more attention. In addition, the quest for efficiency in the management and
allo- cation of resources, especially in the public sector, has been
sharpened. The austere public expenditure program calling for a balanced
budget (general account) by 1984 and the equally stringent monetary policy
which has been in force over the past year, should facilitate a progressive
reduction in the size of the current account deficit, with domestic savings
being encouraged by generous real interest rates for depositors (4-5% in 1983)
and price stability (2% inflation in 1983). Technology transfer is being
accelerated by integrat- ing and expanding the efforts to induce direct
foreign investment, increase funding for research and venture capital for high
technology firms, by improving the quality of researchers in scientific insti-
tutes and encouraging the large corporations to raise expenditures on R&D.
Lastly, a reform of public enterprise management, now being reviewed, should
contribute significantly to the cause of efficiency.
10.       During the 1970s, Korea's growth rate was extremely high - averaging
9.6% p.a. Such a performance might not be easily repeated in the current
decade given the trends in the international system and the very size of
Korea's economy and trade. But an increase in the GNP averaging 7-8% annually



- 4 -
could well be achieved, if the appropriate policies are followed, through a
9-10% expansion in exports combined with judicious enlargement of domestic
demand.
External Resource Balance
11.       While total debt is high in absolute amounts and equa:L to 57% of GNP
in 1983, the total debt service ratio (including interest on short-term debt)
was still a moderate 21%. These ratios in fact exaggerate the debt burden
somewhat as they include loans used for the purpose of financing the rapidly
rising exports of capital goods (most prominently ships) without showing the
balancing effect on net foreign debts of rising foreign exchange claims on the
rest of the world. The high share of short-term maturities in total debt
(35%) is the most unfavorable aspect of the debt situation, but under the
Stand-By Agreement with the IMF, special attention is being give!n to its
reduction over the next 12 months. The gross borrowing program envisaged by
the Government (about $6 billion p.a. through 1986) though fairly large in
absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of availability, and prudent in terms
of Korea's debt service capacity provided that the export projections are
realized and the borrowing rates decline. With such a level of borrowing,
Korea's external debt as a ratio to GNP would decline to below 45% in 1986,
while the debt service ratio would fall to 17%. Although this is lower than
the debt service ratios projected for many other newly industrializing
countries, the magnitude of Korea's outstanding debt and the lowered tolerance
of bankers towards risk, suggest that it would be desirable for the current
account deficit to be kept below 2% of GNP for 1986, which appears feasible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of March 31, 1984, Korea had received 72 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,105.27 million in loans
and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that date,
$1,452.27 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of March 31, 1984. Progress
on project implementation is generally satisfactory, and implementation delays
have been addressed which had occurred in several projects - mainly irriga-
tion, highways and population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government
budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high
domestic inflation. The issue has been reviewed with the Govermnent which has
taken measures to increase local funding of Bank-financed projecits. However,
as the Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and
plans for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending prograrm for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete



projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making sec-
tor loans which are aimed at addressing broad-based policy and institutional
issues. This transformation in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
the relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is working well. Sector
loans have already been made for Education and Industrial Finance and are
under preparation for the Agriculture and Urban sectors. The Bank has also
made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement this approach by
concentrating on issues that have macro and multi-sectoral impact.
14.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far trade and incentives issues have been addressed
through the SAL. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through two proj-
ects approved in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) which finances research, development and engineering and the other for
the machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms.
Future lending planned for industry in Korea would include continued support
for the financial sector reform, for KTDC, and for the small and medium-
industry subsector which is expected to play an important role in the growth
of the skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage of
development of Korean industry.
15.       Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited
reflecting the completion of major infrastructure works. A planned sector
loan would address a number of policy and institutional issues related to
Korean agriculture which are now being defined in a sector survey. This would
complement public finance issues related to farm subsidies and the restructur-
ing of agro-industries being handled under the second SAL. Loan funds are
tentatively planned to be directed to credit institutions to support long-term
lending to farmers and other private entrepreneurs in the sector.
16.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
'        ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to
regulation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve
macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as
relative fuel prices, are being handled within the context of the second SAL.
17.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. The proposed loan would support measures designed to improve qualitative
aspects of secondary and higher level science and technology education.



- 6 -
18.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and two
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply, and transportation in the
cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. New
projects in urban transport, local government finance and water supply are
under preparation. Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-
building efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by :moving
gradually to a sector approach, first in housing.
PART III - SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
19.       If Korea is able to sustain rapid economic growth, by the mid-1990s
it will emerge as an industrialized export-dependenit economy wit!h a rapidly
declining reliance on agriculture. Production systems will become more skill-
and knowledge-intensive and employ more advanced technologies. To achieve
this deepening of the nation's industrial structure, science and technology
will play an important role in exploiting the nation's growth potential. This
larger role for science and technology within the Korean economy requires
major investments in scientific and technological infrastructure and in man-
power development. Government projects that: the ratio of research and
development (R&D) spending to GNP will grow from about 0.7% in 1979 to 2.1% by
1991; the proportion of that investment undertake!n by private industry will
increase from 34% in 1979 to 60% in 1991; personnel in R&D will grow from
16,000 in 1979 to about 110,000 in 1991; and the number of scienlists, engin-
eers, technicians and craftsmen in high technology fields overall should
experience a corresponding increase from 640,000 (or 4.7% of the labor force)
in 1979 to 1,400,000 (or 7.6% of the labor force) in 1991.
20.       In recognition of the priority of manpower development,, the program
for higher technical education in Korea (Loan 1800-KO approved February 19,
1980 in the amount of $100 million) addressed the need for improvement in
engineering and management education and technician training. The focus of
attention under the proposed loan is graduate training and research in science
and engineering fields and science education at the college and secondary
levels. For the sake of convenience, science education and related graduate
training and research in science and engineering are called science and
technology education. Science and technology education is defined as the
sector in this report. Science and technology education, encompassing about
98 colleges and over 800 general high schools (GHSs), is largely under the
supervision of the Ministry of Education (MOE). The Ministry of Science and
Technology (MOST) is responsible for a major graduate school and research
institute, the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST),
other research institutes, and a research foundation, the Korea Science and
Engineering Foundation (KOSEF). A large private education sector, accounting
for about 75% and 45% of enrollment at the college and secondary levels
respectively, complements public education. It operates under close
supervision by Government, including government regulation of fees, and



effectively expands educational opportunity in both urban and rural areas
without social bias. Both public and private colleges and schools charge fees
with the direct cost to students of private education varying from 40 to 70%
above that of public education. Over the last decade, education has expanded
rapidly at all levels in Korea. Full enrollment of the primary school age
group was achieved by 1975; over 80% of the corresponding secondary age group
is currently in school. The share in higher education has increased sharply
to about 25% in full-time studies in 1983.
21.       In order to meet the expected demand for higher technical and scien-
tific manpower, expansion of training capacity in selected fields is required,
particularly at the graduate level. Given the current state of educational
development in Korea, an approach that emphasizes quantity alone would be an
inadequate response. New positions opening up within industry, in government
research institutes, and in higher education demand advanced knowledge and
skills. The quality of training required is much higher than the current,
average standard in Korea particularly with respect to an experiment-oriented
approach. Rather than a major expansion of training capacity, the overriding
goal is qualitative improvement to be accomplished through policy and
institutional change and selective investments.
Science and Technology Education at the Graduate and College Levels
22.       Science and technology education at the graduate and college levels
is strong in the relatively high standards already achieved in a few univer-
sities and research institutes. It: is weak in: (a) the failure to apply
standards of quality control and to concentrate resources, particularly for
graduate education, in a few, select institutions; (b) the current low level
of research activity; (c) the overall shortage of qualified faculty; and
(d) the inadequate and poorly equipped facilities of many institutions.
23.       Quality Control.  There is wide variation in quality within the
system of 98 colleges and universities (21 public, 77 private) with science or
engineering programs. With the exception of undergraduate programs in engin-
eering and in colleges of education, this diverse network of institutions is
not subject to rigorous, periodic evaluation and there are no clear guidelines
as to what constitutes acceptable standards. This lack of quality control
among institutions leads to fragmentation of courses and failure to identify
critical areas for remedial action, and adversely affects the quality and
relevance of training. Since necessary conditions for graduate education can
be satisfied in only a few institutions, Korea confronts a difficult challenge
of strengthening selectively the system of graduate education. A long-term
blueprint is required for the development of graduate education in the
sciences and engineering that is at once more concentrated and specialized and
that meets objective standards of quality. In science education, Government
has not addressed the need for advanced training in Korea for faculty of
science education departments of the colleges of education.
24.       Research.  Faculty research is an essential component of excellence
in graduate- and college-level programs. However, research grants from all
sources have averaged only $4,000 each. Limited research funds of the
Ministry of Education (MOE) have been allocated on an institutional basis and



- 8 -
for research projects of short duration. An institution for promotion of
academic research in science and technology exists in the Korea Science and
Engineering Foundation (KOSEF) established in 1977 under the Ministry of
Science and Technology (MOST). It funds research and scholarly publications
and provides assistance for advanced training in high priority fields.
Effective use of additional research funds depends upon improveiment in KOSEF's
management capacity.
25.       With the exception of the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology (KAIST), with both graduate training and research programs, the
network of approximately 120 government-sponsored research institutes is
isolated from the system of higher education. I'hese institutions could pro-
vide services of teaching and research supervision for graduate students.
With respect to science education research, the leading colleges of education
and education research institutes, like the Korea Education Development
Institute (KEDI) and the National Institute for Educational Research and
Training (NIERT), have not recruited sufficient numbers of appropriately
trained faculty or personnel.
26.       Supply and Qualifications of Faculty.  The shortage of' qualified
faculty adversely affects the quality of instruction. For colleges of natural
science and of education the student:faculty ratio has steadily increased from
19:1 in 1970 to 28:1 in 1983. In colleges of engineering, with assistance
under Loan 1800-KO, the student:faculty ratio has fallen from as high as 45:1
in 1980 to 38:1 in 1983 but remains short of the target of 21:1 set for
December 1986. The typical teaching load has also risen. In 1970 46% of
faculty members in science and engineering taught more than 10 hours per week;
by 1983 over 60% taught in excess of 10 hours. In 1983 more than 68% of
faculty were on part-time appointments. Only 50% of faculty in colleges of
natural sciences possess the doctorate; of these, approximately one-half have
obtained their advanced degree in traditional Korean graduate programs and
stand in need of postdoctoral research training. In the science education
programs of the colleges of education, less than 35% hold a doctorate; only 3%
hold a doctorate in science education. Among engineering faculty members only
about 35% hold a doctorate.
27.       Facilities and Equipment.  Expenditures, on facilities and equipment
have increased, but have not kept pace with increases in enrollment. MOE
estimates that at the college level, laboratory facilities are only 70% of the
official standard. Available equipment in science programs is only 40% of the
official standard. If the gap in equipment requirements for graduate
education in both sciences and engineering is included, the figure is closer
to 25% of current needs. Within graduate-oriented universities, the need is
also to assure the availability of research equipment carefully selected to
match faculty competencies and requirements. Within the colleges of
education, additional investment in teaching equipment is a prerequisite for
the reorientation of instruction toward development of skills in problem
solving.  In all cases the shortage of facilities and adequate equipment and
materials reinforces the reliance by instructors on the lecture approach and
reduces the possibilities for experimental work by students.



- 9-
Science Education at the Secondary Level
28.       Secondary science education in Korea is comparatively strong in high
student achievement on tests of scientific knowledge. It is weak in: (a) the
failure to provide students opportunity to supplement this knowledge with
experience in experimental procedures; (b) the absence of a system for science
curriculum development based on continuous assessment and policy studies;
(c) college admissions procedures that do not take sufficient account of
students' achievement in school including experimental work; (d) the lack of
adequate programs for staff development; and (e) the shortage of laboratory
facilities and equipment in general high schools (GHSs) and regional science
centers (RSCs).
29.       Practical Science Activities.  There is a question of balance in
Korean secondary science education. Korean students perform very well on
tests of scientific knowledge. In contrast they possess little opportunity to
complement this knowledge with practical science skills. Results of a recent
international study of achievement in science subjects suggest that, as
measured against a group of developed and developing countries, Korean
students performed above average and at or just below the highest standard
attained in the restricted domain of scientific knowledge. At the same time,
an analysis of skill development in laboratory settings places Korean children
near the bottom of the list of comparator countries in terms of access to and
proportion of time spent in laboratory exercises.
30.       Curriculum Development and Policy Studies.  Materials for high
school science are produced by private publishers using authors approved by
MOE and materials based on MOE guidelines. This policy is successful in that
standard texts are available at reasonable cost to students throughout the
country. A shortcoming is that these texts are not subjected to evaluation
and revision; they are not generally supported by reference guides and
manuals; and there is insufficient ongoing research, development and evalua-
tion on which new curricula and materials can be based. An institutional base
for coordination of the disparate functions of science curriculum design,
materials preparation, teacher retraining, and program evaluation and feedback
is also lacking.
31.       College Admissions.  The centrally-managed college admissions
examination has been a powerful influence within secondary science education,
since teachers and students give priority attention to preparation for that
examination. Korea has only recently begun to adopt a more flexible system of
college admissions. In 1982 a student's high school record accounted in some
regions and institutions for 30% of the score on which admission is based. As
recently as 1979, no weight at all was given to the high school record.
32.       Training of Science Teachers.  The present system of staff develop-
ment for science teachers is characterized by an emphasis on content and
theory rather than methodology and. practical skills relevant to school situa-
tions. Although the approximately 3,600 secondary science teachers possess
university degrees, they are not well-acquainted with experimental procedures
and demonstration techniques. Nor are they trained in techniques of student
performance assessment, including evaluation of students' experimental work.



- 10 -
33.       Science Education Facilities and Equipment.  The level of laboratory
facilities is about 75% of requirements in GHSs and RSCs. Measured against
the standard of proposed new courses with more laboratory-based units, avail-
ability of equipment is about 55% with an average of eight children per equip-
ment set at one time. Under these circumstances, a sizeable proportion, pos-
sibly as high as 80% of students, would have no significant time in performing
science experiments or in learning to set up and use laboratory apparatus.
Manpower Monitoring
34.       Since 1980, Government has introduced changes that are tending to
make the supply of high-level manpower more responsive to demand. Manpower
planning has improved through a manpower analysis system under the coordina-
tion of the Inter-agency Committee for Manpower Development and Promotion
chaired by the Economic Planning Board (EPB). Entrance quotas have been made
more flexible and are now set at the college level, with allocation to depart-
ments determined within each college. There is need, however, for further
improvement. The information base on relative supply and demand of science
and technology manpower is not fully exploited and made available to decision
makers.  Academic institutions and students generally possess less information
about career choices than could readily be made available.
Education Investment and Financing Gap
35.       As part of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (FFYP) 1982-86, Government
prepared a set of overall targets and a financing plan for qualitative
improvement in all levels of education. The budget of MOE during the FFYP is
estimated to average about 21% of the central government budget, or 4% more
than the average of the Fourth Five-Year Plan. The actual level for 1982 was
20.6%; for 1983 it was 20.9%; the estimate for 1984 is 21.8%. This share
corresponds with an increase in spending by MOE from an average of 3.2% of GNP
in 1980 and 1981 to a projected average of 3.8% of GNP during the! FFYP. In
order to pay for the increased cost of education, a special education tax was
introduced in 1982. The overall targets for educational development to 1986
are very ambitious by comparison with historic levels and depend heavily on
the special education tax.
36.       Even if public spending on education meets planned goals, a
financing gap of about 15% exists for private institutions that account for
about 40% of total spending on education and training in Korea. Private
colleges already demonstrate lower unit costs than public institutions, yet
they fulfill an important public service in satisfying the demand for
education beyond that met by public institutions. Fees for private
institutions account for as much as 90% of recurrent expenditure. Although
the fees that private institutions are allowed to charge are considered
adequate, Government should review them annually and revise them if
necessary. Government should also consider introduction of student loans,
greater use of tax exemptions on private donations and increased public
subsidy, by means of, for example, grants for staEf development and loans for
laboratory equipment (para. 59).



Government Strategy and Bank Role
37.       In the late 1960s and 1970s, Korea emphasized investment in indus-
trial education with the prospect of relatively quick return as skilled labor
was drawn into an expanding industrial system. In a planned transition to
more skill-intensive, high technology production, Korean educational planners
have adopted a longer term strategy designed to: (a) produce an appropriate
number of qualified manpower in the sciences, engineering and management via a
development program for higher education; and (b) strengthen the foundations
of science and technology within society through improvement of science educa-
tion at the secondary level.
38.       Bank group lending has closely paralleled the increasing sophistica-
tion of the Korean economy. The Bank's initial involvement in the sector
under four loans/credits emphasized vocational and technical education at the
secondary and post-secondary level. The completion of the fourth education
project in June 1983 marked the end of this phase. The Bank's current lending
strategy in education, as increasingly in other sectors in Korea, calls for
sector loans addressing broad policy and institutional issues. The fifth loan
(Loan 1800-KO), under the program for higher technical education, was approved
in 1980 with the primary objective of raising the quality of higher technical
education to the standards needed for industrial development in the 1980s.
This objective is being substantially realized. Government has strengthened
manpower planning; it has made more flexible the procedures for student entry
to academic programs within colleges of engineering; accreditation agencies
have been established for three academic areas; and it has prepared a study of
the financial status of private colleges of engineering and subsequently pro-
vided more than $100 million in additional public funds to these institu-
tions. Given the rapid increase in student enrollments in 1980 and 1981, how-
ever, the student:faculty ratio in colleges of engineering has declined more
slowly than originally projected. Since 1982, Government has reduced new
enrollments and continued to recruit additional faculty with the result that
the student:faculty ratio has declined from 50:1 in 1979 to 38:1 in 1983.
However, the target data of December 1986 for reducing this ratio to 20:1, as
agreed under Loan 1800-KO, is no longer realistic. Agreement has been reached
with the Government under the proposed loan on a multifaceted approach to
program monitoring, with annual reviews and the setting of interim targets
including indicative annual enrollment levels (para. 55). Agreement has also
been reached on changing the target date for achieving the 20:1 ratio to June
30, 1990 to correspond with targets under the proposed loan. Physical imple-
mentation of Loan 1800-KO is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule with
92% of loan funds committed for approved subprojects and national programs.
Ongoing Bank dialogue with Government has focussed on further policy and
institutional changes that together with selected investments would promote
Government's strategy for the development of science and technology education.
39.       OED audit reports have been prepared for the first three education
projects and concluded that projects were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. Other points of interest are the need for:
(a) advanced project preparation before approval; (b) greater focus on policy
analysis and evaluation; and (c) improved local management procedures to
expedite procurement. These lessons were incorporated in the design of



- 12 -
Loan 1800-KO and have also been incorporated in the proposed program for
science and technology education.
PART IV - PROGRAM FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION
40.       Based on a sector survey carried out by the Bank in 1981 and 1982,
the proposed program was prepared by Government with assistance of local con-
sultants. A Bank mission appraised it in September/October 1983. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D. C., from April 9-12, 1984. The Korean dele-
gation was led by Mr. Myong-Kon Choi, Director, Economic Cooperation Division,
Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4891-KO, dated May 1,
1984, is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately and Supple-
mentary Project Data are provided in Annex III.
Program Objectives
41.       The principal objective of the program would be to bring the quality
of science and technology education up to standards required for an industrial
system that will be, at once, more skill- and knowLedge-intensive and employ
more advanced technologies. This objective translates into a strategy to:
expand selectively graduate education in science and engineering and streng-
then the research content of advanced training; raise average standards of
college programs in science and science education; and increase the study of
science subjects and introduce a more experiment--oriented science curriculum
at the secondary level. The Bank has received a Policy Letter for science and
technology education, submitted by the Minister of Education, with concurrence
of MOST, outlining the Government's objectives and proposed Action Program
(see pages 13-15) with respect to policy and institutional changes. The
Action Program includes a schedule for implementing the measures proposed.
The program would include expenditures on curriculum development, policy
studies, research grants, development of new institutions, teachesr recruitment
and training, equipment and materials, and buildings.
Graduate Training and Research, and College Levels  (Proposed outlay:
graduate training and research, approximately $193 million; and college level,
approximately $159 million, both net of contingencies).
42.       Quality Control.  Under the proposed program, the Government would
expand the system for assessing the quality of education and establishing
appropriate standards for colleges of natural science and for graduate depart-
ments in science and engineering. Under the Action Program, accreditation
committees would be organized by June 30, 1985 urLder the Korea Council for
University Education (KCUE), an independent association of the 98 colleges and
universities in Korea, founded in 1982 with financial assistance of Govern-
ment. Accreditation committees would on occasion include representatives of
private industry. Terms of reference for the accreditation committees have
been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory. Program quality at KAIST
would be assessed by means of external review by a visiting committee.
Program costs associated with accreditation include financing of foreign
specialists.



v
-1 3-                                                                         Page I of 3
Table:  ACTION PROGRAM ON SECTOR POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT:  1984-90
Objectives/strategies                             Actions taken by April 19, 1984                                        Further actions to be token
1. Graduate Training and Rsearch:  To develop
graduate programs in th,! sector and to
increase funding for, i::prove the management
of and raise the quality of corresponding
research activities.
(a) Control quality of graduate prograns in               Government has assisted in the creation of the               Accreditation of graduate vrograss in scIence and
sctence and engineering by means of gradu-           KCUE, an association of all colleges and univer-              engineering to be initiated for sector instito-
ate program  crreditation.                           sities in Korea.  The Council seeks to promote                tions by June 30, 1985.
quality education by conducting reviews and
evaloations of higher education and recommending
appropriate policies. Steps were initiated for
graduate program accreditatin onder the aegis  f
the new KCUE.  Program evaluation at KAIST would
be conducted by an est-rnal visiting committee.
(b) Concentrate resources for graduate edoca-             Government has decided to designate selected                 Approaimately 10 graduate-oriented universities
tito   in the sciences and in engineering in         graduate-oriented universities for science and                in science and engineering are ti  be assIsted by
fewer institutions, with increased spe-              engineering fields.  Gaidelines and eligibility               means of subloans for equipment and grants for
cialization among institutions tn be                 criteria for nabloans and assistance under                    faculty development.  luring 1984/85 Government
reflected in the investment plan for                 national programs for graduate schools were                   would also prepare a long-tern development plan
facilities and equipment.                            reviewed by Bank staff and are acceptable to the              for graduate education.
Bank.
(c) Strengthen the key institution for                    KOSEP prepared a development plan to expand sup-             KOSEF would allocate about 1,600 research grants
promotin- and funding oE research in                 port of acadenic research in science and technol-             with approximately 601 of funds to basic and
support of national science and technology           ogy.  KOSEF has reviewed priority fields in rela-             applied science and 40% to engineerIng fields.
goals.                                               tion to the MOST plan for science and technology              At least 75% of research grants would support
development.  KOSEP prepared an investment plan              work of university or college-based researchers
for academic research support indicating proposed            under MOE.  KOSEF Program Promntion Department
allocations to priority fields and also developed            would increase to 10 staff by June 1985.  Overall
a plan for strengthening KOSEF management.  bank             KOSEF staff would increase to about 45 by 1988.
staff reviewed the investment plan and the plan
for strengthening KOSEF management and foand both
plans reasonable.
(d) Improve cllhboration among graduate                  MOST has budgeted for research collaboration with            KAIST would implement a plan for enpansion of
schools and r-searoh institutes by coupe-            universities and with private industry.  MOST has             graduate education, especially at the Ph.D.
ration in graduate teaching and In Joint             formally instructed major research institutes to              level.  Approximately 10 major research insti-
research.                                            appoint training coordinotors from among the re-              totes would appoint training coordinators by
search personnel to organize and supervise assis-            June 30, 1985 to assist in providing research
Lancn to graduate students from universities who             training to graduate students from universities.
would undertake dissertation research at research
institutes. Among research Institutes, KAIST, in
particular, serves as a major center for univer-
sity faculty development. KAIS! is also conduct-
ing part-time graduate programs fnr approximately
400 scientists and engineers in the institutes.
(e) Develop within the netuork of colleges of            The Government decided to establish the Korean                Government would implement a development plan for
educatoin, a spectalized center for gradu-           National University of Teacher Education for                  the Korean National University of Teacher Educa-
ate training and for renearch and develop-           commencement of operation in March 1985.  bank                tinn.  Is the first year of operation, the
nent in science education.                           staff reviewed proposals for graduate training                University would enroll about 1,500 students
and research in science education.  Bank staff               including about 700 at the graduate level.  Of
agreed to include under subpr-jects allocation               these, approximately 250 would pursue the masters
for graduate training in science education sub-              or doctorate degree in science education.  On
ject to preparation of detailed loan application.            completing their studies, these science education
specialists would take positions as professors of
science education in colleges of education or an
supervisors, administrators or science education
researchers in agencies of the sector.
2. College-Level Science Education: To increase
the number and raise the qualifications of
teaching faculty and to improve facilities and
equipment in colleges of natural science and
science education departments in colleges of
education.
(a) Control quality of science programs by                see Section 1 (a).                                           See Section I (a).
means of a college of natural science
accreditation.



-14-                                                                    Page 2 of 3
Objectives/strategies                            Actions taken by April 15, 1984                                       Further actions to be taken
(b) increase number sod :lpgrade qualifications          Government has prepared faculty development and             Government would imtplement plans for faculty
of faculty members ii. colleges of educa-           faculty recruitment plans for colleges of educa-             recruitment and development according to the fol-
tion and colleges of natural science.               tion, colleges of natural science and colleges of            lowing goals for June 3), 1990:  average student:
Continue recruitment program for faculty            engineering.  National pr-.grama for faculty                 teacher ratio would falL to 20:1; average tearh-
of colleges of engineering.                         development and recruitment were designed and                ing load would be 10 houlrs per week; at: least 50%
costed.  Bank staff reviewed the plans and found            of faculty would be sn iull-time appointments;
them reasonable.                                            and the proportion of f-culty with the doctorate
would be 65% in college:  of natural science and
502 in colleges of education and colleges of
engineering. Government has agreed to interim
targets fur mid-inc. review in 1987 of: averge
student:teacher ratio of 25:1 in ololeges of
natural science and of education and 28:1 in
colleges of engineering; average teaching load of
13 hours per week; at least 40% of faculty on
full-time appointments; and proportion of faculty
with the doctorate no less than 55% in colleges
of natural science, 40% in colleges of education;
and 40% in colleges of engineering.
(c) Prepare an improvement plan for facilities           Government has prepared revised equipment lists             Apprmi-mately 30 colleges of natural science and
and equipment.                                      by subject area.  Equipment for college of educa-            20 colleges of education would be assisted under
tion is primarily for science education and aci-            the program.  The deficit in laboratory f-cili-
ence teaching.  An investment plan based on                 ties would be reduced to about 15%.  The deficit
updated survey of requirements was reviewed by              in equipment for teaching and research would be
Bank staff and found reasonable.  Guidelines and            reduced to about 30i by 1990 and enable labora-
eligibility criteria were agreed for purposes of            tory work to increase from 10% to about 30% of
processing subloans.                                        class time.
3. Secondary Science Education: To increase the
study of science subjects, particularly at the
high school level; to improve curricula and
instructional materials; to strengthen the
skills of classroom teachers; and to upgrade
facilities sod equipment of general high
schools and regional science centers.
(a) Design and implement new science curri-             Government has adopted a plan to offer high                  From 1984 Govern.enc would introduce a plan as
culas with greater emphasis on epnri-               school science courses on both the ordioary and              follows: oil students in general high  -choola
ental and practical science work and                the advanced levels, vith science requirement for            would take four science courses on either the
establish a management agency to oversee            all students and prepared syllabi for new courses            ordinary or advanced level; about 20% of instruc-
and coordinate overall implementation.              to be introduced in 1984.  New courses would                 tional time would be devoted to experimental
devote about 20% of instructional time in sciance           work.  The deficit 'in laboratory facilities nnd
to experimental work.  Bank staff reviewed the              in science equipment: would be reduced to about
plan for improvement of secondary science corri-            15% by 1990. The SEI)C would commence operation by
colum. Bank staff and Government agreed on the              June 30, 1984 with a staff of about 10 science
creation of the Science Education Development               educators under an a:dvisory panel of representa-
Cosittee (SEDC) to oversee planning and impla-              tives of Government, the education and resnarch
mentation of disparate functions of curriculen              sector and industry.  In order to facilitate
design, materials preparation, teacher retrain-             implementation, the Science and Vonational
ing, evaluation and feedback and uo staff                   Education Division of GEB would increase to 15 by
strengthening of the Science and Vocational Edu-            June 30, 1984.
cation Division of GEB.
(b) Introduce systematic monitoring of secon-           Government and the Bank have agreed on two areas             Government would introduce., by June 30, 1985, a
dary science education for policy analy-            that require further study.  These are the need              plan for monitoring the secondary science progran
sis.                                                for:  national surveys to evaluate student pe-               and a plan for imprcving teachers' assessment
formance for policy guidance; and improvement of            skills.
assessment skills by teachers.
(c) Adjuat college admissions procedures to             Since 1981 college admission procedures have                 Government would eveluate the adaissions examin-
enable individual colleges to select stu-           taken into account the school record and the                 tion system and develop a modified approach with
dents by taking account of students' over-          school record includes a grade for experimental              a view to providing selecting colleges the stu-
all performance on the entrance examina-            and practical work.  In most cases, however, only            dents' scores in mathematics and science as well
tion, as well as achievement on the                 a total score is made available to colleges and              as the students' school record.  Findings of the
science and mathematics component of the            decisions on admission to programs in science or             study would be implemented in the admissions
entrance examination and on the school              engineering are made without detailed information            cycle for the 1987 academic year.
record.                                             on student prior achievement in science and math-
ematics. The effects of the changes to date are
insufficient as an incentive for schools, teach-
era and students to place more emphasis on sci-
ence. The school record and the science record
component are not systematically shared with
colleges selecting students.
(d) Design and implement staff development              NOE prepared a national program  for retraining              Government would recruit approximately 700 addi-
programs for secondary science teachers,            and upgrading secondary science teachers and ape-           tional science teachers per year from  1984-88 and
laboratory assistants and science educa-            cialists including overseas training in fields               also attain a level of 2 laboratory assistants
tien specialists in regional science cen-           not currently offered in colleges in Korea.  Dank            per general high nchuol by June 30, 1990.
ters, and central agencies of NOE.                  staff reviewed the national program and found it
reasonable.



- 15 -                                                                Page 3 of 3
Objectives/strategies                             Actions taken by April 15, 1984                                        Further actions to be taken
4. Science and Technology Education Sector Plan-
ning end Finance.
(a) Improved manpower monitoring for science             ESB chairs a manpower promotion conmmittee with               MOE would regularly provide results of manpower
and technology sector.                               authority to coordinate manpower planning, to                 studies to universities and also assist each
formulate and commission special studies.  Gov-              institution to improve services of student career
ernment regularly updates manpower projections as            counselling.
well as relevant labor market information, using
resources of MOST, Ministry of Labor, MOE, EPB
and consultants in Korea Development Institute
and KEDI.
(b) Projected enrollment in undergraduate and             MOE and MOST have prepared enrollment and output             Government would nonitor enrollnents in terms of
graduate programs in science and engineer-           forecasts through 1990 in science and engineering             labor market demand as well as indicators of pro-
ing should not exceed economically justi-            programa as indicative annual enrollment lev-                 gram quality as in 2 (b).  Government would also
fiable level or increase at such a pace as           els.  bank staff reviewed enrollment and output               use agreed annual enrollment levels as a guide-
to prejudice goal of improving quality.              in relation to investment plan and various esti-              line for planning.  For colleges of engineering,
4                                                                    mates of demand prepared by MOST.  On the gradu-              in particular, the interim target for 1987 is
ate level there is an app-omimate balance.  On               140,000 students; the guideline figure for 1990
the undergraduate level, projected output in                 is 160,000 students.
engineering may exceed the forecast of economic
demand. This is due to high social demand, rapid
expansion of enrollment in the period 1980-82 and
Government decisions to promote training of
science and technology manpower.
(c) Eased on a sector survey carried out                  Government agreed that original policies to                  No further action required.
jointly by Government and the bank in 1981           reduce class sine and achieve universal publicly
and 1982, several adjustments were recor-            funded middle school education would be achieved
mended in education plans.  Overall spend-           by 1991 rather than by 1986 as was initially pro-
tog on education should be adjusted in               posed.  Government also prepared a revised analy-
accordance with economic performance and             sis of projected educational expenditure and
annual budgetary policy.  In order to                 finance in Korea.  Bank staff reviewed the infou-
diminish impact on recurrent expenditure             mation and concluded that the overall trend is
of proposals in Fifth Five-Year Plan                 consistent with targets under the FFYP including
(FFYP) to reduce class size, raise teach-            revenue from the education tax.  Expenditure by
ers' salaries and implement compulsory               MOE will not exceed 22% of national budget or
middle school education, Government should           4.1% of GNP during the MFFP and should decline
phase implementation over a ten-year as              marginally to 1991.  In 1982, total public expen-
opposed to a five-year period.                       diture on education and training reached approxi-
mately 6; of GNP, and total private finance of
education and training was about 3.9% of GNP.
These levels are reasonable.
(d) Korea has developed a large privately fun-            Government recognizes that private educational               Governament would provide assistance to private
ded education system that fulfills a valu-           institutions provide valuable public service and              institutions under subprojects and national
able educational role at both the secon-              reduce the share of educational finance borne by             programa.  Government would also prepare each
dary and higher levels.  It operates under           Government.  It is, in the public interest to pre-            year during the program a financial plan for
close supervision of Government, including           serve their financial base and to assist their                private graduate schools., olleges and high
Government regulation of fees, and pro-              achieving quality objectives.  bank staff                     schools to  nnure the enhancement of their
vides educational services in both urban             reviewed the level of fees in both public and                 quality in accordance with the objectives of the
and rural areas.  It effectively expands             private institutions and judged them as adequate              program, and in coosultation with the Bank, n
educational opportunity without social               and reasonable.  Government agreed to review fees             the occasion of each annual and the mid-term
bias.  However, private schools and col-             annually and, if necessary, increase them.                    review, proceed to implement this plan.
leges require financial assistance for
improvement of science and technology edu-
cation. Private graduate schools, in par-
ticular, require additional financial
assistance for expansion and improvement
of graduate programs.



- 16 -
43.       Concentration of Graduate Education.  A major objective of the
program is to concentrate resources for graduate education in a few graduate-
oriented universities. This would be achieved as follows: (a) under the
guidelines for allocation of loan proceeds, no more than 15 subprojects for
science or engineering graduate programs would be financed with the result
that 10, and quite possibly fewer, individual graduiate-oriented universities
would receive program funds; (b) the allocation of KOSEF research grants under
competitive procedures would result in increased resources for the relatively
stronger graduate-oriented institutions that are able to formulate high quali-
ty research proposals; and (c) Government would undertake in 1984-85 a study
of the future development of graduate education in science and technology.
Terms of reference for this study have been reviewed by the Bank and are
acceptable. Program costs would include facilities and equipment for
graduate-oriented institutions, including KAIST, assistance for faculty
recruitment and development, short-term specialists to advise on graduate
programs, and the study on graduate education in science and teclnology.
44.       Research Promotion and Funding.  Under the program, the Government
would expand the operations of KOSEF and strengthen its capacity to manage a
larger research program directed at 15 priority fields identified by KOSEF
planners as critical for long-term economic and industrial development. KOSEF
budget would grow from about $6.0 million in 1983 to $24.0 million in 1988 in
1983 prices and finance about 1,600 research projects over that period. Loan
assistance would represent a decreasing share of the total KOSEF program or
from about 25% in 1984 to 10% in 1988.
45.       Collaboration between Graduate Schools and Research Institutes.
Under the Action Program graduate and post-doctoral study and research at
KAIST would be financed from existing scholarship funds for master's and
doctoral graduates from Korean universities and for university faculty; the
approximately 10 major research institutes would each designate by June 30,
1985, a training coordinator for supervision of research training of graduate
students assigned by the universities; members of research institutes would
serve as adjunct professors in university-based graduate programs to enrich
courses and improve research performance; and KOSEF would encourage
researchers based in universities and research institutes to prepare joint
research proposals.
46.       Graduate Education and Research in Science Education.  In order to
strengthen graduate training and research in science education, Government
would establish a new college of education, Korean National University of
Teacher Education, as a center of excellence for training high-level manpower
for teacher education and for research in science education.  Subproject
application and appraisal report for the Korean National UniversiLty of Teacher
Education have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
47.       Faculty Recruitment and Development.  Under the prograra, the supply
of teaching staff would grow from about 6,000 to 14,000 faculty members. The



- 17 -
expansion of teaching staff would be achieved by: (a) increasing output from
local graduate programs; (b) recruiting Korean graduate students on completion
of their training abroad; (c) providing special incentives, including travel
and housing benefits and an initial research fund, for repatriation of Korean
scientists and engineers working abroad; and (d) inviting adjunct professors
from research institutes or industry to offer special courses, to direct
graduate research and to assist in curriculum planning. Repatriation of
Korean scientists and engineers abroad is part of a quite successful ongoing
initiative of Government and would be continued after the program with
government financing. At the projected level of faculty recruitment, by
June 30, 1990 the average teaching load for full-time faculty would be about
10 hours per week and the proportion of faculty on full-time appointments
would average 50%.  To improve incentives, Government has chosen to increase
average salaries for teachers in public institutions in the period 1984-86 at
a rate approximately 2% p.a. above general civil service salary increases.
The share of scholarship funds devoted to graduate education would increase
from 7.5% of all funds for scholarships for higher education to 15% by 1986.
The qualifications of existing faculty members would also be improved under
the program. By 1990, 65% of faculty in science and 50% in science education
and engineering would hold the doctorate. Upgrading of current faculty would
be accomplished by strengthening and expanding local graduate programs;
providing overseas fellowships for training and research opportunities abroad;
and organizing workshops and seminars. Fellowships would be awarded in
accordance with selection criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Facilities and Equipment.  The program aims at increasing laboratory
facilities to 85% and equipment provisions to about 70% of the official stan-
dard in science, science education, and graduate engineering. The proposed
investment in facilities and equipment for colleges of natural science and
colleges of education under the program would enable colleges to increase
laboratory work in science and science education from about 10% to about 30%
of class time.
Secondary Level Science Education (Proposed outlay, approximately $191 mil-
lion, net of contingencies).
49.       Science Curriculum.  In order to improve the effectiveness of
science education within GHSs, the Government would offer high school science
courses on two levels, ordinary and advanced, with requirements in each of
biology, chemistry, earth science and physics for all students. About
140 experimental units would be introduced in the courses with the result that
approximately 20% of instructional time would be devoted to experimental
work. This plan would be implemented progressively from 1984 and reach full
scale within the approximately 800 GHSs by 1988. It would use as supporting
infrastructure 13 RSCs in the nine provinces and four principal cities.
50.       Science Education Development Committee.  Government would establish
by mid-1984 a Science Education Development Committee (SEDC) to oversee plan-
ning and implementation of the secondary science program, particularly curri-
culum and materials development, staff development and procedures for program
monitoring and evaluation.



- 18 -
51.       Program Evaluation.  To support regular review and updating of poli-
cies for secondary science education, performance monitoring and evaluation
would be introduced under the Action Program by June 30, 1985. The monitoring
system would be coordinated by SEDC and the work carried out under contract by
specialists in the colleges of education, KEDI, NIERT or by private consul-
tants. MOE is also preparing a plan for improving, by means of in-service
training, the skills of secondary level science teachers in assessing student
achievement, particularly in their experimental work. Under the Action
Program, the plan would be implemented by June 30, 1985 via in-service
training programs of the colleges of education and RSCs. Terms of reference
for the plan for program monitoring and the plan for improving teachers'
assessment skills have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
52.       College Admissions Procedures.  A study on the college admissions
procedures would examine measures to improve the college entrance examination
system as a tool for both student selection and reinforcement of secondary
science curriculum goals. Terms of reference for this study have been
reviewed by the Bank and are acceptable. The study would commence September
1984. The findings of the study would be implemented in the admissions cycle
for the 1987 academic year.
53.       Recruitment and Staff Development.  Introduction and management of
the new science courses in GHSs require recruitment of additional science
teachers and laboratory assistants. MOE has a plan for increasing recruitment
from about 350 science teachers per year to approximately 700 teachers per
year betweem 1984 and 1988 from among the 5,000 graduates annually of the
colleges of education and colleges of natural science qualified f-or secondary
school science teaching. MOE also plans to recruit an additional 1,300
laboratory assistants by June 30, 1990 from among the ample supply of
graduates of the junior technical or teacher training colleges irt order to
raise the average of laboratory assistants from less than one to two per
GHS.  Staff would also participate in both local and overseas training in
curriculum development, evaluation techniques, and equipment maintenance and
operation. Fellowships would be awarded in accordance with selection criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       Facilities and Equipment.  The deficit in laboratory facilities
would be reduced to 15% by 1990 with finance provided from the special educa-
tion tax or from private sources. The overall deficit in required science
equipment would be narrowed to about 15% by provision of equipment to each of
the 800 GHSs. Each of the RSCs would receive from the program equipment for
the experimental units in the new high school science courses, for enrichment
and teacher training, and for maintenance and repair.
Sector Planning
55.       In order to make the science and techno:Logy education sector more
responsive to economic factors, Government would report more systematically on
manpower and placement services, including liaison with private industry, to
colleges and universities, seek to improve student guidance services and
monitor closely enrollment in relation to program objectives of qualitative
improvement. The planned investment in training scientists and engineers



- 19 -
throughout the 1980s should satisfy in quantitative terms the anticipated
expansion of employment in related occupations. Government recognizes,
however, the tradeoff between quantitative expansion in numbers of scientists
and engineers trained and key objectives of improving the average quality of
higher education in science and technology. On the basis of experience gained
under Loan 1800-KO, the Bank and Government have agreed to adopt a multi-
faceted approach in monitoring the progress in implementing the sector pro-
gram. Indicators and criteria for monitoring the program would include: (i)
student:teacher ratio; (ii) proportion of faculty with Ph.D.; (iii) proportion
of full-time faculty; (iv) average teaching load per week; and (v) indicative
annual enrollment levels. Other factors affecting college enrollments such as
aggregate size and employment prospects of high school graduating classes,
junior college system development and fees structure would also be carefully
analyzed. These performance indicators and criteria would be analyzed during
each annual review to be held between the Government and the Bank during which
agreement would be reached on the targets to be monitored in the following
year (para. 57).
Management and Implementation
56.       Management.  The program for science and technology education would
build upon and expand the program for higher technical education assisted
under Loan 1800-KO. The proposed program would be composed of national
programs (approximately five) and subprojects (about 60). National programs
represent actions that would potentially benefit the entire sector or sub-
sectors and include: the program of research grants under KOSEF; accredi-
tation assistance; staff development programs via overseas and local training,
and repatriation of Korean scientists and engineers abroad; equipment for
approximately 800 GHSs and 13 RSCs; and studies. Subprojects, in contrast,
would be tailored to meet the needs, particularly for equipment, of graduate
schools and colleges that apply under the program. Subprojects from about
10 graduate schools of science and engineering, 30 colleges of natural science
and 20 colleges of education are expected to be supported under the proposed
loan. Each national program and subproject would be processed by the
Government in accordance with guidelines and criteria agreed with the Bank
(Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). MOE would appraise and
approve national programs and subprojects for institutions under its juris-
diction. MOST would supervise the national program of research grants managed
by KOSEF and the KAIST subproject.  Implementation of the program would be
carried out within the existing organizational set-up of MOE and MOST. This
approach would be the most efficient way to execute the development program
for science and technology education. It is also a desirable way of further
institutionalizing program management capacity in government agencies.
57.       Implementation.  Under Loan 1800-KO the Government used procedures
acceptable to the Bank for equipment procurement and technical assistance
management. These same procedures would be used for the proposed sector
loan. Implementation procedures would also incorporate several improvements
designed to accelerate implementation, including appointment of technical
review committees and processing of subprojects well in advance of the effec-
tive date of the loan. Four representative subloan applications and appraisal
reports were reviewed at negotiations as a sample check. The quality and



- 20 -
standards of preparation and appraisal were found to be acceptable to the
Bank. The Bank would only exercise ex post review of additional subprojects
on a sample basis during review missions.  Under MOE, corresponding division
directors would be responsible for monitoring the progress of national pro-
grams and subprojects. Up-to-date information would be collected and semi-
annual evaluation reports prepared. These reports would form the basis for
comprehensive annual reviews with the Bank, during which targets for the
following year would be set. The Bank and the Government have agreed: (a) on
key performance indicators, and first year and mid-term targets, including
indicative annual enrollment levels; and (b) that the annual comlprehensive
review would take place by October 31 annually, and a mid-term review of the
program, by October 31, 1987 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
timing for the mid-term review is linked to full implementation of the Action
Program, expected in 1990. The Government's total investment program in
science and technology education would be implemented over the six years from
January 1984 to December 1989. The schedule of implementation for the entire
program is realistic. All MOE subproject applications are expected to be
prepared, appraised and tentatively approved by the Minister before loan
signing and procurement of subproject equipment through the Office of Supply
Republic of Korea (OSROK) would proceed soon after loan signing. KOSEF
national program and KAIST subproject are likewise at an advanced stage of
preparation. All subprojects and national programs funded by the Bank would
be completed by June 30, 1988.
Cost and Financing
58.       Costs are defined as the investment program for the science and
technology education sector for July 1984 to June 1988, of which the proposed
loan would finance a time slice. The level of the investment program is
appropriate to effect the proposed policy and institutional changes and quali-
tative improvement in the sector.  The investment program is economical and
would be financially feasible. The investment program for public and private
science and technology education is costed at $542 million net of contingen-
cies and $695 million with contingencies. The allocation of investment
between components shows that graduate education and research woulld receive
$193 million; college level $159 million; and secondary level $191 million,
net of contingencies. The public share of the investment program is estimated
at $391 million net of contingencies. The investment program for private
institutions is estimated at $152 million net of contingencies.  Base costs
refer to April 1984 prices. Civil works are estimated on the basis of EPB's
standards for building unit costs and are reasonable; equipment costs are
based on the estimated cost of research equipment at the graduate level and on
standard equipment lists for the college and secondary level updated in 1983
and are reasonable.  The technical assistance component would include 116 man-
months of specialist services; 16,260 man-months of overseas fellowships; and
repatriation for 120 scholars. The man-month cost of overseas fellowships is
expected to average about $1,500 and the cost of each repatriation about
$25,000. About five policy studies and 1,600 KOSEF research grants would be
included in the sector program. The costs of each policy study and of each
KOSEF research grant are expected to average $140,000 and $25,000, respective-
ly. Physical contingencies represent 10% and price contingencies about 18% of
the base cost. Price contingencies are calculated on base costs plus physical



- 21 -
contingencies and estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and
expected annual increases in prices of 3.5% in 1984, 8.0% in 1985 and 9.0%
from 1986 to 1988 in both local and foreign costs. Foreign exchange costs are
estimated at 20% for civil works; 90% for equipment; 90% for specialist
services; 100% for overseas training; 100% for repatriation; 50% for studies;
and 60% for research grants. The foreign exchange cost of the total invest-
ment program is $349 million or 50% of total cost.  The estimated investment
program includes duties and taxes amounting to about $21 million (about 3% of
total program cost). The Government and private institutions would finance
such costs.  Imported instructional equipment and foreign specialists'
services are exempted from taxes. The Government would undertake 62% of the
investment program and private sources 24% (both including all the costs of
civil works).  The proposed Bank loan of $100 million equivalent (including
front-end fee of $0.2 million) would cover 14% of the total investment
program. The loan would represent 29% of the estimated foreign exchange
component.
59.       Recurrent Cost.  The additional recurrent expenditures generated by
the investment program are within ihe financial capacity of Government and the
private institutions. For the pub:Lic sector these additional expenditures
would average about 1.0% of the annual budgets of MOE and MOST between 1984
and 1988. For private institutions total additional recurrent expenditures
would average about $40 million or about 10% of their 1983 annual expendi-
ture. Under the Action Program, the Government would review student fees
annually and authorize adjustments if necessary.  Growth in income from endow-
ments, direct grants from private sources and Government, as well as other
public subsidies, would also be utilized to meet the recurrent costs of
private institutions. The increase in fellowships and scholarships would
assist students in meeting tuition and related costs and broaden access to
higher education.
60.       Financing of Private Institutions.  Assistance for private colleges
and graduate schools under subprojects would be financed through subloans by
the Government to the private institutions. Private institutions would
receive subloans on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that the terms of the
subloans would be the same as those of the Bank loan. As an added incentive
to private institutions, the Government has agreed to prepare each year during
the program a financial plan for private graduate schools, colleges and high
schools to ensure the enhancement of their quality in accordance with the
objectives of the program, and in consultation with the Bank, on the occasion
of each annual and mid-term review, proceed to implement this plan (Section
3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Assistance for private institutions
under national programs would be part of the financial plan and is expected to
be on a grant basis.
Procurement
61.       Procurement arrangements under the proposed program are summarized
in the table below. Civil works, none of which is financed by the Bank, would
be procured through established local procedures. The proposed loan would
finance about $74 million equivalent of equipment, books and materials. In
continuation of the threshold applicable under Loan 1800-KO, equipment pack-
ages of $500,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equipment



- 22 -
items which cannot be grouped to form bid packages of $500,000 equivalent or
more would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, under govern-
ment procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank, subject to an aggregate
total value not exceeding $11 million equivalent (about 15% of the total value
of equipment financed under the loan'). Miscellaneous equipment items in pack-
ages each not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and in aggregate $70C,000 equiva-
lent (or 1% of the estimated value of equipment financed under the loan) could
be procured through direct purchase on the basis of at least three price quo-
tations. Local manufacturers are expected to bid, especially on equipment for
the secondary level, and would be extended a 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower, in bid evaluations. Instruc-
tional materials and books would be procured through direct purchase after
negotiation for discounts. All consultants would be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. Contracts for studies would be
approved and awarded by MOE; contracts under KOSEF research grants would be
approved and awarded by KOSEF. These contracts would be reviewed on a sample
basis Ly visiting Bank missions.
PROCUREMENT PROFILE /a
($ million)
Category of expenditure                  Procurement Method                   Total
ICB      LCB       Dther       N. A.         cost
Civil works                        -      280.9         -           -         280.9
(0.0)                              (0.0)
Equipment and instruc-
tional materials              201.7      37.8       12.6          -         252.1
(61.8)   (11.0)      (0.9)                   (73.7)
Local training                     -         -          -         73.9         73.9
(0.0)        (0.0)
Overseas fellowships               -         -          -         31.5         31.5
(8.3)        (8.3)
Overseas recruitment               -         -          -          3.9          3.9
(3.9)        (3.9)
Specialist services                -         -          -          1.4          1.4
(1.4)        (1.4)
Studies                            -         -          -          0.9          0.9
(0.9)        (0.9)
Research grants                    -         -                    50.5         50.5
(11.6)       (11.6)
Total                       201.7    318.7       12.6       162.1        695.1
(61.8)   (11.0)      (0.9)      (26.1)       (99.8)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 23 -
62.       OSROK was not required to refer to the Bank for prior review of the
estimated 6,000 contracts for equipment or technical assistance under Loan
1800-KO, but rather retained bid evaluation reports, documents and contracts
for selective ex post review by Bank staff during missions. This procedure,
which worked to the Bank's satisfaction as confirmed by regular sample review
of documentation, would be continued under the proposed program. Based on an
analysis of the profile of contracts under Loan 1800-KO, Bank field review of
about 3% of contracts (about 150 contracts above US$100,000 each) would cover
about 40% of the total value of all contracts (estimated to number about
5,500).
Disbursements
63.       The proposed sector loan of $100 million would be disbursed on the
basis of: (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures of imported equipment
including books and materials, or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment; (b) 65% of the cost of other local expenditures for equipment; (c)
100% of the expenditures for specialist services, overseas fellowships,
studies and repatriation of Korean scholars from abroad; and (d) 60% of the
expenditures for research grants. The minimum size for withdrawal applica-
tions would be $100,000. The proposed program would be implemented over a
four-year period commencing from July 1, 1984. The completion date would be
June 30, 1988 and the closing date June 30, 1989.
64.       In reference to documentation of disbursement applications, for
contracts exceeding $100,000, two copies would be submitted to the Bank. For
the large number of contracts below $100,000, statements of expenditure (SOE)
would be used. In this case contracts and supporting documents would be
retained in one location each for KOSEF and MOE, and made available for review
by visiting Bank missions. Disbursements against SOEs would be made on the
basis of a consolidated summary, each not less than $100,000. Disbursements
against other program expenditures would be made against full documentation.
Under the proposed loan, special accounts would be set up for the disbursement
of KOSEF research grants, for KAIST and for MOE. The accounts would be set up
and maintained in US dollars at the Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul, Korea. For
each special account, applications for replenishment would be submitted
quarterly, or more frequently if necessary, with SOEs as supporting
documentation. The opening of the special accounts is a condition for dis-
bursement under each of their respective categories (Paragaph 4 of Schedule 1
to the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
65.       Government would establish and maintain separate accounts to record
expenditures out of Bank loan proceeds. Auditing of accounts, including docu-
mentation of SOEs, would be performed by an independent auditor satisfactory
to the Bank. Annual audit reports would be sent to the Bank within six months
of the end of the Government's fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Bank is satisfied with present auditing standards in Korea.
Six months after the closing date Government would submit a project completion
report to the Bank.



- 24 -
Benefits and Risks
66.       The proposed sector program represents a new approach t:o improving
science and technology education, as one element of a broad effort to raise
the technological level of industry. It focuses on government action with
respect to sector policies and institutions that together hold fa,r-reaching
change in the management and performance of science and technolog;y
education. These adjustments would improve sector management through actions
to set academic standards, concentrate resources for graduate education,
increase research activity in priority fields, and strengthen sector planning
and program evaluation. They would improve sector performance through actions
to increase the supply and qualifications of teaching staff, improve facili-
ties and equipment and increase resources devoted to practical and laboratory-
based educational activities. At the graduate and college levels, by 1990
student:faculty ratios would average 20:1; average teaching load would be
approximately 10 hours per week; about 50% of all faculty would be on full-
time appointments; and the proportion of faculty holding the doctorate would
reach 65% in science and 50% in science education and in engineering. The
shortage of laboratory facilities would be reduced to 15% of the official
standard. The deficit in equipment for research an(i teaching would be reduced
to an average of 30% of the official standard. At the secondary ILevel, all
students in GHSs would study four science subjects; 140 experimental units
would be introduced in these courses; about 20% of instructional time in
science would be devoted to experimental science; and the overall deficit in
laboratory facilities and science equipment would be narrowed to about 15%
each. By 1990 the science and technology education sector would graduate
approximately 7,000 students per year at the graduate level in science or
engineering; 18,000 students at the college level in science or science
education; and 400,000 students per year from GHSs with an improved science
curriculum. As a result of this program these graduates would be of higher
quality and in fields of evident national priority.
67.       While providing substantial benefits, this program comprises mani-
fold changes. It would be complex to execute and would impose a significant
management burden on Government. Due to the significance, complexity and
management load of this program, there is a risk that delays may occur.
However, features of program design and lessons from the program for higher
technical education (Loan 1800-KO) incorporated into this program reduce this
risk significantly. First, the main agencies involved participated exten-
sively in the sector survey in 1981 and 1982 and in the identification and
preparation of the program including revised polic:ies, institutional changes,
and guidelines and criteria for approval of national programs and sub-
projects. Second, the management system and operating procedures 'have been
designed to allow for adjustment during implementation by mutual agreement of
Government and the Bank following annual joint and mid-term reviews. Third,
the schedule for subproject processing and equipment procurement has been
significantly advanced by comparison with the previous sector program. In
sum, Government's familiarity with the content of the program, its commitment
to the objectives, the flexibility of program design, and the borrower's
experience and competence combine to reduce risk of delays to acceptable
levels.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Special Conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Conditions of disbursements include the opening of
three special accounts at the Korea Exchange Bank by the Ministry of
Education, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and the Korea
Science and Engineering Foundation.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 2, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-26-                                                   PAGE 1
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
.OREA, REPUBLIC OF                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTI.ATE) /b
196/b   1970lb  RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970'- ESTIMATSE           ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
ARXA (TEMSAND SQ. Eli)
TOTAL                                 98.5        98.5         98.5
AGRICULTURAL                          21.4        23.2         22.4
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    180.0       420.0       1700.0             1028.6                    2088.2
ENERGY COIBUHFTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       208.0       723.0      1563.0               792.R                    1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   25012.0      32241.0      38880.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         27.7        40.7         55.9               32.9                      65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               52.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 73.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        254.0       327.4        387.9              260.7                      35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            1168.8      1387.3      1702.2              1696.5                      93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                           42.9        42.1         33.7               39.4                      40.1
15-64 YRS                           53.7        54.6         62.3               57.2                      55.8
65 AND ABOVE                         3.3         3.3         4.0                 3.3                       4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.5          1.7                2.3                       2.3
URBAN                                4.7         6.4          4.6                3.9                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          42.7        30.3         24.0               31.3                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          13.4         9.1          6.9                9.6                       8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.7         2.1          1.4                2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..       671.0       686.0/c
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        32.0        55.0                46.6
FOOD AND NUIRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         89.0        99.0       124.0               125.2                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREKENTS)        97.0       107.0       128.0               114.2                     111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            57.0        63.0        82.0                57.9                      67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           7.0         8.0        14.0/d              14.1                      34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            8.6         4.0          2.0                7.6                       5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         54.4        60.3         66.1               60.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         78.3        50.1        33.1                68.1                      62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               12.1        58.0         71.0               37.1                      64.8
URBAN                               18.6        84.0        85.0                54.8                      77.8
RURAL                                9.5        38.0         54.9               26.4                      44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  -        25.0         64.0/e             41.4                      54.6
URBAN                                 ..        59.0        80.07T              47.5                      69.8
RURAL                                 .5. ..                 50.o7              33.4                      29.8
POPL'LATION PER PHYSICIAN           3540.0      2240.0      1690.0              7771.9                    1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             3250.0/f,h  1790.0/b     380.0              2462.6                    1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2510.0      1950.0       640.0/&            1047.2                     477.0
URBAN                             1290.0/f    1100.0        750.0/g            651.1                     667.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..             2591.9                    1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        14.9           ..               27.0                      27.2
HOUIILNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.6         5.0          4.5
URBAN                                5.4          ..
RURAL                                5.6          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                2.5         2.3          2.O/e               .
UR3AN                                2.8         2.7          2.17*e
RURAL                                2.4         2.2          2.o07e
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               28.4        49.9
URBAN                               67.3        92.4
RURAL                               12.4        29.9         64.9/d
________- - ____ - -_ _ _---_ _ _ _ _ _-- _ _-- - -- - - - _-- - --------- _------ _ _ _ _ _ _--_ _ __-- _ _ _-_ _ _ _ __-- __--- _ _ _ _ _-_ _ _ __-- - - _____-- __- ___ -



, -  27  -                                             PAGE 2
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF      - SO6IAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA, REPUBLIC OF                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTI1MATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCCtIE
19601b     "197/-b  ESTIMATE-         ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                   94.0        103.0       107.0              101.2                    105.0
MALE                    99.0       104.0        108.0              106.0                    106.3
FEMALE                  89.0       103.0        105.0               97.5                    103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   27.0        42.0         85.0               44.9                     40.0
MALE                    38.0        50.0         89.0               50.0                     38.6
FEMALE                  14.0        32.0         80.0               44.6                     41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)          14.2         14.3        18.6               18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         57.0        46.0               32.7                     30.7
SECONDARY                          34.0        37.0         39.0               23.4                     16.7
,(                   ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               70.6        87.6        93.0/i              72.9                     79.5
GONSUKPr ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           0.5         1.9          6.2                9.7                     45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         31.2       124.4        392.7              113.7                    228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.3        13.0        164.4               50.1                    108.3
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             68.1        136.3       172.8               54.0                     64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       4.1          5.2         1.7                3.4                      2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          83n7.0     11285.0      15064.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   26.1        32.7         32.5               33.6                     24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.0         50.0        34.0               50.9                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0        17.0         29.0               19.2                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              33.2         35.0        38.7               38.6                     31.3
MALE                               49.5        46.8         51.9               50.7                     49.8
FEMALE                             17.2        23.0         25.4               26.6                     14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.4         1.3          1.0                1.1                      1.4
INCC0E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         17.1        16.1/g             22.2
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        44.5         45.3Tg             48.0
LOWEST 20C OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         7.1         5 77g              6.4
LOWEST 403 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        17.7        16.97_             15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUIPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..        320.0/i            194.5                    289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       270.07?             155.0                    184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                *-           *-       370.0/i            178.0                    519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       310.07?             164.8                    372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (3)
URBAN                                ..           ..        18.0/i             24.4
RURAL                                 .                     11.0/1i            41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries amorg the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1976; lh Registered, not all practicing in the country; Ii 1978.
May 1983



ANNEX I
ISFINITItHS OF SOCIAL ItWOICATORSt
lin..:   lthougho  dues. se  dean- Inn  soones  gn-nshy jud1d th. so  adtt                rtsis   ho alslr   Aiold als  be oute  ttst tins  sl tot be  ,sr.snat
oapratl   beeof s,a lack of  -nadardlad d.eftolions. sod cou-ep-   use..d by different conre                 ocleting nbc data.  fb  data are,    sab            -sa,   .sIu Co
descnho ordes of sgottud, iud ecotn treds, ted cbhrscter-   ett  ioa<jor dffn,es  linao  cuutie..
Th.s refor- s- rop r  (II ta    a    ocr  gopo   issbjc   uu                           n  (21 *  octygru    in   ussa  higher a-rge.o..bn  leoonr group  f tin
soiorcnyloetfr'Og                      os       i   xotr"goP ues'idd leimos  NortS  Aficaf an fiddlie.tact  is  be  becu,o  et insrsgoriul
atfeties.In, the refaee-   groop duo   h org.or   ouainotgndaemel  stat  foreac  trdhato  so  s-Ion  only alien asorlty of tinsch                                                srasi
group has dIta for thatIdrafr   tlce   h.i c-rerge of coun ree  asug, tisIdtsosdpnso   t    ulotiyo  data, as   sntusfr,nutu   ,t
AndA (rh..sa.d e.a.PrlaiourPnscs-Pputundsdd by sasis  of pra-sinta,
loll and 1980 dsn.IPslt..prIisisPro   - Pp                                                                                                         h.t dini1dds by u.a bf fotoo
for crop., pasfres, sarAcs sa  kenche- gard..O  1 l.Ie. fallos; 196l,                          ....rsi .. ouitaris..
1970 aud 180dan.                                                                                     prit    pe.Hsptalle -"  fal  uribs, asd rura  - ftpuL.ieeosfot
GNP Ptg CAPITA 1US11 -  ti  re -aptne  -ar-ane   as  uren   -a rcs                                           cilainle  ih public oed pelnute gEusr-  te d speutlieed huapiss1 aM
1560, 1970, aud loll dato.                                                                               h  0   051on   ineclo t1ineliebapoodogpisialycisda
ENERGY 00eSlOtIONl   tCPn      culoprn   ossru  ofrPEncR                                                      elclconr  nnpesostyeafTAb       i,actnIasb   sI.tda
1960, 1970,  nd180dsa                                                                                      rla  hsltl  Icud    90  rlIislgorsPiopdss  adraf
TotalPoroation   MIdOsar sb-uatda  -  uf July 1; 19t0, 1970, and 191Aatsos                                  e   oala I         IoS - dda ibno   dtstu   oo   icnre
drhlo Poutnit  pecntoftoal  -rtI   o  ubait-os- oplttu 
seoug coueriso 1 llil, 197, od18   oa                                                         aeerg A h ur hldloshl  nroanrloabl)-ttl   ra,su   ua
rofti poulatIonhy ago  nd senat   eteir  orraite  and-frc I rysb   ouchl   or atta ld;a 1 purposes.
copis Cooonleno , ne fsa . left. lnpotuoy    uoclne   e   7. a-                                      ut  roidlaclulo   tio            s  ld      to-p -sosi  otnotune  cr
yas The  aasrr   for f             biitr   rteh l  h--us. etecleol                              eucupedpat
useulogdecIneto  ectIlIy acorIng  o icus  lncl  ne  outtasly                      ccrsto  lorr i It  (P rcon   f ed lius)- tcat onise te  rualb
plnnrgprfrsno.fatcoocyisrtuasige  oe  frhnoto                                            oern  oel  tling    tt  ocrrriyInIttg   uatrsasprcntg
roliunln   0   oralr   sdIrrltytrna  arpojrlu    urocs                                         f  otl  cif,hd  uslIsl lgP.s..Inef
utatosr  pnoltto-c      stn oorypoplaIo   _si   it no.grout
h,lc    f  b  popuaIont   O    cr10   o   h  rats oftdelIne cIyrated  hotiajuse-                                       u      frntlnsso   ntar    drnn   o
:toei,; 190f90   n    e    ut                                                                        oinntl   f1  o1   sro    t;ctaodusceasn
papolasio; 1960   -91,an hlldat.                                                               Poi-oro   o  0-plst.tdacoay-Tt Isuei   nolde
porleton  root trs  rorentI -tere  -Annal  rooh  rnesof  uro  od-      riory  nd   etcdar  Inelodlodedby  usieroof..a.ar.It....ur
year popolorloo  for 1550-60,  1960-70, and 1971-81.                roupondlog Lorbs
rolaltGuthaslerne)u~noculgonbutnf~to                                        dlrlcrI'ao_rrrtt-ltrnrdIn    lhrtrodoso                                     tna
year; p196uoue 1970ICd 1970.nd18 d         uos                                                   CCCff110n"Y ~           ~d
6rIn4  an   at   pe   h65o   Annul dnuh  pot euadof sld-ynr-oaoey    datj.  Iht fon  oP.tton
popoittuc; 190, 191 , d I'll duo.-                                                              cisntteuiu    nt" ehoi ... 'hi panoendse Touts ekla              ,hd asn  ea
In...tr  rams          1950u 60y  19or-ro 0r sor.d edIgI   90 19979,1andI poad cat  nognrlpbi   e  huod  fpplto;cro                                                                 n
19-9h.       m-                                                                                   I t.-nugd.rrceIo-bu l o. coon trIo  sod- en "year  o-I. ref -urro   fai
"plpr Lgrus1   Il                         d         1.fI   clrc   p   Chous1 id1 pplto)                                                                 oonr    u   nedatn
ysdstlfr honteug-tnr   (percent of o               barrhlodloor-od)-   rncntgnsorr                      gcoopnf    rnrsnyyfto:oldeeenyltrensedleonc
natldwaoftncdo  frooy                                                                              hro,nh.     i::1:1001 c-   no-.-n  ypolrlo  I- bon,heocy-
Cuordofnuul..it  un d.u.nd...ecoclno   (bo loldo .... tuleroru,ioldnoonlc   todtn-tcneoaldi
duto.                                                                             Labor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ..dP 100
yrouitaupoorooro(pncntynulrsnte-oaendfo                              Ttoluorococnuantl  corscolycV                          o    bant,ltdln-ngts
doy.   Acallotlr ocyyl los~~~1 cony ldnIcnte   pTdcln  iyrolnuprlnroo   l   rn. Hforun   not oncotne    r   o
oortn    rchoneIacc. Ho   ucloroldaorl   od  onr,rsarbo   15,hOan                                                                             TV1deo
nosorllnt oce In  ood pcrctou4            ..so  Ino .ordnrbcon                                 euo(ero -....rualelhrCocou   arntaeo   oo                              trfrr
loqlrnerc   oro  eC eafd b  rO hindon  hyloleclnr, udculnaluer   rnrol-Lbr  oc   nfrsn,tracy    otn   n
solot  od  oa t   ocldreg   nocoontl   cuparooc,  oy  nltt  ,I tilg  s  a co.un  f  oal thr   ono;190   170an  181daa
orSonool  lol;191-5,170un  180do                   6                                             ad   leor5ly   aoru1970anparcncg  o  ttodln19ore;190
roore  epl   trotC    oca    cuy(-Pono   ocr  of -p ceAco                                         O     7N adISI do,
ne   uypo   cdprdy    ICuSl   fCe   tOfuc   ruon                                                 otyrlo    at   prolI-Otl   u,  r   nocrrllelos
rolYe  yntC,  fu-t  0osn   00Idh   ona    rclo                        ho16,100   n  1901jduns."Three apr hato  00I P1....cu..c p toe, rateo,.
Thr dul   lh.lou   e ine%;19b-65  _90ud10   no                                                 cnocCrnoc    ol      aI   frrlco    ne   fsd6   n   0r
dorlono  fros antoolo  one rulsor In grans por doy;  190_1-1165,  71911dood 191-
OlId(gn   -)Oct    a  h_       thonadl-      grol    s 1upa   Ftonod.t.rrconoc, Priut-luoe  (Lat  Incr   n   Id      eendh   ibo 
roucoinsCoc  dyrend fSo oothn;16,10  on96lot19uo.                                               9couhold,
orhotho; 1960, ; 197     1 sod    1901 1Il d 1to                                                     sndl O,!nroo  o  so  cnsdra l   oo In
yer      dIatre   onon   to    Ceb;100    W0(   o  18   ol.Oiol   oorOInooIcr  lta _ro   cciheu    tleaelis
so ca  noory (Iniodn    eracd lfan I    C'   ed P'  cnsndco                                   receco   Olulc               "Ido Inco -rLce(C)prccs)-obaanrus-
-olay   nII  npr    _nucuo   hortuf           rte   oco7on    I   0p rcs  orueo   o   uor.   na   InlIndrce    neopus
Cr00 oyoto to ad cnelOond de nne rIc Iccu960l Octo.ca                                              19o70er   -oIdoo 1981  tole  lotr   ore d1. iryŽ.chUcŽc~
rural -- Ouhorof Mparyl  (nonal  orh .n ed.    - 65 ru9ullnorco    by ou r
I'idtnucaoryou.uo  torreprco    oeoton                              eruoIno
so   nld    b   olylnan   lpst   lOo   lbolcoren,o                                                                                          coooo  bki ldI Cot   ,losI               _
bu a   ocro   n  osy-uroh  o           19rhon   nste  ortneno   d(uoerAayooalToetontprre
prcle   ololl ur-dto                                                                                                                                                  P--na.  s   983I



ANNEX I
Population:  39,331 (mld-1982, thousands)                                                                                        Page 4 of 5
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,679 (1982)                                        29 -
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                        Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
current prices)                                Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                                      1982 /a              1978       1979       1980       1981       1982                  1988
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                      68,418                11.3        7.1       -3.5        7.1        5.3                   7.5
Agriculture                               11,185               -4.0        6.7      -22.0        22.0        3.8                  4.0
Industry                                  26,747               20.8        8.4       -0.1         5.3        6.1                  8.5
Services                                  30,486               11.0        6.0       -2.4         3.6        4.8                  8.0
Consumption                                 51,487               11.0         7.4      -1.0         3.7        3.6                   6.7
Gross investment                            17,514               35.9        17.5     -24.4         5.0        0.1                   7.5
Exports of GNFS                             26,575                17.5      -3.6         9.9       17.2        4.6                   9.5
Imports of GNFS                             27,215               29.1        8.6       -7.7         8.5       -0.1                  8.6
Gross national savings                      14,531               14.1         3.7     -17.7         3.0       18.2                   9.4
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                                       164.6      197.4      246.7       286.2      309.1                464.1
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                                          484.0      484.0      607.6       681.0      731.1
Export price index (1975 = 100)                                 135.4      161.8       170.3      174.5      167.1                238.7
Import price index (1975 = 100)                                 105.8      129.2       163.9      171.7      158.4                233.3
Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                               128.0      125.2       103.9      101.6      105.5                102.3
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.6        9.8        8.2        7.0         7.5
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5       16.5    15.9    12.4           4.3        4.9       -1.2        7.3         4.0
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4       15.3       13.5        8.5        8.4
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3              8.1        7.7        7.6        6.7        7.7
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1              6.7        7.8        7.1        5.7        7.0
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8             23.6       11.2       14.6        6.0        7.5
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6             29.3       25.4       16.1        9.8        9.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9             20.2       15.8       17.0        6.8        8.9
Gross national savings             8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7         -        -          17.2       14.6        9.0       12.7        9.2
As % of GDP                       Labor Force in 1980              Millions    (Z)
1960       1970       1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                      4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                         3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                         5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3            Unemployed                       0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0         1.3        1.0               Total Labor Force           14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75            1975-80            1980-85            1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                    8.7               9.0                7.9                7.0               7.6
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                         5.9               6.9                5.2                5.5               6.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                    14.2               9.6                8.7                5.7               6.0
ICOR                                                          1.9               2.7               5.4                4.2                4.2
9           Marginal savings rate                                          0.3              0.3                0.3                0.3                0.3
Import elasticity                                             2.2               1.6                2.0                1.2               1.2
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februarv 1984



ANNEX I
- 30-_                                            PageS5 of 5
Population:  39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP Per Capita: US$1,679 (1982)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                               Actual                                Projected
1970    1975    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982               1988
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services               1,379   5,909  17,124  19,523  22,587  27,552  28,500             70,972
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.                882   5,028  12,678  14,694  17,220  20,938  20,961             52,145
Imports of goods and services               2,180   7,992  18,651  24,115  28,360  32,476  31,500             74,003
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.              1,804   6,671  14,436  19,266  21,604  24,337  23,361             58,616
Net transfers                                 178      225     467      439      449     506      473             500
Current account balance                      -623  -1,858  -1,060  -4,153  -5,325  -4,418  -2,546             -2,531
(Z of GNP)                                  (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-2.2) T771) (-9.3)  (-7.4) 7-                     (-3)1.6)
Direct investment                              66       53       61      17       -5      59      100            250
MLT loans (net)                               242   1,252   2,216   2,945   2,096   4,267   2,051              2,294
ufficial                                    147      486     663      852      689   1,337      880            635
Private                                      95      765   1,552   2,093   1,408   2,929   1,171             1,659
Other capital (incl. errors & omissions)   372         929    -510   2,090   3,770       367      484          1,643
Change in reserves                            -57    -376    -707    -898    -536    -275         -98         -1,657
International reserves (gross)                606   2,012   5,405   6,303   6,839   7,114   7,21:'            14,387
Reserves as months imports                    3.3      3.0     3.5      3.1      2.9     2.6      2.'            2.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                               -        -       -        -        -       -       50
Concessional loans                          123      123     184      193      138     159      148
DAC                                       12-2    10-8    1-67      1-73     121     158      1478
OPEC                                        -       -       13       20       17       1        --
IDA                                         1       14       3        -       -        -        --
Other                                       -        1       -        -       -        -        -
Non-concessional loans                      317   1,511   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779   3,93,'
Official export credits                    18      151     219      341     606      844      532
IBRD                                        7     187      321      426     254      306     43tl
Other multilateral                          5      87       89       91      90      104      116
Private                                   287   1,083   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525   2,851.
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            1,797   5,540  11,937  14,553  16,274  19,964  22,006
Official                                  613   2,657   5,016   5,667   6,498   7,702   8,572
Private                                 1,185   2,883   6,921   8,886   9,776  12,263  13,431
undisbursed                                 902   J,679   6,294   5,337   7,072   5,996   5,324
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                      268     667   1,825   2,573   2,762   3,597   4,19'
Interest                                  70     283      657     890   1,310   1,777   2,164
Payments as % exports                      19.4    11.3    10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              ...   2,409   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658  14,100
Interest payments                           ...      ...     236      377     907   1,810   1,52t
Interest as % exports                       ...      ...     1.4      1.9     4.0      6.7      5.1
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (Z)
Official                                    4.5      7.9     7.4      7.6      7.5     8.4      8.0
Private                                     7.1      9.3     9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                                   28.0    19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5
Private                                    10.9      5.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1        8.1
As Z of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                            61
Maturities due within 10 years                           103
interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                             9
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Februar-r 1984



- 31 -                                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA /a
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or                                                                                    Amount ($ million)
Credit     Calendar                                                                     (less cancellations)
Number        Year          Borrower                 Purpose                     Bank       TW      IDA    Undisbursed
p     Thirty-nine loans and eight credits fully disbursed                            2,051.77   40.00   115.58
1319          1976     ADC                   Irrigation                           29.0                             1.03
1364          1977     ADC                   Irrigation                           95.0                             9.35
1401          1977     Republic of Korea   Ports II                               67.0                             1.12
1503          1978     ADC                   Agriculture/Irrigation               36.0                            10.74
1530          1978     Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II                95.0                             2.15
1640          1978     Republic of Korea   Highways IV                           143.0                             2.43
1666          1979     Republic of Korea   Chungju Multipurpose                  125.0                            21.74
1676          1979     Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology                 29.0                             8.47
1758          1979     Republic of Korea   Second Gwangju Regional                65.0                            21.22
1774          1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                           30.0                            24.83
1788          1979     Korea Electric Co.  Power                                 115.0                            16.08
1800          1980     Republic of Korea   Education V                           100.0                            16.08
1829          1980     CNB I                 Dev. Finance Co.                     30.0                             0.53
1836          1980     Republic of Korea   Railway VII                            94.0                             5.87
1851          1980     AFDC                  Agriculture II                       50.0                             8.22
1932          1981     KLTCB VIII            Div. Finance Co.                     90.0                            11.84
1933          1981     KDB IV                Div. Finance Co.                    100.0                             2.60
1974          1981     Republic of Korea   Third Agriculture Credit               50.0                             2.15
1980          1981     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land & Housing              90.0                            43.79
2004          1871     SNUV IV               Dev. Finance Co.                     60.0                            19.78
2072          1982     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                           90.0                            47.93
2111          1982     Republic of Korea   Agricultural Marketing                 50.0                            35.03
2112          1982     KTDC                  Technology Development               50.0                            26.66
2144          1982     CNB                   DFC                                  30.0                            19.07
2215          1982     Republic of Korea   Machinery Industry                     70.0                            66.70
2216          1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land and Housing           100.0                            94.78
2228          1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Roads           125.0                           104.29
2267          1983     Republic of Korea   Coal and Cement Distribution          122.0                           121.67
2309          1983     Republic of Korea   Industrial Finance                   255.0                            243.74
2350          1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                   78.5                             72.38
2354          1983     Republic of Korea   Second Structural Adjustment          300.0                           100.00
2388          1984     Republic of Korea   Iconju Regional Development            60.0                            60.00
2392          1984     Republic of Korea   Highway Sector                        230.0                           230.00
Total                                                           5,105.27   40.00   115.58        1,452.27
of which has been repaid                                        608.96    2.16       5.85
Total now outstanding                                           4,496.32   37.84   109.74
Amount sold                    8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                     -       -         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                4,496.32   37.84   109.74
Total undisbursed                                               1452.27       -         -1,452.27
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                             Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year         Obligor            Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968     KDFC                    Development Financing            -     0.7    0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.          Textiles                        1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper             Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -        0.7    0.7
1974     KDFC                    Development Financing           -      0.4    0.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -        0.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.        Synthetic Fibers                6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                          2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -        0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                             5.0    0.5    5.5
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KDFC                    Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977     KDFC                    Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                   -     0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market                 15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KDFC                    Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                    Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                          -     0.2    0.2
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980/84  Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products               -      2.8    2.8
1980     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                   -     0.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Corp.                                          -     2.3    2.3
1980     KDFC                    Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.             Grain Port Terminal             7.0    2.5    9.5
1982     KIFC                    Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development            -     0.6    0.6
1983     KDIC                    Money & Capital Market          -      0.9    0.9
Total gross commitment                               106.4   31.9  138.3
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                                92.2    5,,6   97.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                     14.2   26,3   40.5
TOTAL undisbursed                                   -_     _         __
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 33-                             ANNEX III
KOREA
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION SECTOR PROGRAM
Supplemental Program Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the program         12 months
(b)  Program prepared by                                      The Government
(c)  Date of first mission to consider the program            April 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission                                        October 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations                               April 1984
(f)  Planned loan effectiveness                               August 1984
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Government and the Bank to undertake a comprehensive program
mid-term review by October 31, 1987.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Ministry of Education (MOE), the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology (KAIST) and the Korea Science and Engineering
Foundation (KOSEF) to open special accounts at the Korea Exchange
Bank for disbursement under their respective categories as a
condition of loan disbursement (para. 64);
(c) Government to prepare reports for annual and in-depth mid-term
review of progress measured against key performance indicators and
annual and interim targets (para. 57).






IBRD 12351R2
U tS USS RX   $ 1                                   1277                               1278                                 I 29                        IBR MAY58
/   /    -                       DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
C H I N A                                                              OF KOREA
a-5   ,un Sea  t                                                      <;                             <      "    r     )     fih                  S
J)p'el Selow    ARch                                                                                                                   Ea S e  t
Sea!OY                                                               G                Chunch    ANG  WEON
Pa,ifi                'K4~1
East  '  Ocea                                                                                                           ao eongbu
125-                               126t   '                                                                                                                   mc heok M -E
3K'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
35~~~~~~                   C            VeoSA     JE O N~~~~~~~~~~~Chogj                                                   no
~~~ 4MO§P~~~~~~~~~~~  Ny                                                                    
Yellow  S   e   a                        Yea.                            eon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Prt
J   F   0    N                                                            g 0  0  A  0  5
SRARIPO                                                    MIL~~~~~~~~~~~~egu
25'  12A'                                 127'                                   28'                                 529'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



