FI~LE       COPY                0BECIRCUJLATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1461-BD
REPORT.AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 5, 1974
Thb, report wu prepared for offical use only by tho Bakr Group. It may not be publ,
quoted 'or cited without Bank Group authorization. The iBan Cro  I
responsibility for the accuracy or completenes thereponT  uo  . not accept,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS l
(as of May 31, 1974)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$1.00       = Tk 7.92
Tk 1          = US$0.126
Tk 1 million = US$126,000
US$ 1 million = Tk 7,920,000
MEASURES EQUIVALENT
1 statute mile (mile) = 1.610 kilometers
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BITT  -   Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department
C&AG  -   Comptroller and Auditor General
DEL   -   Direct Exchange Line
DTC   -   Divisional Training Center
FY    -   Fiscal Year
HF    -   High Frequency (Low Capacity Radio)
STD   -   Subscriber Trunk Dialling
Telex -   Teleprinter Subscriber Exchange Service
TTC   -   Telecommunications Training Center
UHF   -   Ultra High Frequency
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Program
USAID -   United States Agency for International Development
VHF   -   Very High Frequency
FISCAL YEAR
Ends June 30
1/ The taka is officially valued at a fixed pound sterling rate
(Tk 18.9677 = £) and, as the pound is now floating relative to
the US dollar, the US dollar/taka exchange rate is subject to
change. The exchange rate used for purposes of preparing data
for this report is US$1 to Tk 7.50, which was the prevailing
exchange rate at the time of appraisal in October/November 1973.



INTERNATIONAL DE'JELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$20 million on standard IDA terms. The proposed credit would help
finance part of the foreign exchange requirements of the first Bangladesh
Five-Year Telecommunications Development Program. The proposed credit would
be onlent to a telecommunications board, when constituted, at 6 1/4 percent
with repayments to be completed over twenty-five years from the date of
signature of this proposed credit, including five years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Reconstructing the Economy of Bangladesh"
(R72-230) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 13, 1972.
A Basic Economic Mission visited Bangladesh in September/October 1973 and
a report of its findings will be distributed shortly. A country data sheet
is attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        The inhabitants of Bangladesh are poor, per capita income being
only about US$70. They have little opportunity to generate savings. Popu-
lation is growing at about 3 percent per annum, and the immediate needs of
the people for food and basic consumer goods are so great that current commit-
ments at least to prevent per capita GDP from falling, form the major focus
of economic management. This makes it difficult to give attention to coherent
longer-term programs. The country is very densely populated (1,400 per square
mile), lacks natural resources, and is consequently heavily dependent on
imports. All of these factors combine to make decisions about resource
allocation exceptionally complex.
4.        Independence on December 16, 1971 brought rising expectations to
the average Bengali. But the task of improving his lot had clearly been
made much more difficult by the destruction which had taken place over the
previous two years, first as a result of the cyclone of late 1970 and then
from the political upheavals of 1971 which resulted in war and finally
independence. The first two years during which the Government of Bangladesh
was in control of the country were dominated by an emergency situation in
which law and order had to be re-established, political stability achieved,



-2-
and the administrative framework reconstituted. The millions of refugees
who had migra&ed temporarily to India had to be resettled and provided with
relief. The transport system needed to be reconstructed to permit the
distribution of food and other supplies.
5.        Most of these urgent tasks of reconstruction were tackled speedily,
although viable long-term solutions to the problems of the Bangladesh
economy are still proving elusive.   The Governnent was aided in its efforts
in part by massive assistance, initially from India, and subsequently from
a number of other countries and private international agencies, mostly
under the auspices of the United Nations. United Nations relief operations
have been terminated as of December 31, 1973, after two years, in which about
US$1.4 billion were disbursed, largely for emergency relief. The vital port
of Chittagong was restored to 90 percent of its prewar capacity by the end
of June 1972. Roads were quickly, if temporarily, repaired, and ferries
were brought in to substitute for damaged bridges. The vital Bhairab
bridge which links Chittagong to Dacca by rail was fully repaired in
September 1973.
6.        Among the principal achievements of the Government since in-
dependence has been the establishment of a parliamentary democracy which
has given the people a measure of political participation which they felt
had hitherto been denied to them. Some progress was made towards restoration
of law and order to the countryside - sufficient at least to have permitted
the first parliamentary elections to be held in March 1973. However, the
law and order situation remains one of the principal problems of the Government.
7.        The achievements to date pale in the face of significant and disturbing
problems which remain to be solved before Bangladesh can be said to be launched
on a path of stable economic development. External assistance has tapered
off to a level below that of the initial infusions of aid. Meanwhile stocks
of raw materials and spare parts are very low, some staple consumer items
are disappearing from the market and inflationary pressures are a serious
continuing problem.
Food and Other Production
8.        The gravest problem confronting the Government since independence
has been the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the crop of
December 1971 was disrupted by the war. Record levels of food imports
of about 2.5 million tons in 1972 prevented the widely feared famine from
oecuring. Nevertheless, per capita foodgrain availabilities in 1972
were well below 1969/70 levels and this combined with internal transport
difficulties, widespread hoarding, and smuggling of foodgrains to India,
led to a 50 percent rise in prices over the year. By October 1972 it was
apparent that the monsoon had again been poor, and the main rice crop was
20 percent lower than normal. Rapid increases in population and the need
to build up depleted stocks added to the crisis, and imports of approx-
imately 2.4 million tons of foodgrains were again necessary in 1973.



Assistance in financing, procuring, transporting and distributing these
massive imports was the United Nations' most conspicuous achievement, and
also an achievement for the Government, which has gradually taken over
this task.
9.        The present position is still uncertain.   Estimates differ, but
it seems likely that, due mainly to rather favorable weather conditions,
the main (aman) 1973/74 rice crop was about 7 million tons. If so, production
for 1973/74 may have reached a record level of 12 million tons. However,
much depended and will continue to depend on the ability of the Government
to implement its announced policy of procuring large quantities of foodgrains
in the local market in surplus areas for distri'ution through ration shops to
low and fixed income groups. Failure to do so has serious implications for
the level of imports of other commodities. In Lhe absence of Government
procurement, hoarding and smuggling reduce the total amounts available to
the economy. The government's Internal Procurement Scheme had set itself
a purchasing target of 300-400 thousand tons of rice for the aman crops.
However, between November 15, 1973 and February 19, 1974, only 65,000 tons
had been actually purchased. The poor procurement performance is attributed
to insistence on rigorous quality specifications, an uncompetitive procure-
ment price and the attractions of hoarding and smuggling in a period of
rising free market prices. Even on "optimistic" assumptions - no increase
in the consumption level or in stocks, both of which are already low and a
good boro harvest - the Government would have to import at least about 1 million
tons for calendar 1974, and larger imports now seem inevitable. The stark
reality is that even with improved crop production, Bangladesh will continue
to require substantial foodgrain imports for a number of years.
10.       Elsewhere in the economy, non->agricultural sectors have been
slow to recover. Industrial activity came to a virtual standstill from
November 1971 to January 1972. Industrial production recovered to some
degree fairly rapidly in 1972 and 1973, but 1969/70 levels of output
have not yet been achieved consistently (with considerable variation among
industries). A weighted index of industrial production (1969/70 = 100),
constructed by the Bangladesh Central Bank, shows an improvement from 64 in
1972/73 to 88 in 1973/74. The difficulties impeding a return to full production
continue to arise from the lack of raw materials, spare parts, components and
other material inputs, the lack of repair and maintenance, the inability to
replace certain key items of machinery and equipment lost during the disturb-
ances, and power failures. These latter have resulted more from inadequate
transmission and distribution facilities, or from problems in transporting
fuel, than from lack of generating capacity. Transport is also a bottleneck;
there are still fewer trucks and buses than were available before the war.
With stocks extremely low or non-existent, any one of these factors can cause
an enterprise to come to a complete standstill. The productivity and pro-
fitability of industrial enterprises are generally low and their financial
position precarious, making their full recovery more difficult to achieve.
In addition, there are significant pockets of labor unrest. The resulting
low levels of output have been a major factor in contributing towards the



- 4 -
high levels of inflation. The general cost of living index of middle class
people at Dacca (1969/70 = 100), stood at 259.2 during February, 1974, while
the index for industrial workers at Narayanganj (1969/70 = 100), rose to 287.4
in the same month. In major cities the cost of living increased by 60 percent
in the year ending in June 1973.
Trade
11.       Total exports in fiscal year 1972/73 are estimated at about
US$385 million, which compares with about US$500 million exported to Pakistan
and other countries in the prewar period. Much of this decline is on items
such as tea, matches and spices, which were formerly exported to Pakistan.
Prices of raw jute and jute goods have improved as a result of the improved
market for jute, consequent on the rise in the price of oil-based synthetics.
The volume of jute exports is expected to be the same as it was in 1972/73.
A subsidy of 30 percent has been given to 79 non-jute exports since the
beginning of FY1973/74, but this is unlikely to contribute much to export
earnings in the short run because of substantial increases in the costs of
production since independence, the industrial difficulties noted above, and
the fact that non-jute exports now represent only about 10 percent of the
tetal value of exports. Overall, export earnings in 1973/74 are predicted
at about US$450 million.
12.       One of the major factors impeding the growth of production (and
exports), and another major cause of the rapid increase in the general level
o£ pxes, has been the lack of imports.     Non-food imports in 1972/73 were
well. below the 1969/70 level. In part, this is due to failures in the
administrative arrangements for the procurement of imports, including those
provided under foreign aid. The increases in the international prices of
rmxjt'nr imrported commodities such as foodgrains, cotton and cement have also
contributed significantly to the problems of import planning and procurement.
Tne recent escalation in oil prices is estimated to add a further US$60 million
t.: the annual import bill. For 1973/74, the non-food import targets of
a6o;it US$720 million can be achieved only if the efficiency of the licensing
sn'i tlhe importing systems is improved to a significant degree, and only if
funds do not have to be diverted to increased food imports as a result of
the failure of local procurement. Further, it is important to note that
cne planned target for non-food imports allows for no buildup of stocks,
wbich is a crucial factor in the production process.
Thbe Aunnual Plans of 1972/73 and 1973/74
13.       in July 1972 the first budget and Annual Plan (for 1972/73) were
-krei-eénted; they proposed some IUS$430 million of public development expenditure
and a 41urther US$160 million for reconstruction.  About half of the development
expenditure was for agriculture, rural institutions, and water and flood control.
?to.p-:'onai 1972/73 budget estimates show a 20 percent shortfall in development
expen,liture.  Considering the price rises during the year, the shortfall in



- 5 -
real terms was far higher. The need to provide substantial subsidies for
public sector enterprises led to larger than budgeted deficit financing
through net credit to the public sector. The money supply expanded by 108
percent between December 1971 and December 1973. This combined with commodity
shortages to cause serious price problems; because of their political implica-
tions, these loom large in the short-term economic concerns of the Government.
14.       The budget and Annual Plan for 1973/74, which appeared in July
1973, anticipated an increase in projected development expenditure of 30 per-
cent over the revised estimates for 1972/73. However, the most recent estimates
of the budget outlook for 1973/74 show a more modest increse of 7 percent in
development expenditure over the revised estimates for 1972/73. The priority
given to agriculture remains unchanged. Non-development expenditure in
1973/74 is estimated to increase by 69 percent over the revised estimates
for 1972/73, principally due to additional outlays for defense and increased
pay. The volume of aid disbursements is estimated to be at the same level
as in 1972/73 and the Plan thus places heavy reliance on mobilizing domestic
resources. Given the shortfall on this account which took place in 1972/73,
the achievement of these targets would require improved performance both on
the fiscal and project implementation sides. lowever, revised estimates of
the budget outlook for 1973/74 indicate that revenues may be as much as
13 percent lower than earlier estimates with the result that the previously
expected current surplus is transformed into a small deficit. The burden of
adjusting to the anticipated drop in revenue receipts has fallen on development
expenditure; outlays have been pruned by 19 percent as compared with original
budget estimates, though estimates of current non-development expenditure
show an increase of 29 percent. Domestic capital receipts in 1973/74 are
expected to reveal a shortfall of 68 percent, as compared with original
budget estimates. In addition, foreign loans and grants may be lower than
originally anticipated. The maintenance of budgetary expenditure at the levels
postulated, will therefore, necessitate heavy recourse to deficit financing,
with additional pressures on prices. These pressures are likely to be
exacerbated by a substantial increase in the food account deficit which is
financed through the banking system. Some relief may, however, be derived
from measures adopted on March 31, 1974, when the prices at which agricultural
inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides were sold were raised.
The First Five-Year Plan
15.       The First Five-Year Plan, covering the period 1973/74 - 1977/78, was
approved by the cabinet in early November 1973. The Plan aims at increasing
GDP at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent in real terms, and its primary
strategies are to reduce dependence on imports of foodgrains and to improve
the balance of payments by import substitution and export promotion. Apart
from self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the Plan expects major import substitu-
tion to come from new industries, notably fertilizer and synthetic fibers
to be based on indigenous natural gas. To achieve these targets, the Plan
calls for financial development outlay of US$5.9 billion, about US$5.3 billion
of which is allocated to the public sector. Agriculture and water resources
would receive the highest priority with a projected outlay of about 24 percent
of total development expenditure.



- 6 -
16.       The Plan places heavy reliance on mobilizing domestic resources.
It calls for savings generated in the public sector of about 41 percent
of public sector development spending, with foreign aid making up approx-
imately a further 43 percent. On the evidence of 1972/73, however, the
'lan targets for domestic resource mobilization now appear out of reach
:.n real tenns.
External Assistance to Bangladesh
17.       The preceding analysis makes it evident that Bangladesh will
require large and continuing external assistance on very favorable terms
if it is to achieve an acceptable growth rate. Long-term projections suggest
that, even to maintain present per capita income levels in the face of con-
tinued population growth, net aid disbursements of between US$100 million
and US$200 million per annum would be required. Average net aid disbursements
of US$500 million per year over the Five-Year Plan period would be required
to permit imports to be maintained at a level of US$0.9 to 1.0 billion and
the rate of investment at the 12-15 percent of GDP level which is needed for
a 5 percent per annum growth of GDP. Net aid disbursement levels of about
US$300 million per annum would permit imports of only about US$700 million
per annum which, given a higher foodgrain component and substantially higher
world commodity prices, would allow for no more investment goods and raw
materials than were imported in 1969/70 into the area that became Bangladesh.
18.       Sustained growth of 5 percent per annum would produce only a 2
percent growth in per capita GDP; at this rate another two decades would be
needed before GDP per capita would pass US$100. The prospects for achieving
the required minimum import level for 1973/74, about US$900 million including
foodgrain imports, are not bright. As stated in paragraph 11 above, export
proceeds are not expected to be more than US$390 million. Projected foreign
aid disbursements includes the following: bilateral project aid, lTS$77 million;
bilateral food and commodity aid, US$300 million; IDA project aid, US$19 million;
and IDA program credits US$47 million, and ADB project aid llS$7.45 million.
19.       The emergency phase of foreign assistance in Bangladesh came to
an end with the termination of the United Nations relief operations. There
were no large amounts of undisbursed funds left in the UN coordinated rehabil-
itation program. Total aid commitments to date, which were about US$1.4
billion as of December 1973, have been ample and on generous terms (with
suppliers' credits forming only a small part of overall aid inflows), and
indications are that the dollar amounts of these commitments will remain at
about the same annual level, about US$450 million through FY75. Disbursements,
however, are likely to be limited by the capacity to procure and import
efficiently, by world supply shortages of some basic commodities, and by the
lack of a sufficient number of well prepared projects.
20.       Bilateral programs of assistance during the immediate post-independence
period have been flexible and oriented towards quick-disbursing commodity
and program lending both to relieve the critical food situation and to respond
to the country's immediate import needs. All of the bilateral agencies, however,



- 7 -
now wish to redirect their operations program towards development projects,
especiallv in agriculture and rural development. However, it is by no means
certain that project lending will be a major feature of external assistance
to Bangladesh over the next 12 months. Virtually all donors to Bangladesh
have committed non-food commodity credits for 1973/74, though a good deal of
this aid is tied to designated sources of supply.   Even under present assump-
tions about project preparedness, only about 55 percent of total non-food
aid to Bangladesh during 1973/74 will he in the form of program lending,
compared with about 70 percent in 1971/72 and 66 percent in 1972/73. The
estimated percentage of program aid for 1974/75 is under 50 percent, which
reflects donors' intentions of redirecting aid commitments towards projects
in the Five-Year Plan. Mlajor donors are conscious, however, that they may
be required to direct more resources than presently contemplated towards
program aid, because so few projects are ready, and because the need for
program aid persists, especially in the light rf recent world price increases.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
21.       Since Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and of the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh have concentrated mainly
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits
to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in
an aggregate amount of US$151.4 million (including US$44.1 million for the
repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the corresponding previous
credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh. The last reactivation
credit (US$25.0 million for the Highway Project) was signed on June 29, 1973.
In addition, five new credits have been made, totalling US$115.6 million:
US$50.0 million for a Reconstruction Imports Program; US$7.5 million for the
Cereal Seeds Project; US$4.0 million for the Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.1 million for the Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project and
US$50.0 million for an Imports Program.; The proposed credit would, therefore,
be the Association's sixth new operation in Bangladesh since the country
became independent.
22.       Until both Pakistan and Bangladesh agree on a division of the
total external public indebtedness of Pakistan through 1971 when Bangladesh
became independent, it is not possible to accurately state any figure for
Bangladesh's total public indebtedness, or for its total debt service. Annex
II contains a summary statement of (i) IDA credits made to Bangladesh, (ii) the
loans and credits to Pakistan for completion of projects located wholly in
Bangladesh and for which new loans or credits have not been made to Bangladesh,
and (iii) notes on the status of execution of ongoing projects. There are no
IFC investments in Bangladesh. Of the total of IDA credits of US$266.95 million
made to Bangladesh to date, only about US$81.6 million (including IIS$44.1
million for repayments of amounts disbursed under some of the corresponding
credits to Pakistan) has been disbursed as of April 30, 1974. This poor
performance is attributable to a combination of factors including Government



- 8 -
procedures for hiring consultants and for awarding procurement and civil
works contracts; and shortages of construction materials such as cement.
Various ways of improving this situation are being discussed with the
Government. The central Government procuremeni agency is now making efforts
to plan sufficiently in advance to meet the materials requirements of the
Government and its staff is acquiring greater experience in dealing in the
international commodity markets. As recorded in the minutes of negotiations
between representatives of the Government and of the Association for the
Imports Program credit, the Government agreed to undertake a comprehensive
study of its import control system. The study is currently being organized
and when completed, will contain recommendations for removing the bottlenecks
in the system. Many of the top officials are unfamiliar with our disbursement
procedures. This has also been a factor in the slow disbursement rate and,
to rectify it, staff members from the Controllers' Department visit Bangladesh
several times each year to discuss our disbursement procedures with the
various executing agencies of the Government.
23.       Previous IDA lending and prospects for FY74 reflect the interruption
of project preparation efforts in 1971 and the precedence taken since then
by reconstruction efforts. Three IDA projects, the Reconstruction Imports
credit, the Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation project and the Imports
Program credit therefore concentrated on program-type lending to meet the
most urgent short-term needs of the economy. Although program lending is
expected to remain a necessary feature of IDA assistance through the foresee-
able future, the proportion of project lending will increase year by year.
Three projects are expected to be ready for presentation in early FY75.
They are the Barisal Irrigation Project, a population planning project, and
a fertilizer production project. Discussions are underway with other potential
lenders concerning joint or parallel financing of the population and fertilizer
projects.
24.       For the longer term, IDA has provided funds under the Technical
Assistance Credit to assist the Government with studies and technical
assistance needed in overcoming the hiatus in project preparation and thus
help to develop a stream of projects which would serve longer-term develop-
ment objectives.
25.       The Association recognizes the prime importance of the agricultural
sector (on which the livelihood of about 80 percent of the population
depends) and accordingly plans to allocate to agriculture a much higher
percentage of lending than before. Before 1971 only one-third of Bank Group
lending to the area of Bangladesh went to agriculture. This was mainly
the result of the unusual difficulties encountered in the formulation and
execution of agricultural projects - difficulties arising from Bangladesh's
river dominated terrain and a climate that alternates devastating floods with
drought, as well as a very high population density. In response to these
difficulties, a review of alternative strategies for the development of
the agriculture and water resource sector was undertaken by the Association
during 1971 and 1972. It suggested that in view of the immense technical



and financial problems encountered in the carrying out of capital intensive
water control projects, and the immediate critical need to increase food
production as quickly as possible, there was a need for a stronger emphasis -
especially during the next few years - on less ambitious projects designed
to yield results more rapidly. This vi.aw of priorities is set forth in
detail in the Bank's nine volume "Land and Water Resource Sector Study"
(Report No. PS-13, dated December 1, 1972). With this in mind a number of
agricultural projects are being prepared or will be prepared, in many cases
with financial assistance from IDA provided under several credits including
the Technical Assistance credit. Projects already under preparation include
minor irrigation works and supporting agricultural inputs in the Muhuri and
Karnafuli river areas, an inland fisheries project, an integrated rural
development project, an agriculture training project, and a second foodgrain
storage project.
26.       Growth of sectors other than agriculture will require attention as
well, particularly the development of the transportation system to improve
the distribution of agricultural inputs and bring farm output and food
imports to market, improvement in telecommunications required to facilitate
development in agriculture and industry and to improve administration, and
the development of industries, especially those (such as fertilizer) serving
the rural areas and those based on agricultural materials. The scope for
further transportation projects should be defined by the Bangladesh Trans-
portation Sector Survey now being completed with United Kingdom assistance.
In industry, the Association has completed a survey of the small-scale sector
(Report No. 154a-BD, July 23, 1973) and a proposed second small-scale
industries project is expected to carry on the work of the first small-
scale industries project. It may also help rural-based industries such as
cottage and handloom industries. A DFC type operation is also under
consideration.
PART III - TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN BANGLADESH
27.       With only 0.07 telephone per 100 inhabitants, Bangladesh has one
of the lowest densities of telephones in the world. Yet, the need for good
telecommunications facilities for economic growth is particularly strong
in Bangladesh due to the difficult topography of the country, the wide area
over which agriculture is distributed and the scarcity of good all-weather
roads. Improvements in the administration of the country, and the growth
of the economy in sectors like manufacturing industry and commerce will
make increasing demands on the existing telecommunications facilities. There
is a substantial unsatisfied demand for local telecommunications services as
evidenced by the present waiting list of over 26,000 for telephones, which is
equivalent to about half of the existing connections.



- 10 -
28.       The existing facilities for local telephone services consist of
250 exchanges with an equipped capacity of 65,000 lines serving about
53,000 direct exchange lines. Except for two microwave systems and some
old unreliable very high frequency systems, the long distance facilities
operate over openwire lines. While point-to-point subscriber trunk dialling
services are in operation between Dacca and six large towns, trunk service
is operated manually throughout the rest of the country. There is extensive
delay in traffic and a large number of ineffective calls. Telex is available
only at Dacca and Chittagong. International services are limited, unreliable,
and of very poor quality because they operate over unstable land-line and
high frequency radio circuits which are susceptible to disturbances. The
coverage and capacity of the system are inadequate and the quality of service
for all levels of telecommunications re(quirements is very poor.
Sector Institutions
29.       The telecommunications sector comprises the Bangladesh Telephone
and Telegraph Department (B.T.T.), a cable factory and a telephone switching
equipment factory.  Before Bangladesh became independent the telecommunica-
tions services in the region were operated by the Pakistan Telephone and Tele-
graph Department. B.T.T. is responsible for the development, operation and
administration of all public telecommunications services in Bangladesh as well
as those between Bangladesh and other countries. It is a department of the
Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephone. As a young organization, B.T.T.
is handicapped in its operations by a lack of experienced trained personnel.
Accounts and other essential records of its operations as a branch of the
Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department were maintained in West Pakistan
and are not now available to Bangladesh. The top management of B.T.T. is
staffed by relatively young officers who occupy senior decision making posi-
tions for the first time. Many of them are, however, not without experience,
having been middle-management staff members of the Pakistan Telephone and
Telegraph Department. The Secretarv for Post, Telegraph and Telephone to
whom the Director General reports, exercises close supervision over B.T.T.'s
operations. He is a highly qualified telecommunications engineer and was
formerlv the Chief Engineer of the Pakistan Telephone and Telegraph Depart-
ment.
30.       The two factories are owned jointly by the Government of Bangladesh
(SI percent) and Siemens A.G. of the Federal Republic of Germany (18 percent).
The cable factory, established in 1971 and designed to serve both East and
W4est Pakistan now operates at 40 percent of its production capacity due to
leduced demands for its products. Its prices are comparable to those of
similar factories in other countries. The telephone switching equipment
factory, on the other hand, is at an earlier stage of its development and
has not yet attained full production efficiency. The factory was originally
designed to receive a large number of the manufactured components essential
to the assembly of its final products from another factory in West Pakistan.
Since Bangladesh independence, the supply of these components has stopped.
Early in 1973, the Government and Siemens signed a new agreement under which



Siemens is now assisting the factory by assigning its engineers to key posi-
tions of tool-making, production, assembly, quality control and product test-
ing. Under a bilateral arrangement between the Government and the Federal
Republic of Germany, the factory is receiving raw materials from Germany
for its local manufacturing work and for components essential to the assembly
of its final products. These arrangements are working well and the factory
is expected to raise its production level from 3,000 lines in 1972-73 to
8,000 lines in 1973-74 and to its full design capacity of 20,000 lines by
1976-77. Both factories coordinate their operations with the requirements
of B.T.T. thus ensuring the timely availability of telephone switching
equipment and cables.
Bank Group Assistance to the Sector
31.       In 1969, Pakistan launched a major telecommunications development
program which had components in both its eastern (now Bangladesh) and
western wings. The Association participated in financing the foreign
exchange requirements of the program through Credit No. 145-PAK of US$16
million equivalent in 1969 and Credit No. 186-PAK of US$15 million equivalent
in 1970. The larger part of the telecommunications equipment being financed
with these two credits was for installation in West Pakistan.
32.       During the 1971 disturbances in East Pakistan, work on the
telecDmmunications development program came to a complete halt and the
existing telecommunications system was damaged. At the end of the disturbances,
the Government of Bangladesh sought help from the United Nations Relief Opera-
tions in Dacca (UNROD) and from several bilateral donors to restore the system
to its pre-1971 level of operation. The high level United Nations Consultants'
Mission (the Sailer Mission) which visited Bangladesh in March 1972 to assess
the requirements of the country for relief and rehabilitation included two
seconded Bank staff members who were responsible for estimating the requirements
for restoring the telecommunications system. In accordance with their
recommendations, the Association agreed to include some items for the telecom-
munications sector among those eligible for financing under the Reconstruction
Imports Credit (No. 345-BD). The Government has allocated an amount of
US$0.5 million equivalent for these items under Credit No. 345-BD to supple-
ment amounts provided by other donors participating in the reconstruction
effort.
33.       Anxious to press ahead with urgently needed development, the
Government requested the Association to reactivate the earlier telecommuni-
cations project components located within Bangladesh which were being
financed under previous credits to Pakistan. In response to this request,
the Association made the First Telecommunications Credit in an amount of
US$7.3 million equivalent to Bangladesh in November 1972 (Credit No. 343-BD).
Due to the US dollar devaluation and the yen revaluation, and also because
of limited availability of IDA funds, it was not possible to include in
Credit No. 343-BD, all the original project components located in Bangladesh
but formerly to be financed under Credit Nos. 145-PAK and 186-PAY. The



- 12 -
projEct under Credit No. 343-BD was, therefore, limited to the provision
of nicrowave systems on the Dacca-Bogra, Dacca-Mymensingh and Dacca-Sylhet
routes and of coaxial cable systems on the Kushtia-Natore-Rajshahi and
Bogra-Rangpur routes. The suppliers for the microwave systems agreed to
supply the equipment at prices earlier quoted to Pakistan; however, the coaxial
cable supplier, expressed his inability to supply at the original price
in view of the increases in prices of copper and lead. Considering the present
costs of microwave and coaxial cable systems, the Government requested that
microwave systems be substituted for the coaxial cable systems provided under
Credit 343-BD. Our technical evaluation indicated that at current prices,
this proposed change is justified. Nonetheless, it was found that in spite
of this substitution, there would still be a cost overrun in the foreign
exchange cost of the First Telecommunications Project, largely due to changes
in currency parities since the project was appraised. In order to provide
additional financing required, it is proposed that the Bogra-Rangpur tele-
communications link be transferred from the First Telecommunications Project
to the proposed Second Telecommunications Project. These changes in the
description of the First Telecommunications Project (Credit No. 343-BD) are
incorporated in Section 8.01 of the Development Credit Agreement for the
proposed Credit.
34.       The Cyclone Area Rehabilitation Project (originally financed under
Credit 228-PAK and reactivated as Credit 339-BD in 1973), includes a tele-
communications subproject for which US$5.6 million of IDA Credit No. 339-BD
is allocated and which includes a microwave system between Chittagong and
Cox's Bazar, very high frequency radio systems to main population centers
in the coastal areas and radio service to some public call offices in this
region. These facilities are to provide early cyclone warnings to the
inhabitants of the coastal regions of Bangladesh. They are outside BTT's
normal development program and are being undertaken by the Cyclone Reconstruc-
tion Board with technical assistance from BTT. The Government has agreed
to vest these facilities in the telecommunications agency for operation and
maintenance under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. For
this service, the Government would pay annual charges (see Section 4.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement). This arrangement is expected to result
in improved operational efficiency and coordina.ion in the use of all the
cyclone telecommunications facilities.
35.       Contracts amounting in value to about 65 percent of the total
funds provided for the supply of telecommunications equipment under the
e:isting credits (Credits No. 339-BD, 343-BD and 345-BD) have been awarded.
Given the difficulties with the coaxial cable contract referred to in paragraph
33 above, this is considered satisfactory progress. However, due to the
lend time in manufacturing telecommunications equipment, it will be about
twelve months before this progress is reflected in disbursements.



- 13-
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
36.       Last year, Bangladesh launched its First Five-Year Development
Plan (FY 1974-78) which includes BTT's first five-year telecommunications sector
development program. The program is designed essentially to meet part of
the demand for telephone connections and to relieve the mounting traffic
congestion on the network. Its total cost (including elements which are
already being financed under IDA Credits No. 343-BD and No. 345-BD) is estimated
at 1,040 1/ million Taka (US$139 million equivalent) including a foreign
exchange component of Taka 360 million (US$48 million equivalent). The
program comprises the following:
(a) ongoing telecommunications projects under IDA Credit
Nos. 343-BD and 345-BD and other bilateral credits
expected to be completed by June 1977;
(b) works, other than (a) above, to be ex:ecuted during
1973-74; and
(c) works under the proposed project to be executed between
July 1974 and June 1978.
37.       Under the program, the capacity of the local telephone network
will be increased from 65,000 lines in June 1973 to 140,000 lines in 1976 2/.
The basic long-distance services will be strengthened and extended by microwave
and UHF systems. Openwire line and carrier systems, VHF systems and 500
long-distance public call offices, will extend telecommunications services to
rural areas. Four trunk automatic exchanges which will interconnect 27 towns
into a national subscriber trunk dialling network. The telex service, now
available in two cities, will be extended to six more cities and the gentex
(automatic public telegraph) network will link large towns for speedier public
telegraph service. New international automatic telephone and telex exchanges
will enable the introduction of semi-automatic telephone and telex operations
with other countries via satellite.
The Project
38.       A report entitled "Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department -
Appraisal of the Second Telecommunications Project" (Report No. 383a-BD)
is being circulated separately. A Credit and Project Summary is provided
in Annex III.
1/   This figure excludes an estimated Taka 82.0 million worth of advance
works which, though expected to be undertaken during FY1968 are actually
part of BTT's second five-year development program.
2/   Including about 10,000 lines constructed in fiscal 1974 and 65,000
lines to be constructed under the proposed project.



- 14 -
39.       The proposed project was appraised in Bangladesh in October/
November 1973 and negotiations for the proposed IDA credit of US$20 million
equivalent were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1974. The Bangladesh Govern-
ment was represented by Messrs. L. Hossain (Secretary of Post, Telegraph
and Telephone), M. Rahman (Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance), N. A.
Choudhury (Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Planning) and A. R. Saber (Director
of Planning, BTT).
40.       The proposed project consists of the following components:
(a) installation of 65,000 lines capacity of local telephone
exchange equipment together with cable, other associated
plant and equipment, and subscriber apparatus;
(b)  6 microwave systems, UHIF and VHF systems, openwire lines
and carrier systems for a total of 1,130 circuits and 500
long-distance public call offices;
(c) 4 national trunk automatic exchanges with a total capacity
of 2,500 circuits;
(d) 1 international automatic telephone exchange with a capacity
of 150 circuits; and
(e) management and accounting improvement and training programs.
41.       One of the microwave systems will link up with another system in
India to provide a stable, high-capacity route between Bangladesh and India
to handle substantial international traffic between the two countries. The
microwave system for the Bogra-Pangpur route, earlier proposed to be equipped
with coaxial cable under Credit No. 343-BD is also included in the project.
Cost of the Project and Financing Plan
42.       The estimated cost of the project is US$87.4 million equivalent
of which US$30.0 million (34 percent) are foreign exchange costs. The
proposed IDA credit of US$20 million equivalent will therefore finance
two-thirds of the total foreign exchange costs. The US$10 million equivalent
of foreign exchange expenditure excluded from the proposed credit consists
mainly of goods for which financing is being arranged by the Government from
bilateral and other sources including import requirements for the cable factory
in 1977 and 1978, and the telephone equipment factory. (see Section 3.01(a)
of the Development Credit Agreement). Some of these goods are required later
in the program period and could be financed under the proposed credit if our
estimates of expected price increases turn out to be too high. A summary
of the sources and applications of funds for the five-year program period
(.July 1973 - June 1978) is given in Annex III. During the five-year plan
period, net internal sources of funds after covering debt service on a
commercial basis would be equivalent to 35 percent of the construction costs
and working capital increase; borrowings including the proposed IDA credit
(13 percent) and the funds to be disbursed under IDA credits 343-BD and
345-BD would cover the remaining 65 percent.



- 15 -
43.       The Government will incur all foreign exchange debt on behalf of
the telecommunications agency, and will be responsible for servicing it. The
Government will relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Telecommunications
Board, once the latter is established, with repayments to be completed over
25 years from the date of signature of this Credit, including a five year
grace period and an annual interest rate of 6-1/4 percent which is the Govern-
ment lending rate for similar Government board3 (see Section 3.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement and Part III of Schedule 4 thereto). The exchange
risk for the repayment of foreign exchange debt will be borne by the Board.
The Executing Agency
44.       The proposed project will be executed initially by the Bangladesh
Telegraph and Telephone Department and subsequently by its successor Board
with assistance from the suppliers of some of the required equipment. Before
Bangladesh became independent in 1971, there was, in East Pakistan, only a
branch office of the Pakistan Telegraph and Telephone Department headquartered
in Karachi. Therefore, East 'akistan did not maintain separate accounts and
did not have its own accounting department. Consequently, when BTT was
organized in 1971, there was a complete absence of organized accounting data.
The Government has therefore had to build up the accounting and management
functions of the Department from the beginning.
45.       Pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement for
the first telecommunications project, Bangladesh agreed to establish a
program designed to ensure that B.T.T. shall be in a position to operate its
telecommunications services effectively and on the basis of sound financial
and management principles. The Government is currently at an advanced stage
of drafting legal arrangements which will transform BTT into a Government
Board with sufficient powers and responsibilities to operate on the basis
of sound financial and management principles. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that BTT's transformation into a Government Board will be completed
by June 30, 1975 (see Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and
Schedule 4 thereto). It was further agreed that BTT will employ management
and accounting consultants, acceptable to the Association, by December 31,
1974 to assist in implementing an effective accounting system to a timetable
which is satisfactory to the Association (see Section 3.02 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and Part C2 and Exhibit A of Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement).
46.       BTT employs a staff of approximately 13,000, corresponding to 22.5
per 100 Direct Exchange Lines (DEL), after allowing for telegraph operating
staff. This is very high, even compared to other developing countries whose
figures range from 2 to 14 per 100 DELs. No immediate action to reduce
overstaffing can be expected, given the current severe unemployment problems
in Bangladesh. However, the Government has reached an understanding with
the Association that a reasonable target would be to restrict the growth of
staff to 6 percent below the rate of DEL growth, so that, although the staff
is expected to increase to 22,000 by the end of 1978, the ratio of staff
per 100 DELs would be reduced to about 17 by that time.



- 16 -
47.       There are two Telecommunications Training Centers for officers
and middle management staff of B.T.T.; there are also six Divisional Training
Centers for lower grade staff. To meet the growing demand of B.T.T. for
trained staff, some of the existing Centers are being expanded and several
new ones are being built. Discussions are being held with the UNDP for the
establishment of a telecommunication staff college whose curriculum will
include courses in finance. Government will also request from other bilateral
sources the services o-: three experts in the specific areas of stores manage-
ment, billing and collection, and commercial office procedures. These
experts, together with the accounting consultants, will assist BTT in setting
up and carrying out training programs in their specific areas of expertise.
These training programs will meet BTT's requirements during the five-year
program period.
Earnings and Tariffs
48.       There are no regulaAions in Bangladesh establishing a specific tariff
policy for telecommunications services. Changes in tariffs are formulated
within the B.T.T., reviewed and approved by the Ministries of Finance and of
Post, Telegraph and Telephone before being sent to the Cabinet for final
approval. The overall tariff structure is satisfactory though the level of
tariffs is on the high side compared with most other developing countries.
This is desirable under present conditions as it will help (to enable) the
Board to finance its expansion programs from internally generated funds. The
tariff revisions which took place in 1973 represented an increase of about
50 percent over previous levels.
49.       In proposing a tariff covenant, consideration was given to BTT's
situation as a newly formed entity undertaking a five-year expansion
program and whose estimated annual earnings performance over the next five
years is necessarily approximate. Therefore, agreement was reached that:
(a) tariffs will be maintained at a level to produce revenues
sufficient to earn an annual rate of return on the average
value of the Beneficiary's net plant in service of not less
than 8 percent during fiscal years 1976, 1977 and 1978 and,
beginning with fiscal year 1979, not less than 10 percent
(see Section 4.06(a) of the Development Credit Agreement and
Schedule 5 thereto); and
(b) during the construction period of the project, BTT will review
in March of each year the adequacy of its tariffs on the basis
of a carefully prepared forecast of the following fiscal year's
operations, taking into account the expected results of the
current year, any expected changes in the rate of inflation,
cost increases and fund requirements, and if necessary and with
approval of Government, adjust tariffs to achieve the rate of
return cited in (a) above. BTT will promptly inform the
Association of the results of the annual review and of any
tariff adjustments (see Section 4.06(b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
50.       It was also agreed during negotiations that before making a distri-
bution of BTT's profits during the period of the project, it would be demon-
strated that BTT would have available, the necessary funds each year to carry
out its capital program, adequately operate and maintain its facilities
and service its debt on a commercial basis (see Section 4.07 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
51.       The estimated amount of accounts receivable is high, amounting to
30 percent of the total revenues accruing to BTT. About half of these
delinquencies are more than three months old. This situation is due to
delays in billing and lack of action against slow payers which result from
absence of adequate records for older arrears and unsettled condition in
Bangladesh. The Government is applying to bilateral donors for an expert to
assist the telecommunications agency in reviewing the existing billing and
collection procedures in order to recommend and help implement improvements.
The performance of the telecommunications agency in the billing and the
collection of its charges will be kept under close review during supervision
of the project.
Past Operations and Present and Future Financial Position
52.       In the absence of accounts, historical financial data for B.T.T.
were established by ascertaining B.T.T.'s 1973 revenue position, estimating
operating expenses from data obtained from various sources and using reason-
able assumptions. Estimates of plant values zre based on the known age,
type and observed condition of a representative cross-section. These
estimates are considered to be sufficiently reliable to form a basis for
analyzing B.T.T.'s operations. Estimated operating results for 1973, the
only full fiscal year of B.T.T. operations, show an operating loss of
Taka 7.6 million before notional interest payments (no interest payments were
actually made) of Taka 3.8 million and after notional depreciation charges
of Taka 30.8 million. Forecasts show that BTT emerges from this loss position
to a positive earnings position in fiscal year 1974 when a substantial tariff
increase became effective.
Future Finances
53.       The rate of return on average net plant in service is estimated at
5 percent in 1974 rising to about 12 percent by 1980. The operating ratio,
estimated at 83 percent in 1974, declines to 63 percent in 1980. These
estimated operating results are satisfactory. The forecast financial
position is also satisfactory. During the seven-year period 1974-1980,
when some 60 percent of the telecommunications agency's capital requirements
would be financed with long-term debt, equity would increase by almost
Taka 450 million (US$60 million equivalent) mainly from retained earnings.
This combination results in a debt/equity ratio in 1980 of the order of 54/46,
after assumed future borrowings, which would leave the Board in a position
to borrow further amounts to carry out its future expansion programs. The
Board's ratio of current assets to current liabilities would be satisfactory
as would the coverage of its debt service by internal cash generation, which
ratio ranges from a high of 4.6 times in 1974 to a low of 2.7 in 1980.



- 18
Debt Limitation Covenant
54.       The appraisal report's projections are based on the assumption that
all borrowings by and on behalf of the Board will be the Board's debt; on this
basis, forecasts show that debt service will be adequately covered by net
revenues (before charging depreciation). Nevertheless, it was agreed during
negotiations that the Board will not incur anv debt, other than through
disbursements under the proposed credit and other existing foreign credits
unless the historic 12 monthis' net revenues (before charging depreciation)
would cover maximum future debt service at least 1.5 times. (see Section 4.05
of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
55.       All the facilities financed with the proposed credit will be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group's guidelines for procurement with the exception of local sub-
scriber distribution and interexchange junction cables. These cables
estimated to cost US$7.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$3.26 million, will be procured from the local government-owned cable
factory (Bangladesh Cable Shilpa Ltd.) to enhance the telecommunications
agency's operational efficiency by reducing inventories and lead time for
procurement of materials and execution of works. The prices quoted by the
local factory are in line with international prices.
Disbursement
56.       For equipment imported directly by BTT, the credit would be dis-
bursed against the c.i.f. costs. If trunk switching equipment or subscriber
apparatus is supplied from the local switching factory as a result of
international competitive bidding, the credit would be disbursed against
the equivalent of the ex-factory cost. For cables supplied directly from
the local cable factory, the credit will be disbursed against the estimated
foreign exchange content (about 45 percent of the selling price to BTT in-
cluding excise duty and sales tax but excluding transportation charges). In
case a local firm is appointed as consultants, the credit would be disbursed
against 70 percent of the consultant's fees. For a foreign consulting firm,
the credit would be disbursed against their foreign costs. If a firm with a
joint venture arrangement is selected, the credit would be disbursed against
the foreign exchange costs of the foreign partner (about 70 percent of total)
plus the equivalent costs (70 percent of total) of the local partner.
Justification of the Project
57.       The existin g telecommunication facilities in Bangladesh are
inadequate in quantity and unsatisfactory in quality. BTT's five-year
program is designed to improve their quality and provide minimum, basic
telecommtuniications required for economic development and general adminis-
trationi of thc country.  At the end of the program, the total telecommuni-
cation needs of the country would not have been met but maximum relief
would have been provided within the.constraints of available finance,



- 19 -
physical capacity and trained manpower availability. The program is designed
to give a balanced growth while providing for an improved quality of service.
58.       The development of telecommunications is very important to the
development of agriculture, industry and government through making possible
the speedy dissemination of information required for timely decision making.
The external benefits generated by improved telecommunications services for
the economy of Bangladesh include (a) making storage and distribution of
food and essential supplies (including fertilizer and oil needed for irriga-
tion pumps) more efficient; (b) facilitating the establishment of additional
secondary industrial centers; (c) improved information to facilitate
procurement of jute for export, and (d) an increase in the efficiency of
public agencies through better management information and improved coordina-
tion.
59.       The financial rate of return on the proposed project, defined as
the discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected financial revenue
attributable to the project with the capital and operating costs excluding
taxes, is 21 percent. A sensitivity analysis made on the project's rate
of return shows that under an unfavorable combination of the main parameters,
trie rate of return would be at least l6 percent.
60.       The economic rate of return on the project is undoubtedly higher
than the financial rate described above since the prices charged for the
telecommunications services do not adequately measure the full benefits of
the services to the subscribers themselves. Moreover the costs included
the full cost of extending the existing network to new areas though the
full benefits for some of these extensions will be obtained only in the
future as additional lines are connected in those areas.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement
does not contain any special features other than those mentioned elsewhere
in this Report.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



BANGLADESH
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA                                    Page 1 of 3 pages
AREA                                                    POPULATION                                      DENSITY
141,131 km l                                                75 Talion (mid-197)                                 530 Per IO,l
840 Per lamZof arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countbries
indonaesia   Jaan           Iran
1960          1970               1970            970          1970
GNP' PER CAPTTA 15S$ (ATLAS BASIS) /I                                                 701                80            192038
DEMOGRAPHIC4819                                                                                                                     457
Cr-udebri-rth r&te (per thousand)                                    5L7           48                   81.                        54
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                       27           19               --19             6.           15-17
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                     1~67         10127S'                           1 3.1      100-140
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                      46           4748                             71.0         49-53
Gross reproduction rate /L2                                          3.6          3.2                 3.2             1.0          3.6
Population grcwth rate 132.8                                                      3.         .0                       1.0          3.1
Population growth rate - urban                                       _________4.5                                     3.2          5.0-.
Age structure (percent)                                                            4744                              24.0          47
O-J.J,                                           ~~~~~                   ~        ~~~~~~~~~              ~   ~~~~~~~48  51  54  69,1  4~
15-6L                                                               3            39246.
65 and over                                                                                         0.3052.
Denendency ratio                                                     1.10 1.0                                                        hI.
Urban population as percent of total                         ~7175                                                                 662 1~
Family plannin;,:   No of acceptors cumulative (thous.)                                               17                           662c
No. of users (% of married women)                                                                              51
EMPLOYMENT                                                                                                                         84E
Total la-bor force (thousands)                                       18.300       24.900              410           52150        8481
Percentage eiqployed in agriculture                                 7_5           7 5                 63           20.6          4
Percentage uniemployed                                             _________2                                       i.2          3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                   c5/'
Percent of nat wn-ai income received by highest 5                                                                     4.           56
Percent of nat~.onal income received by highest 20%47                                                                                s
Percent of nat.onal income received by lowest 20%                                                                     I.
Percent of nat,,.onal income received by lowest 4,0%
DISTRIBUTION OF '.AND OkCWERSHI?                                           .d                                                 _____
% owned by to-p 10% of owners                                                      34________
% owned by smal,lest 10% of owners__________
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per- -pysici an                                               400g .    0  002                 000        8980..l0.
PoPulation per nursing person                                        164 00'107,60r/                   -5. 740       300           20
Population per hospital bed                                           11.200      9.430                 1200          79.0          840
Per capita cal'rne supply as % of requirements /554.i'                                                  7&/          104.3          105
Per capita protein supply, total (grams Per day~L6                                 I0   /               30!'1         75.1           61
Of which, an:-mal and pulse                                       __________                          3'            47.3
Death rate I-1, years /73'1.
EDUCATION
A-is-e  /8 pr:-mary school enrollment ratio                         441           57                   77           98.0        566"/
Adjusted 79 secondary school enrollment ratio                                                            IIBbO                    2a1
Years of schooing provided, first and second level                                        ~
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollment                  ..198                                                          C
Adult literacy rate %                                                  23                                56                        3-t
HOUSING                                                                              !1t                                             2V
Average No. of persona per room (urban)                                           38_/11                                            .21
Percent of occupied units withoyut piped water                                    811'                                5.1
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                                                                                   2 .1
Percent of 'ural population connected to electricity                                                                    .4.
CONSUMPTION                                                                                                                            a
*1-ado riceivers per 1000 population                                   __________114                                    255.0        93-/
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                   __________2                                       84.8 ----10
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                                  3            11                  182720                    2~ tt
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                                 .'0.2                                           19.1         0.4
Notes:   Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                  account of environmental temperature, body weights, and
the latest years.    Latest periods refer in principle to                 distribution by age and sex of national populations.
the years 1956.60 or 1966-70; the latest years in pri-n-              /6  Protein standards (requirements) for alli countries as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 2970.    Onliy significantly different                  lished by USDA3 Economic Reaearch Service provide for a minimum
periods or years are footnoted separately.                                 allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
/1   The Per Capita aNP estimates for years other than 1960               animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
is at market pr-ices, calculated by the same conversion               protein.   These standard.s are somewhat lower than those of 75
technique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                               grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
12  Average number of daughters per woman or reproductive                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
age.                                                                  Survey.
/3   Population grcywth rates are lbr the decades ending in           /7  Bone studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
- 1960 and 1970.                                                        ages 1 through 4, may be used as a first approximation i-ndex of
/4Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to                     malnutrition.
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64,.             /8   Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
Zk FAO reference standards represent physiological re-                  as defined for each country.
quirements for normal activity and health, taking
a!  1962;   b/   ,ere 5600D inhabitants; c/   1971;   S!/  1967-68;  e/  Nurses only, excludes other paramedics;
fl Percent of noPitlation receiving adequate protein/calories in 1962/64; g/ 1964-66; h/ 1-5
i/Up to endi of1' lwer secondary; I/    1965;  k/  1966;   I/  Urban only, 1968;    !B/ 1969



E OOI D  IPW    DATaIge 2 of 3 Pages
(Amounts o  millions of U.S.dollars
Foetmat,o for SG-:t Palkistan        Baogladoshk5
Actual,             Pro o~~~~~~~-Jctlu-s  1960-  1965 -  197~   19    - - g  1970 97    1973
126t    j1ff     1971      197197           175      1961    1970    1978     19               -- 
NATIONAL Af0050125                                                 ____191. 
G-s-1 D--d7-ea Aerae t-937 169od--t$                                            cesg AAnoual Grosts totes      As Poecmst of GDY
Gross fbosTec Prdof              ,0      .5       -I                                  .       .      1.5                =
Gatos from ∂eroo of frodo (.1  35~'~~  -os          -77      -93    -27      L..6   2.6     -9.7              -I.1.6   0.2   .1.2
eoe(iosl. NFl)               6412     509c               65      7021    717    2o.6    -1.7      2.7
13O~~t   (Import capacumi ty)         -                 4.9     t$7      F        ' i.  7.7      7.0
esr.,Gap                                                 0373&          '6                                        -              -
CfLonsopt ion  rpoendil see     01:7       I,~;6                           6 F'        7     2.2      1.7
-ecs-to       (iocL. stocks)            71, 07                     7')1     802   1I       6.0      1;. 3
Nstisoal S-vlogs                 s5~       2                     ~-7                        51.2
MED7HAN5ISE TRA-DE                     RAs-a  D.at at Crroo.t Pr1c-A Porceo                                                     of Total
d rsu-es
hui,n h:ools    -                     L                  0        7(9     ,9                                      1.7.      -    1.3
lot cr00115 e cc ods ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-L fools) ~ ~ ~ ~7                                            1.O.       37.82
C-.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1P14!q 
-  .. ~~~~~ .o (~~~~5f)  ~ ~  -5137. 4                  -7                                17.6              77bo
T-roce _M__d_---T57n
--Potasr  prodss - so.fos
.so .t ts1:  Pneto.m          O.~ .     -I;      - 7                -9   17-L'1-
1 -  .1 rc  d-          I          001            ~-                  ,01           .20.
.-. .-          ('d01)      ..    11-                 17s      27Iq 0'k                         i76T27                 --     rr
1..-z-  yds Trsdo Misim cOs11                      ~        112      N       -_               .
fusr,ie OPeSos87dcA                                                                        -1.1
Inport Prie  ack9 r                    ,l 6t4647 ,50               1.9     7.2 05'R5.7Iol 
todost ecy a  ists, -           y        8'..1. 
Coroth  Reslp~Sto              018      .                            797                                              1.9
Roll- Sectsriic ln oc-t       47 20                                                                                  6.o      6.o'     5.
flfBSflf 02X515D1711. D :TAILS            Actual.     Proll.    Enst.  Pr-J.       DETAIL ON                          At ond 197T2 P sod EB
An, 71 Total Osreos sepod.)          5-9    19        197/73   97,o 19           P11BLIC SECTOR                  Pira  Sloe     o Total
fd-osi.o                                               20.0    19.83             TN'ESTMIENT PROGRAM1            (197 74 flh 7- 577t/;)
Plor" fS'.iat Ioic 56.73                                        E 5.2            Socil  Eoctur'sL                    Bo3         si.m
Agreioltsr-                                             2.6f    2i.              Agrieultu-                        i.8o          2.-1
Glkh- to-oicSrio                                         . 6    5. 2             lodsery ant ldistg               I1.585         20.7
,,Ooihteitnto, o   lefesso                             <0.9    61.o              Power                               F761        10.7
(L~~~~~~r                                 3~~~.6L (, 6.0( /2       Transort~ s-d csos-i-ttisns         .750        i6.;
Os-l C-rr-t 2opoiletres5 ms--1Othe                                                                                   -5
_______________  ________________________________________________________  Totat Eopoci!lnureTotasE p-02t-21  100.000.
Vfi2fC7Et 21501 0rTIAT,E965-                           5966-    1970-  19713       FEttAL$f5N
(focu1Iated fro  7-yos- soceged data)         1965     1970     1975   5978
Av-,,,00                                       ..        ul'                         Polite 2.oteSr  - O scig        2,117         49.7
I.o$prt IlootlioSy                            ..        1.27.           7.9          Prog-o aid osoonepart           1.076        2h 
1rDl-go.l D-mooti ISv ingo Race               2. ..               .        1         Po-etga Projot At!id0                        27.0
Msgsa  otooci1 Soo ns, Raso               .          .1      .Toal                       iso9m(oooluo!Gog        L,5         100.0
acolser as! tbe honk tog systeo,
1.IIGD FORCE AITO                          Toostaloeb. torso                           Value Added Per Worker p1967 -69 Prices& Ele. Rates)
5:171017 255 1<51012  to PolIte-es       9 Lof -Total      561h-777O1Eu               r      Pecceno.t  A-eesge      19   -
1580/7.1  19L72/7 12580/6   1972/7  Growth at ,7                 _/9      19        1977     Growls Bate
Agric.lt-re                   16.1       20.5   15.1      71.2      2.0                      155                 72
Industry                       LO0        1.!    5.2       6.s      1.0                      4o.100i8
ic-ectse                       1.9             --25_7                              ..       il/        ---
Totol                         169         n1    f0.0     500.1      2.8           259 .1     217.1             I122
no.t                 'nilbl  51o  egtil
soet scoahieabl       less tlhan half the
snall,st unitshw
.0  tao  or to 13 9,' 0 pertaI tco erstwhIle .10t Pakistas.  'Imt for 1973771 onwrds ore tnotatEie projeotloas based son a ModiftCatison
of snoi of Ike Res-t Flo-yea, Plan assosptionso sod fssthee assuchg  as addittosal foreign aid csmlbmnts Of $150 oillion pex year3
Onef are to coos, ant 1922,'73 prios sod xoch.oge rates.  The two serties are therefore sot -oparable.
-  eslodos jute ma- fatores sot other ep-rts.
lW5 i74,; sowords ore nnosal data, to 1972/73 prioes; lod-stry sooIsd-somtss satd utilities for whIh so sepeeste estimates were mate.
/1   Dolt aereice.
/5~ DeAt serchoos ass. contigency.
/6   OCclu_de.s oldoti-,.health sod welfare
LI Those are -rsgilnsl no   targets, witch ar oct of roast is the present cir-n.taocee.
i n 5972/73 prIcer sod onchonge rate.
tote: All figures ark on fiscal year hasio July I - J-s  5



5                  ei;  .  g t ,, ; + 2 t a a d      .3   .
|~~~ ;a I
032         rm. 1011 
' lI (c   soI 
..~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .0 a~03
T1 UV   P f  1  '-'  r  2 2 b3 |o         03:
|~~~~~~~~             ap c 1|3,n3=^ 
%2$ ∞ <   ; ∞-L  4 '0o s: ; Wo  ~ n  S 
´j ∞       B B     4     e        G 1 2 E '..∞  n
=                     =lo n  e  o o < > 2 b k n | L L N H r   .3   3 0k|g



ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1974
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                        US$ Million
Number   Year               Purpose                       Amount    Undisbursed
339      1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PIK of 1971) 25.0        24.5
340      1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                13.0        11.7
341      1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0        12.8
343      1971     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)          7.3        5.1
345      1972     Reconstruction Imports                    50.0       19.4
353      1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)             3.0        2.1
367      1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)              7.0        3.3
368      1973     Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)             13.2        5.9
S-14     1973     IRRIGATION Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)     '                 3.15       0.4
381      1973     Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                    19.7         1.0
407      1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)           21.0        13.2
408      1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                               25.0        20.9
409      1973     Technical Assistance                       4.0        3.9
410      1973      Cereal Seeds                              7.5        7.5
424      1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation     4.1        4.1
458      1974      Imports Program                          50.0       49.6
Total                  266.95     185.4



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Bank Loan and IDA Credits to Pakistan for Projects Wholly in
the Territorv of Bangladesh (excluding credits being replaced by
credits to Bangladesh shown in A above /a)
Credit                                                  IJS$ Million
Number   Year              Purpose               Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank            IDA
11     1961     Dacca Irrigation                                   1.0
16     1961     Inland Ports                                       2.0
321     1962     Railways                           4.7
39     1963     Brahmaputra Flood Control                          5.0
40     1963     Chandpur Irrigation I                              5.3
56     1964     Eastern Railway                                   10.0
65     1965     Inland Water Transport                             5.2
136     1969     Technical Assistance (EPWAPDA)                     2.0
4.7           30.5
Of which has been repaid           1.8            0.1
Total outstanding /b        2.9           30.4
/a   In addition to the loan and credits listed in Parts A and B of this
Annex there were further lending operations to Pakistan for purposes
which benefitted both Pakistan and Bangladesh.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. Implementation of the
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced
prior to the suspension of disbursements. Earthwork has been completed for
fifty-four miles of primary roads, and 60 cyclone shelters are under construc-
tion. However, progress has been slow due to the severe shortages of
construction materials in Bangladesh. For the other subprojects (inland
water transport, telecommunications, feeder roads, coastal fisheries and
cvclone warning) progress has been mainly limited to the preparation and
floating of tenders and ordering of equipment and materials.   Project comple-
tion is expected to be about two years behind the schedule anticipated at
appraisal. The Government is preparing a proposal for submission to the
Association for coping with the sharp increase in construction costs since
the Project was appraised, which may necessitate reduction in the scope of
the project.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project; US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. When work on the project,
previously financed under Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970, was suspended in 1971,
the major project civil works were about half completed. The contractor
manufacturing equipment for the regulators lad also made substantial progress.
Interim financing by Sweden provided for rezppointment of project consultants,
resumption of construction and renegotiation of the contract for manufacture
and installation of the equipment for the regulators. Manufacture of this
equipment is almost complete and re-testing is in progress. Civil works
construction has recommenced but is lagging at least a full year behind the
schedule anticipated at reappraisal, mainly due to initial delays in Credit
effectiveness and to a shortage of cement during the 1973/74 construction
season. The Government has established a Central Review Committee under the
Planning Commission to accelerate project implementation. Increases in pro-
ject costs may require a reallocation of Credit proceeds. Claims for
reimbursements from IDA are lagging behind expenditures.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972,
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received
in 1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The present
Credit, again in conjunction with a US$6 million Credit from Sweden and a
US$6 million grant from Canada, became effective on January 17, 1973. Well
construction on this project began during January, 1974: In April, IDA
approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and engines. Due
to initial delays, present imnlementation is about one year behind schedule,
and new dates have been proposied for the completion of the activities on
which original deadlines have passed. Increases in project costs may require
a reallocation of credit proceeds. In January 1974, the Government and the
engineering consultants signed a revised contract providing for the additional
engineering and agriculture consulting services needed for the project. In
February, the agricultural consultants (who were under sub-contract to the
engineering consultants) withdrew from the project, stating that the salary
scales in the revised contract signed by the engineering consultants were
inadequate to attract staff of the calibre required for the project. The
Consultants also noted the lack of progress by the Government in making
necessary preparations for implementation of the agricultural development
component of the project. While progress on implementation of the agricul-
tural component has meanwhile improved, the Government has remained unwilling
to pay the agricultural consultants more than had been agreed in the contract
with the engineering consultants. The engineering consultants are making
new arrangements to provide the required agricultural consulting services.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project; US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was origi-
nally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and services



ANNEX II
Page 4
valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to suspension of
disbursements. Orders have been placed for the remaining equipment required
Luder the project except for two coaxial cable systems. Due to revaluation
of the Japanese Yen and the devaluation of the United States dollar, the credit
amount is no longer enough to finarce all the import requirements of the
project as originally expected. Consequently, it is proposed (see para 42)
that (a) the Kushtia-Natore-Rajshahi section and the Bogra-Rangpur section
be equipped with microwave systems instead of coaxial cables now provided for
and (b) financing of the Bogra-Rangpur system be transferred to the proposed
second Telecommunications project.
Cr. No. 345    Reconstruction Imports Project; US$50.0 Million Credit of
November 30, 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1974
Credit became effective January 30, 1973. As of April 30, 1974
Letters of Credit guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$12.0 million
and disbursements were US$32.5 million. Due to initial delays, only a small
portion of the goods to be imported under the Credit have been utilized so
far. Accordingly, the Credit had no impact on production in 1972/73, although
it will contribute substantially to production in 1973/74. The Government
has fully committed the proceeds of the Credit, but due mainly to delays
in finalizing contracts with suppliers and arranging shipping for the imported
goods, the Credit is not expected to be fully disbursed by August 31, 1974.
The Government is expected to request an extension of the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit
of January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. The Credit has financed notional
repayment of amounts previously disbursed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$187,000)
and payment of outstanding amounts for consulting services performed under
Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000). Disbursements for new activities up to
April 30, 1974 amounted to about $750,000 and total loan commitments exceeded
US$1.75 million. Projects pipeline requirements will exceed available foreign
exchange resources during FY1975 and a second credit operation is therefore
planned. More emphasis will be needed on speed of implementation of projects.
A UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project is expected to help BSIC reorgani-
zation during FY1975.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disburse-
ments were suspended, US$3.3 million had been disbursed. Execution of the
project has been plagued by many problems including shortage of materials
like cement and steel and defaults by some of the contractors retained under
the project. These problems are being slowly resolved and the project is
now 65 percent completed. The performance of the Authority in billings and
collection remains poor. The Association is working with the Government and
the Authority to improve this situation.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disburse-
ments were suspended, TJS$6.0 million had been disbursed. Execution of the
project has been plagued by many problems including shortage of materials
like cement and steel and defaults by some of the contractors retained under
the project. These problems are being slowly resolved and the water supply
portion of the project is now about 80 percent completed while the sewerage
portion is about 50 percent completed. The petformance of the Authority in
billings and collection remains poor. The Association is working with the
Government and the Authority to improve this situation.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; IUS$19.7 Million Credit
of May 18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Credit became effective July 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed by a US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million
Kroner credit from the Kingdom of Sweden. The Kingdom of Sweden is again
providing a 25 million Kronor Credit. The project is almost completed and
95 percent of the new IDA and Swedish credits will go towards repaying the
previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25 million from IDA and about
US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) will be used to pay outstanding bills
for work completed prior to the war, comnpletion of some supporting facilities
for the grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment damaged
during the war, and a feasibility study for a second grain storage project.
Contracts have been signed in March 1974 for design work to strengthen the
existing jetty serving the Chittagong silo. The designs are expected shortly
and will be followed by invitations to tender for the construction. The
contract for the feasibility study was signed in April 1974.   The study is
expected to be completed towards the end of the year.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973:
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. The project was
originally financed by two IDA credits, Credits Nos. 49-PAM and 87-PAM.
By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, IUS$7.7 million had
been disbursed out of ITS$17.5 million, the aggregate total of the two former
credits. The credit adds US$3.5 million to the total of the original credits,
in order to help the government meet part of the increase in total project
cost. Progress on the agricultural university portion of the project has
been delayed due to difficulties in reaching agreement with the consultant
architects on a revised contract. These difficulties appear to have been
finally resolved. Construction is also being delayed due to shortage of
building material.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. -lo. 408   Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit Agreement became effective on September 27, 1973. The
project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By December 1971,
when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out
of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit adds US$2.5 million
to the original credit amount, in order to help the Government meet part of
the increase in total project cost as a result of currency realignments.
Four construction contracts were signed in September 1973 for the Sitalakhya
Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong road worth about US$9.2
million. A fifth contract with consultants for construction supervision
was signed in February 1974 but they were in the field earlier. The progress
of the project is slow but it is improving and the outlook, generallv, is
satisfactory. The major problems are shortage of essential supplies, like
cement and steel, and rising prices. The Government is making its best efforts
to make materials available for the execution of the project and, at least
for the present construction season, no disruption of the work is anticipated.
A cost overrun is likely as prices continue to rise. A tentative estimate
of the total project cost is about IUS$31.5 million compared to US$26.7
million at the time of appraisal, representing an increase of about 20 percent.
The situation is being kept under review and the next supervision mission,
tentatively scheduled for November/December 1974 will firm up the project
cost estimates; at that time, arrangements for covering the cost overrun
will be discussed with the Government.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; UTS$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective August 20, 1973. Consultants contracts
have been signed for an inland watet transport study, technical advisory
services for preparation of a proposed fertilizer project, and a study of
areas suitable for rainfed HYV rice. Work is under way for completing
arrangements with consultants for a study of future requirements of the
Dacca Water and Sewerage Authority, and for preparation of a fisheries project.
Discussions are under way concerning several other subpro-ject proposals.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 30, 1974. A contract for consultants
services has been signed and the consultants (specialists in seed production,
seed legislation and certification, and farm machinery) commenced their duties
in Bangladesh March 1974. Bids for the major items to be purchased (farm
equipment and processing plants) are expected to be received bv October 1974.



ANNEX II
Page   7
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; IUS$4.1 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. Detailed investigations
have indicated that the damage to the Chittagong offshore oil terminal was
more severe than previously believed. Consultants appointed late in 1973 to
study several alternative technical solutions submitted their findings and
recommendations to the Government in late January. The Government has
requested the Association's agreement to a modification of the project descrip-
tion to enable the implementation of a proposed alternative solution which
will require more foreign exchange than has been provided in the Credit. This
is presently under review. The Association has cleared, after some modifica-
tions, the lists of spare parts, tools and equipment submitted by the Bangladesh
Inland Water Transport Authority and Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corpora-
tion, Chittagong Port Trust and Bangladesh Engineering and Shipping Corpora-
tion for financing under the Credit. The lists submitted may have to be
reduced to remain within the credit allocations.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Credit became effective February 13, 1974. The Government has
allocated the proceeds of the Credit among the various eligible industries.
Licenses have been issued for about US$30.0 million and it is expected that
the remaining ITS$20.0 million worth of licenses will have been issued by
July 31, 1974. As of April 30, 1974, Letters of Credit guaranteed by TDA
have been opened for IJS$16.4 million and disbursements amounted to USS0.4
million.
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineering Project; US$3.15 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 8, 1973. When IDA suspended
disbursements under the original credits to Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-A
and S-10) in December 1971, the Dacca Southwest feasibility studies was
completed and the Karnafuli-?1uhuri studies was about three quarters completed.
Interim financing from Sweden allowed the work to continue. The feasibilitv
studies for the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects are now substantially completed
and draft reports have been submitted to the Government. Studies of the
Comilla-Noakhali project (Dakatia Unit) are nearing completion and a preliminary
draft report has been submitted to the Government.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH - SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PPOJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIUMARY
BORROWER:                      People's Pepublic of Bangladesh
BENEFICIARY:                   Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department,
which is to be converted into a telecommunications
Board.
AMOUNIT:                       TJS$20.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                         Standard.  The proceeds of the rredit will be
relent to the Bangladesh Telegraph and Tele-
phone Board (when formed) at 6 1/47 with repay-
ments over twentv-five years (from the date
this Credit is signed) including five years
of grace.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:           The project consists of:   (a) addition of 65,000
lines capacity to the local telephone network
for connecting 57,350 direct exchange lines:
(b) 6 microwave systems, IHF and VHF systems,
openwire lines and carrier systems for a total
of 1,130 circuits and 500 long-distance public
call offices; (c) 4 trunk automatic exchanges
with a total capacity of 2,500 circuits; (d)
1 international automatic telephone exchange
with a capacity of 150 circuits: and (e) con-
sultancy services for management and accounting
improvement and training programs.
ESTIMATED COST:                The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$87.4 million equivalent with a foreign ex-
change component of JS$30.0 million or 34 per-
cent. Details are as follows:



ANNEX III
Page   2
PROJECT COSTS
IDA
US$ Million          Financing
Local  Foreign  Total   ITS$ Million
Local Network                      22.28   8.58   30.86        3.64
(Main Exchange Equipment,
Box Exchanges, Local
Cables and Subscribers
Apparatus)
Long-distance
Transmission Equipment            2.82   6.03     8.85       5.06
(Microwave, UHF, VHF
and Openwire line and
carrier)
Trunk Exchange
Equipment                         0.20    2.21    2.41       2.21
(National and
International)
Other Facilities                    6.44   5.26    11.70       2.80
(Power Plant, Air-conditioning
Equipment, Vehicles, Land and
Buildings)
Miscellaneous                       13.24   1.97   15.21       0.30
(Training, Consultancy,
Duties and Taxes)
Contingencies                      12.36   5.99    18.35       5.99
(Physical and
Price)
TOTAL                         57.34  30.03   87.38       20.00



ANNEX III
Page 3
FINANCING PLAN:                    The financing plan of the five year program
will be in accordance with the following
source and application of funds:
Tk Million      ITS$ Million     %
Requirements
Four-year Project (FY1975-1978)           655.4            87.4        56
Other construction (including
assumed future works in 1978
amounting to TK 82.0 million)          466.6            62.2        40
Total development program            1,122.0           149.6        96
Working capital increase                   44.7             6.0          4
Total Requirements                   1,166.7           155.6        1n0
Sources
Internal cash generation                  590.4            7R.7         51
Less:  Debt service                      (194.7)          (26.0)       (17)
395.7            52.7         34
Security deposits                          15.1             2.0          1
Borrowings:
Bilateral credits/grants                 168.3            22.5         14
IDA Credits 343-BD and 345-BD             42.1             5.6          4
Government loans                         360.5            48.1        31
Proposed IDA credit                      150.0            20.0         13
Future borrowings                         35.0             4.7          3
Total borrowings                       755.-           100.9         65
Total sources                        1,166.7           155.6        100
1`STI1ATFD DISBURSEDENTS:
Fiscal Years        USS '000
1975               2.2
1976               S.9
1977               5.4
1978               3.5
2n.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:          All goods financed by the proposed IDA
credit will be procured by international
competitive bidding with the exception
of subscriber distribution and inter-
exchange junction cables. These cables,
with a foreign exchange cost US$3.26
million equivalent will be procured from
the local factory.
RATE OF RETURN:                    21 percent (financial rate of return)
APPRAISAL REPORT:                  Report No. 383a dated      , 1974
Public Utilities Projects Department
Central Projects staff



