CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 487 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 487 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1974, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "BTT" means the Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Department
of the Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephone of the Borrower;
(b)   "Board" means an instrumentality of the Borrower to be established
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   "Beneficiary" means BTT or the Board, as the case may be;
(d)   "1972 Development Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Telecommunications Project) No. 343 BD between the Borrower and
the Association, dated November 15, 1972; and
(e)   "Fiscal year" means the twelve-month period ending on June 30 of
the calendar year in question.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Development Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1984, and ending June 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the
Beneficiary with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to the Board, upon its establishment, the
proceeds of the Credit under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Board under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association (hereinafter called the Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower ..hall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable the Board to perform all
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Beneficiary in carrying out Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Beneficiary to employ, not later than
December 3 1, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, management and accounting consultants acceptable to the
Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower or
the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish, not later than June 30, 1975,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
and thereafter maintain, a Board to be responsible for the operation, maintenance
and development of public telecommunication services within its territories, with
such powers, responsibilities, management, capital structure and financial policies
as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Development Credit Agreement or as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   Upon establishment of the Board, the Borrower shall cause the Board
to:
(i)         maintain its existence and its right to carry on its operations;
(ii)        acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business;


﻿7
(iii)       operate and maintain, at all times, its facilities and property,
and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and business
practices;
(iv)        at all times, manage its affairs, plan its future investment and
maintain its financial position, all in accordance with sound
business and financial principles and practices; and
(v)         be managed, at all times, by qualified, experienced and
competent management.
(c)   Without derogating from its obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Board to carry out such obligations of
the Borrower thereunder as shall fall within the responsibilities of the Board with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial
and engineering practices.
(d)   The provisions of this Section shall supersede the provisions of Section
4.01 of the 1972 Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, upon completion of Part B of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Coastal Area
Rehabilitation and Cyclone Protection Project) No. 339 BD between the Borrower
and the Association, dated October 18, 1972, vest in the Beneficiary the physical
assets created by the carrying out of such Part B, under terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and the Beneficiary, providing for
the operation and maintenance of such assets by the Beneficiary and for payments
by the Borrower to the Beneficiary in compensation for such operation and
maintenance.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take, and shall cause BTT to take, all
necessary action to staff BTT with qualified accounting and financial personnel
in a number which shall be adequate to handle the accounting and financial
operations of the Board upon its establishment.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Beneficiary to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary.
(b)   Beginning with the fiscal year ending on June 30, 1976, the Borrower
shall cause the Board to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance


﻿8
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors satisfactory to the Association- (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its fmancial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Board and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not permit the Board to incur or assume any debt (other
than debt described in paragraph 111.1 of Schedule 4 to this Development Credit
Agreement), unless the Board's net revenue from its operations for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or assumption or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence or assumption. whichever revenue is the greater,
shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt scr ice requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt incurred or assumed uy the Board, including the debt
described in paragraph 111.1 of Schedule 4 to this Development Credit Agreement
and the debt to be incurred or assumed.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred or assumed.
(ii)        The term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred or assumed on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or guarantee
agreement providing for such debt or for the refinancing of such
debt or on the date of assumption by the Board pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Development Credit
Agreement.
(iii)       "Net revenue from its operations" means gross revenue of the
Board from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Board's
tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence or assumption of debt
even though such tariffs were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less all
operating, maintenance and overhead expenses, and provision for


﻿9
taxes, if any, but before provision for depreciation and interest
and other charges on debt, including the debt to be incurred
or assumed.
(iv)         "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest
and other charges on debt, including the debt to be incurred
or assumed.
(v)         Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Board for the purpose of servicing such debt.
(c)   The provisions of this Section shall supersede the provisions of Secton
3.13 of the 1972 Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall from time to time take all action necessary on its part to cause
the Beneficiary to set and ma,ntain tariffs for its telecommunications services at
such levels as shall be necessary to produce, beginning with fiscal year 1979, an
annual rate of return of not less than 10% on the average value of the Beneficiary's
net fixed assets in operation, calculated in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that such
annual rate of return may be less than 10% but not less than 8%        during the
Beneficiary's fiscal years of 1976, 1977 and 1978.
(b)   Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, but without
limiting the generality thereof, the Borrower shall, in March of each year and until
the Project is completed, cause the Beneficiary to review, and, with the approval
of the Borrower, adjust if necessary, such tariffs for the purpose of achieving the
rates of return referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, after taking into account
the forecast of the following fiscal year's operations, the expected result of the
current fiscai year's operations, expected changes in the rate of inflation, cost
increases and financial requirements.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform     the Association of the results
of the review and adjustment, if any, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.


﻿10
(d)   The provisions of this Section shall supersede the provisions of Sections
3.05 and 3.06 of the 1972 Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, until the Project is completed, cause or
permit the Board to pay dividends or to make any other distributions out of the
Board's operating or other profits only if the Board's audited accounts and financial
statements for the next preceding fiscal year show that after such payment or
distribution (and taking into account current and forecast revenues and funds
required for operating and maintaining the Board's facilities and for servicing the
Board's debt), the Board will have, during the fiscal year next succeeding such
payment or distribution, the funds required to carry out the Project. The Borrower
shall cause the Board to inform the Association of any decision to make such
payment or distribution.
Section 4.08. Prior to the establishment of the Board, the Borrower shall
cause BTT to:
(a)   at all times conduct its operations, including its financial operations,
in accordance with sound management and financial practices and under the
supervision of competent and experienced management; and
(b)   operate and maintain, at all times, its facilities and property, and from
time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, administrative and financial practices.
Section 4.09. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
neither cause nor permit the Board to:
(i)         sell, or otherwise dispose of, all or substantially all of its property
or assets created out of amounts lent by the Association to the
Borrower, unless the Board shall first redeem and pay or make
adequate provision, satisfactory to the Association, for the
redemption and payment of all of the Board's debt towards the
Borrower arising out of amounts lent by the Association to the
Borrower which shall be outstanding and unpaid; or
(ii)        create, or permit to be created, any lien on the property or
assets or revenues of the Board, as security for any debt, with
the exception of (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property, and (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after its date.
S


﻿11
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall, until the establishment of the Board,
submit to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the annual budgets
of BTT.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or interest
or any other payment required under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement-
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower or on the part of the Board under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution of the Board or for the suspension of its operations,
unless arrangements acceptable to the Association shall have been made to replace
the Board by an organization which will assume and perform all the obligations
of the Board referred to in Section 4.01(c) of this Development Credit Agreement
upon such dissolution or suspension; and
(d)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Board will be able to perform its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified  in  paj igraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occu and shall continue for a period of thirty
days.
(b)   any  event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been give-n by the Association to the Borrower;
and
(c)   any  event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur.


﻿12
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of September 24, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04(b) and
Article IV of this Development Credit Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(c) of Section 5.01 of this Development Credit Agreement and those of paragraph
(c) of Section 5.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty-five years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning (Planning
Commission) of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
ARTICLE VIII
Amendment to the 1972 Development Credit Agreement
Section 8.01. Part I of Schedule 2 to the 1972 Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"The installation of microwave systems between Dacca, Mymensingh
and Bogra, between Dacca and Sylhet and between Kushtia, Natore and
Rajshahi, as well as the provision of multiplex equipment."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Telephone cables               2,400,000          45% (represent-
manufactured                                      ing the esti-
within the terri-                                 mated foreign
tories of the                                     exchange compo-
Borrower                                          nent)
11.   Box exchanges                  1,240,000          100% of foreign
and subscriber                                    expenditures or
apparatus                                         75% of local
expenditures
Ill.  Microwave systems,             5,060,000          100% of foreign
UHF systems, VHF                                  expenditures
systems and
multiplex equip-
ment
IV.   Trunk switching                2,210,000          100% of foreign
equipment                                         expenditures or
75% of local
expenditures
V.    Air-conditioning               2,800,000          100% of foreign
equipment                                         expenditures
VI.   Consultants'                     300,000          100% of foreign
services                                          expenditures or
70% of local
expenditures
VII. Unallocated                     5,990,000
TOTAL              20,0000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower.
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures made prior to the date of this Development
Credit Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to Category I or to local expenditures
under Categories II, IV or VI in order that further withdrawals under such
Categories may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Development Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under this Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the


﻿16
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:     Local Network
Installation of 65,000-line capacity of local telephone exchange
equipment together with cables, other associated plant and equipment
and subscriber apparatus.
Part B:     Long-distance Network
1.   Installation of microwave systems together with associated multiplex
equipment linking:
(a)   Bogra-Jaipurhat-Phulbari-Dinajpur-Thakurgaoni   (960-channel
capacity).
(b)   Phulbari-Rangpur (960-channel capacity).
(c)   Bogra-Santahar-Natore (960-channel capacity).
(d)   Kushtia-Chaudanga (960-channel capacity) with facility for
extension to Krishnanagar in India.
(e)   Khulna-Pirojpur-Barisal (960-channel capacity).
(f)   Comilla-Hajiganj (300-channel capacity).
2.    Installation of UHF systems, VHF systems, openwire carrier systems,
openwire lines and about 500 public call offices.
3.    Installation of four national trunk automatic exchanges at Dacca,
Bogra, Chittagong and Kushtia, and associated equipment for
terminating trunk circuits at 27 stations.
4.    Installation of one international telephone exchange at Dacca.
Part C:     Improvement of the Beneficiary 's operations through:
1.    Review and improvement in stores management, commercial office
procedures, and billing and collections.


﻿18
2.   Establishment of a modern accounting system in accordance with the
Plan of Action set forth in Exhibit A to this Schedule, as such Plan
of Action shall be amended from time to time by further agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
3.   Training for the technical and financial staffs of the Beneficiary.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿19
EXHIBIT "A"
Plan of Action
for
The Carrying Out of Part C.2 of the Project
1.    The responsibility for the accounting and internal auditing of the Beneficiary
shall be assumed by the Beneficiary, as soon as possible after the date of this
Development Credit Agreement but in any event not later than the date of
establishment of the Board.
2.    Within six months from the engagement of the consultants retained to assist
in the carrying out of Part C.2 of the Project, the Beneficiary shall establish a
system for the costing of engineering and other related operations, designed to
be integrated within the accounts of the Beneficiary.
3.    Within one year from the engagement of consultants referred to in paragraph
2 above, the Beneficiary shall, in consultation with the Borrower:
(a)   prepare a physical inventory of the Beneficiary's fixed assets;
(b)   establish methods and procedures for the valuation and revaluation
of such fixed assets;
(c)   establish the initial valuation of such fixed assets on the basis of the
current value thereof:
(d)   prepare a detailed fixed assets register, showing inter alia each asset's
description, location, original cost, depreciation rate and current value;
(e)   issue an accounts code and an accounts manual describing each item
in the accounts code and prescribing basis for definition, classification and reporting
of financial data; and
(f)   establish a system  of internal audit.
4.    The Beneficiary shall prepare budgets broken down by areas of responsibility,
beginning with the fiscal year 1976.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   For goods included in Categories II, III, IV and V of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Development Credit
Agreement, and except as provided in paragraph A.2 of this Schedule, contracts
shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph I shall not apply to:
(a)   negotiated purchases of spare parts or standardized equipment; or
(b)   the use of options for additional purchases under contracts entered
into pursuant to paragraph 1; or
(c)   goods included in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement, if procured from
Bangladesh Cable Shilpa Ltd. in accordance with the Beneficiary's usual procedures.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
I.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods, referred to in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule, bidders shall be required
to state in their bid: (i) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; and (ii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation. Customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded.
2.    Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿21
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for tile award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, aill group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15' of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15',4 of such price. If the group
A bid in such forther comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award,
if iot, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Rei7ieiw of Procurement Decisions by Association
I.   With respect to all contracts for goods referred to in paragraph A. 1 of this
Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿22
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the Borrower's recommendation for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, and,
where applicable, the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
The Board
I.    Functions
The Board shall be responsible for the development, operation and
maintenance of all public telecommunications services and facilities within the
territories of the Borrower.
1I.   Powers and Responsibilities
In order to carry out its functions, the Board shall inter alia have power
to:
(a)   subject to the approval of the Borrower in such cases as shall be
prescribed in the laws and regulations of the Borrower governing the operations
of the Board:
(i)         establish such tariffs for the services it provides as shall enable
the Board to perform the obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.06 of this Development Credit Agreement;
(ii)        prepare its annual operating and capital budgets; and
(iii)       borrow money domestically, with or without the Borrower's
guarantee.
(b)   decide, through its chief executive officer, all operational matters and
expenditures within the approved budgets.
(c)   keep and operate its own accounting and internal audit systems.
(d)   collect and retain its own revenues for the services it provides, on
the basis of the tariffs referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(i) above.
(e)   open and operate bank accounts.
III.  Debt
1.    As from the date of the start of the Board's operations (hereinafter called
the Starting Date), the Board shall assume towards the Borrower a debt in ai
amount equal to the sum of:


﻿24
(a)   the amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account as of
the Starting Date and thereafter any further amount withdrawn from such Credit
Account;
(b)   the amount of the credit provided in the 1972 Development Credit
Agreement withdrawn from the Credit Account referred to in such Agreement as
of the Starting Date and thereafter any further amount withdrawn from such Credit
Account;
(c)   the amount of the credit provided in the Development Credit
Agreement (Reconstruction Imports Program) No. 345 BD between the Borrower
and the Association, dated November 30, 1972, withdrawn under Category B.4
of Schedule I to such Agreement as of the Starting Date and thereafter any further
amount withdrawn under such Category; and
(d)   the amount of any loan in any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower which may have been obtained by the Borrower to finance
investments in public telecommunications services between January 1, 1972 and
May 30, 1974, and which shall have been drawn down by the Borrower as of
the Starting Date and thereafter any further amount so drawn down by the
Borrower.
2.   The debt referred to in paragraph 111.1 above shall:
(a)   earn interest on the outstanding balance thereof at the rate of 6-1/4%
per annum;
(b)   be repaid within twenty-five years, including five years of grace, both
counted from the date of this Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)   be serviced in the currency of the Borrower, in the amount determined
to be the equivalent, as of the date of repayment, of the amounts withdrawn
by the Borrower.
3.    If the Board is required to assume any debt in addition to debt described
in paragraph 111.1 above, it shall do so under terms and conditions consistent with
Section 4.05 of this Development Credit Agreement.
4.    The provisions of this Part III shall supersede the provisions of Section 3.08
of the 1972 Development Credit Agreement.


﻿25
IV.   Capital
As of the Starting Date, the Borrower's contribution to the Board's capital
shall be equal to the estimated value of BTT's total assets, including plant under
construction as of that date, minus the sum of:
(a)   current liabilities arising out of BTT's operations and outstanding as
of the Starting Date; and
(b)   the outstanding amount of debt determined in accordance with the
provisions of Part III of this Schedule; provided, however, that if the valuation
of assets referred to in paragraph 3(c) of Exhibit A to Schedule 2 to this
Development Credit Agreement is completed after the Starting Date, the Borrower's
contribution to the Board's capital, determined in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule, shall be adjusted in accordance with such valuation of assets.
0


﻿26
SCHEDULE 5
Method of Calculating Rates of Return
For the purposes of Section 4.06(a) of this Development Credit Agreement:
1.    The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the Beneficiary's
net operating income for the fiscal year in question to the average value of the
Beneficiary's net fixed assets in operation.
2.    The term   "value of the Beneficiary's net fixed assets" shall mean the gross
value of such assets used for the Beneficiary's telecommunications services, as
realistically valued and revalued from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation and revaluation acceptable to the
Association, less the amount of accumulated straight-line depreciation, as set forth
in paragraph 4(b) below.
3.    The term   "average value of the Beneficiary's net fixed assets" shall mean
one-half of the sum of (i) the value of the Beneficiary's net fixed assets at the
beginning of the fiscal year, and (ii) the value of the Beneficiary's net fixed assets
at the end of the same fiscal year.
4.    The term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(a)   gross   operating   revenues    accruing   from    the   Beneficiary's
telecommunications services; and
(b)   the sum   of operating, maintenance, overhead and administration
expenses (but excluding interest and other charges on debt), taxes (if any), adequate
provision for straigh.-line depreciation based on the useful life of the assets as
shown in the balance sheets of the Beneficiary and valued and revalued as set
forth in paragraph 2 above, all related to the Beneficiary's telecommunications
services.


