                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                             APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                  April 1, 2013
                                                                           Report No.: AB7291
                                            (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


 Operation Name              QUALITY OF DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY
                             SUPPORT DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION
 Region                      AFRICA
 Country                     Rwanda
 Sector                      Central government administration (50%), subnational
                             government administration (50%)
 Operation ID                P145114
 Lending Instrument          Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
 Implementing Agency         MINISTRY OF FIANANCE AND ECONOMIC
                             PLANNING
                             Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
                             Boulevard de la Revolution, Opposite of
                             PO Box 158, KIGALI, RW
                             Rwanda
                             Tel: (250-252) 576-701        Fax: (250-252) 577-581
                             mfin@minecofin.gov.rw
 Date PID Prepared           April 1, 2013
 Estimated Date of Appraisal April 2, 2013
 Estimated Date of Board May 14, 2013
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision   Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                             proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
Rwanda has restored peace and national security, and achieved remarkable development
successes over the last 18 years since the devastating genocide of 1994. The country has
achieved high growth, rapid poverty reduction and, since 2005, reduced inequality. Between
2001 and 2011, real GDP growth averaged 8.2% per annum, and total household consumption
expenditures per adult equivalent recorded an increase of 28%. Between 2001 and 2011, the
poverty rate dropped by fourteen percentage points (from 59% in 2001 to 45% in 2011).
While Rwanda has made great strides toward addressing its development challenges by
significantly reducing poverty (with a notable acceleration over the last five years), Rwanda
remains among the world’s poorest countries: 45% of the population live below the poverty line
and 24% are extremely poor. The provision of social services and public goods is steadily
increasing, consistent with the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) targets, with notable
improvements in the delivery of health and education services. However, child malnutrition
continues to affect a significant number of Rwandans: 44% of children under the age of 5 are
stunted. Households that rely on farm wage labor continue to be among the poorest and have
largely missed out on the benefits arising from the poverty reduction trend over the last 10 years.
In addition, climate-related risks exacerbate the problems faced by the extreme poor who rely
primarily on rain-fed agriculture for their subsistence.
The international community has provided strong support to Rwanda’s progress in growth and
poverty reduction. For example, over the last decade, aid has supported major reforms in
economic policy making. Development partners also supported important sector programs,
which have led to remarkable achievements in agricultural productivity and health outcomes –
areas where many other low income countries are facing major challenges.
Over the medium term, Rwanda has set itself four overarching development goals focused on: (i)
economic transformation; (ii) rural development; (iii) enhanced productivity and youth
employment; and, (iv) accountable governance and quality service delivery. Decentralization
has been a key aspect of Rwanda’s strategy to achieve its development goals. Increasing
responsibility has been transferred to sub-national governments both for the delivery of basic
services and the promotion of local economic development. Looking ahead to the next decade,
one of Rwanda’s key priorities is to design and implement reforms to further improve the quality
of service delivery at the local government level. This will require both greater administrative
capacity – building skills and systems – and strengthened accountability for performance.
Since 2000, the Government has implemented decentralization in a phased approach. The first
phase (2001-05) focused on creating new administrative structures and introducing elections for
new sub-national government levels. This was followed by the second phase (2006-10), which
focused on strengthening the capacity of district and sub-district (“sector?) governments to
deliver basic services to the population – e.g. health, education, social protection, civil and land
registration, etc. Districts were reduced in number, from 107 to 30, while their staffing levels
were increased. Capacity building efforts were focused on direct policy implementation and
service delivery at the level of the 416 sub-district sector governments, and on planning and
implementation support at the district level. District mayors took on specific commitments in
terms of improved service delivery, reflected in performance contracts signed with and
monitored by the national government.
Rwanda is now entering the third phase of its decentralization policy, further emphasizing the
improvement of citizen participation at the local government level, both in policy formulation
and implementation. In addition, the Government is working towards further enhancing the
ability of sub-national governments to deliver basic services and promote local economic
development. This involves efforts to increase both revenue raising powers and the overall
administrative capacity of local governments. A clear indication of the progress on
decentralization is the rise in financial transfers from the central to local governments. The share
of domestic revenues of the central government transferred to districts has increased
significantly, from 1.4% in 2002 to 33.3% in 2011/12. Similarly, by 2010 the number of sub-
national government staff was almost on a par with that central government staff, with 8,549
employees at the local level compared to 10, 284 employees at the central level.
Despite Government efforts to improve the quality of service delivery at the local government
level, many challenges remain. For example, the overall citizen satisfaction rate with service
delivery stood at 66% according to the 2010 governance scorecard. Some of the main challenges
going forward are: (i) adopting a coherent policy and legal framework to guide decentralization
efforts; (ii) further improving administrative capacity and management systems at the local
government level; (iii) increasing local government flexibility for raising and allocating
resources to meet specific district needs; and, (iv) further enhancing mechanisms for citizen
participation and public sector accountability , including through greater access to information.
In this regard, the government recognizes that increasing civil society’s voice and engagement in
policy formulation and service delivery remains is an important mean to improve service
delivery in the medium term.
The proposed operation “QUALITY OF DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY SUPPORT
DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION? supports policy reforms by the Government of
Rwanda to address these challenges, as articulated in its own strategies. These include the Vision
2020 and Rwanda’s second Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS II)
covering 2013-18, which is currently being finalized.

        Proposed Objective(s)

The program development objective (PDO) is to assist the Government of Rwanda in improving
the quality of service delivery at the local government level.

The main policy areas supported by this proposed operations are:
1.   Strengthened policy and legal framework for decentralization;
2.   Capacity development for quality service delivery at the local level;
3.   Improving government transparency and accountability to citizens; and
4.   Enhanced local government fiscal autonomy and fiduciary accountability.

By supporting efforts to improve service delivery, government accountability and citizen
participation in policy formulation and implementation, the proposed operation contributes to the
two main pillars of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2008–2012, namely to promote
economic transformation and growth, and reducing social vulnerability. By supporting public
sector capacity building it also contributes to the cross cutting capacity filter in the CAS. The
proposed project is also likely to be strongly consistent with the new CAS which will be
finalized in the first half of FY14. Indeed, the CAS will be aligned with the EDPRS II, which has
an overarching priority theme the strengthening of Accountable Governance including citizen
participation and improving the quality of service delivery. Moreover, the EDPRSII will put an
increased focus on policy design and implementation at the district level, including through
District Development Plans and District budgets.

This proposed operation is fully aligned with the government’s medium term strategies, thereby
ensuring its ownership. The operation draws its policy actions and results framework from the
country performance assessment framework (CPAF) and other strategy papers (including the
Sector Strategic Plans for decentralization and PFM), and therefore supports the further
development and use of Rwanda’s own systems.

        Preliminary Description

Policy Area 1: Strengthened policy and legal framework for decentralization
Despite the progress achieved in the first and second phases of decentralization, the division of
roles and responsibilities between local governments and line ministries/departments as well as
among local governments requires further clarification. Therefore, the objective of this policy
area is to support the government of Rwanda in formulating and implementing a coherent policy
and legal framework that will contribute to service delivery at the local government level.
The proposed prior action is:
 The Government to approve a new decentralization policy that will clarify roles and
   responsibilities; enhance civil society participation; and strengthen local government systems
   and capacities (Fully achieved: Cabinet approval in Jan 2013).

Policy Area 2: Capacity development for quality service delivery at the local level

Limited capacity at both central and local levels is a key constraint to improvements in the
quality of service delivery. As about one third of central government resources are now
transferred to local governments, capacity development at the sub-national level is increasingly
important. Therefore, the objective of this policy area is to support the government of Rwanda in
improving capacity at the local government level. In particular, given that the evidence from the
decentralization process over the last decade has shown capacity building interventions to be too
supply driven and uncoordinated, the aim of this policy area is to enhance bottom-up district-led
capacity building plans that look holistically at organizational and individual capacity
strengthening needs.

The proposed prior action is:
 Capacity building plans finalized for at least 90% of Districts by end March 2013 ( Fully
   achieved: 29 Districts will finalize their Capacity Building Plans by the end of March 2013;
   28 are already completed).

Policy Area 3: Improving government transparency and accountability to citizens

Improving government transparency is critical for citizen participation and more accountable
governance – one of the key themes in the ongoing third phase of decentralization. As more
resources are allocated to local governments, it becomes more important for these to have
stronger institutions of accountability. Therefore, the objective of this policy area is to support
the government of Rwanda to establish a legal framework in support of greater transparency in
general, and to strengthen an accountability mechanism on financial resources in particular.

Proposed policy actions are:
 A new Access to Information Bill gazetted that provides for the right to public information
   by all citizens and the proactive disclosure of information to the public (Fully achieved:
   Access to Information Bill was Gazetted in March 2013).

Policy Area 4: Enhanced local government fiscal autonomy and fiduciary accountability

The Government recognizes that, as sub-national administrative capacity and associated
accountability processes are strengthened, local government responsibilities must be matched
with increased fiscal autonomy. There are two primary drivers of this autonomy: increased
flexibility – within legally prescribed limits – for local revenue raising; and, increased use of
discretionary grants from central government. While one third of central government revenues
are transferred to sub-national governments, the share of discretionary block grants in total
transfers is only about 20%. Further, the share of local revenues in local government budgets is
very low, ranging from 5 to 20%: districts remain heavily reliant on central government transfers
and until recently the legal framework for local revenues was highly restrictive. Increased sub-
national fiscal autonomy – coupled with strengthened capacity and accountability – will support
improvements in service delivery quality through two channels. First, it will allow local services
to be more responsive to local needs, ensuring more efficient and effective use of public
resources. Second, it will lay the foundations over the longer-term for the development of a
stronger accountability relationship between tax payers and local governments.

To this end, the objective of this policy area is to support the government of Rwanda to enhance
local government fiscal autonomy. This will include improving the legal framework in order to
enhance local government revenues, while making the structure of local taxes and fees less
regressive. The Government passed a law in December 2011 establishing the sources of revenue
and property of decentralized entities and governing their management. The law aims to: (i) help
streamline local revenue administration, removing nuisance revenues; (ii) increase district and
town revenue collections, and; (iii) make the subnational revenue system more progressive. An
accompanying Ministerial and Presidential Order has established the list of fees and other
charges levied by decentralized entities and determined their thresholds.

Proposed policy action is:
 Presidential Order No. 25/01 of 09/07/2012 for fees and other charges levied by
   decentralized entities (Fully achieved: Gazetted in July 2012, Presidential Order No. 25/01
   of 09/07/2012)
 80% of audit committee reports for 2012 submitted to District Councils by District audit
   committees (Fully Achieved: by December 2012, twenty five (i.e. 83%) District audit
   committees had held quarterly meetings and reported to their respective District Councils)


       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

1. Poverty and Social Impacts

Overall, the proposed operation is expected to contribute to poverty reduction and improved
social conditions in the country by supporting improvements in service delivery at the local
government level, which is expected to increase access to quality basic services among the poor.

2. Environmental Aspects

The supported policy actions are not expected to generate significantly negative environmental
impacts.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                       ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                          0
International Development Association (IDA)                                50
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specify)
                                                                   Total   50

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Yoichiro Ishihara
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-9802
Fax: (202) 473-8262
Email: yishihara@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Ronald Nkusi
Title: Director, External Finance Unit, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Tel: 250-252596130
Email: ronald.nkusi@minecofin.gov.rw

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
