                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00003230



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H8530)



                                      ON A

                                      GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.4 MILLION
                        (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                         THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                       FOR

       QUALITY OF DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY SUPPORT
                     DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION


                                December 16, 2014




Governance Global Practice
Country Department Eastern Africa 2
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective as of 19 November 2014)

                    Currency Unit = Rwandan Franc
                        Rwf 1.00 = 0,001448US$
                        US$1.00 = 690.5314 Rwf
                            FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1- June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSHG        Budget Support Harmonization Group
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CPAF        Common Performance Assessment Framework
DPL         Development Policy Lending
DSA         Debt Sustainability Analysis
DTIS        Diagnostic Trade Integration Study
EAC         East African Community
EARP        Electricity Access Rollout Program
EDPRS       Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
EMIS        Education Management Information System
EWSA        Energy Water Sanitation Authority
FDI         Foreign Direct Investment
FSDP        Financial Sector Development Plan
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICA         Investment Climate Assessment
ICR         Implementation and Completion Results
IDA         International Development Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IFMIS       Integrated Financial Management Information System
IPPIS       Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System
MDG         Millennium Development Goal
JBSR        Joint Budget Support Review
JSR         Joint Sector Review
MINECOFIN   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MT          Metric Ton
MTEF        Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MW          Megawatt
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
OAG         Office of the Auditor General
PD          Program Document
PDO         Program Development Objective
PEFA        Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PETS        Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PFM         Public Financial Management
PforR       Program for Results


                                   ii
PPP    Public-Private Partnership
PRSF   Poverty Reduction Support Financing
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSI    Policy Support Instrument
RMF    Road Maintenance Fund
RURA   Rwanda Utility Regulation Agency
SCBI   Strategic Capacity Building Initiative
SEAS   Subsidiary Entity Accounting System
SWG    Sector Working Group
TVET   Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UERP   Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation Project




                Vice President: Makhtar Diop
              Country Director: Diarietou Gaye
              Country Manager Carolyn Turk
          Sr. Practice Director: Mario Marcel Cullell
             Practice Manager: Guenter Heidenhof
            Task Team Leader: Yoichiro Ishihara
            ICR Team Leader: Leif Jensen
          ICR Primary Author: Leif Jensen




                              iii
                                                        REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
                      QUALITY OF DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY SUPPORT
                                            DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION




                                                                   CONTENTS




     Data Sheet
      A. Basic Information
      B. Key Dates
      C. Ratings Summary
      D. Sector and Theme Codes
      E. Bank Staff
      F. Results Framework Analysis
      G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
      H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................................ 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................................................................... 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................................................... 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......................................... 28
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................................... 29
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR...................................................................... 30
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................................... 33
   MAP




                                                                            iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Quality of Decentralized
                                                                           Service Delivery Support
Country:                Rwanda                   Program Name:
                                                                           Development Policy
                                                                           Operation
Program ID:             P145114                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H8530
ICR Date:               12/10/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:                 MINECOFIN
Original Total
                        XDR 33.40M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 33.40M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 33.40M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINECOFIN)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 not applicable
B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/08/2013     Effectiveness:                                  06/04/2013
Appraisal:             04/02/2013     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/14/2013     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2014           06/30/2014
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                 Ratings               Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Highly Satisfactory Government:                      Highly Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Highly Satisfactory                                  Highly Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                           Highly Satisfactory                                  Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                                 v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                               Rating:
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Program                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of Supervision
                            No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                      (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       30                      30
Sub-national government administration                                  70                      70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                   5                      5
Decentralization                                                         45                     45
Other public sector governance                                            5                      5
Participation and civic engagement                                       10                     10
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                 35                     35
E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:             Makhtar Diop                          Makhtar Diop
Country Director:           Diarietou Gaye                        Diarietou Gaye
Practice Manager/Manager: Guenter Heidenhof                       Pablo Fajnzylber
Program Team Leader:        Yoichiro Ishihara                     Yoichiro Ishihara
ICR Team Leader:            Leif Jensen
ICR Primary Author:         Leif Jensen


F. Results Framework Analysis
Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The program development objective (PDO) is to support the Government to clarify institutional
roles and responsibilities for decentralized service delivery and to enhance public transparency,
fiduciary accountability, and local government capacity for improved access to quality services.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.


                                                vi
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                               Original Target Values                            Actual Value Achieved at
                      Baseline                              Formally Revised
    Indicator                      (from approval                                  Completion or Target
                       Value                                  Target Values
                                      documents)                                           Years
                                                                                        1
Indicator 1 : Percentage of staff positions filled in revised organizational structures
Value
(quantitative
              0%              70%                          N/A                  79.2%
or
Qualitative)
Date
              04/02/2013 06/04/2013                        06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments
              The target value of 70% of "staff positions filled" was fully achieved with actual value of
(incl. %
              79.2%.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Fees and charges collected by districts
Value
(quantitative Rwf134          12% increase from the
                                                           N/A                  33%
or            million         program baseline
Qualitative)
Date
              12/31/2012 06/04/2013                        06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments The target was fully achieved. Collections increased from Rwf13.9 billion in 2012
(incl. %      (calendar year) to Rwf18.5 billion in 2013/14 (fiscal year). Baseline value adjusted, based
achievement) on district's financial reports audited by OAG.
Indicator 3 : PEFA PI-23 (availability of information on resource received by service delivery unit)
Value
(quantitative                                                                   Actual value not available at
              D               C                            N/A
or                                                                              ICR
Qualitative)
Date
              11/30/2010 06/04/2013                        06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments Program Objectives substantially achieved. Significant PFM capacity; new earmarked
(incl. %      transfer framework for service delivery; and two PETS show that a PEFA assessment rating
achievement) of "C" on PEFA PI-23 is likely. PEFA assessment delayed by change in framework.
Indicator 4 : % of citizens who participate in the district budgetary process (o/w women)
Value
(quantitative
              11% (10%) 20% (19%)                          N/A                  29% (52%)
or
Qualitative)
Date
              06/30/2010 06/04/2013                        06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments The target was fully achieved. The overall citizen participation was 29% in comparison to
(incl. %      the target of 20%. The share of women, out of the total number of citizens who
achievement) participated, was 52%, against target value of 19%.
Indicator 5 : % of citizens who participate in the formulation of Imihigo activities (o/w women)


1
    That matches with the mandates of Local Governments approved by District Councils and Sector Ministries




                                                              vii
Value
(quantitative
              24% (22%) 30% (28%)                        N/A                  72% (52%)
or
Qualitative)
Date
              06/30/2010 06/04/2013                      06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments The target was fully achieved. The overall citizen participation was 72% in comparison to
(incl. %      the target of 30%. The share of women, out of the total number of citizens who participated,
achievement) was 52%, against target value of 28%.
Indicator 6 : The number of districts with qualified audit 2
Value
(quantitative                                                                 Actual value not available at
              0              5 districts (17%)           N/A
or                                                                            ICR
Qualitative)
Date
              06/30/2012 06/04/2013                      06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments Program Objective substantially achieved. Three districts received "qualified audit" in
(incl. %      2012/13. Activities under the Operation supported the districts to meet the target. The
achievement) outcome target for 2013/14 is being evaluated by the OAG in March 2015.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                            Original Target Values                          Actual Value Achieved at
                Baseline                              Formally Revised
  Indicator                      (from approval                               Completion or Target
                 Value                                  Target Values
                                   documents)                                        Years
Indicator 1 : There were no intermediate outcome indicators in the Operation
Value
(quantitative
              0           0                          0                    0
or
Qualitative)
Date
              06/04/2013 06/04/2013                  06/04/2013           06/30/2014
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      There were no intermediate outcome indicators in the Operation.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
            Date ISR                                                                                 Actual Disbursements
    No.                                      DO                                  IP
            Archived                                                                                    (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


2
  A qualified audit means that ‘except for the matters raised, proper books of account have been maintained and the financial
statements do give a true and fair view of the state’ based on audit opinion of the Auditor General. An unqualified or clean audit
means that ‘proper books of account have been kept and the financial statements give a true and fair view (clean audit)’ based on
audit opinion of the Auditor General. The former is a prerequisite for the latter.




                                                               viii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1. Context at Appraisal
Background

1.      While Rwanda has made significant progress towards addressing its development
challenges, it remains among the world’s poorest countries: about 45 percent of the population
lives below the poverty line and 24 percent are extremely poor 3. Furthermore, while the poverty
headcount is relatively low in urban areas at 22 percent, it is on average 49 percent outside the
capital. Health insurance coverage and usage of district hospitals have increased but remain
negatively correlated with poverty status, and so is usage of other services provided by local
governments.

2.      The Government has identified the decentralization process as the key focus for its
overall governance reforms. The objective of the Government’s decentralization program is to
bring, inter alia, governance and service delivery closer to its citizens and to improve
accountability to citizens. Thus starting in 2001, the Government has progressively decentralized
decision-making, the provision of some public services and resources to local governments in
three phases.

•    The first phase, 2001-2006, focused on establishing 5 levels of government - namely: central
     government, provinces, districts, sub-districts and cells - and democratic and community
     development structures at local government level.
•    The second phase (2006–2011) saw a greater increase in total transfers to districts, and a
     concomitant attempt to build more capacity in local government institutions to enhance
     service delivery implementation and boost local economic development.
•    The third phase of decentralization (2011-2015) 4 emphasizes improvements in the targeting
     of service provision to meet the needs of the poor by empowering sub-national governments,
     including strengthening their capacity. 5

3.     At appraisal, Rwanda was under a difficult political and economic situation. Following
the publication of a UN report alleging Government involvement in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, development partners suspended or delayed planned budget support to Rwanda
equivalent to 11 percent of the budget in the first half of FY2012/13 (July-December 2012). This
included the planned disbursement of World Bank’s Poverty Reduction Support Financing
(PRSF) (US$125 million). In addition, effective policy dialogue between the Government and



3 Rwanda’s poverty line is Rwf 64,000 (US$100) per year at constant January 2001 prices, equivalent to Rwf 118,000 (US$185)
at 2011 prices. Its extreme poverty line represents the level of expenditure needed to provide the minimum food requirement of
2,100 Kcal per adult per day which is Rwf 45,000 (US$71) at constant January 2001 prices. If the World Bank’s international
poverty line ($1.25 a day) is applied, the poverty rate is 63.2 percent in 2011.
4 “Decentralization Action Plan 2013-17”, Decentralization Sector Strategic Plan 2013/14-2017/18
5 For example, all districts have prepared their own District Development Plans for 2013–2018 to specify their medium term

growth and poverty reduction goals.




                                                              1
development partners through the Budget Support Harmonization Group (BSHG) had been
negatively affected by the situation and made engagement with the Government challenging.

4.      The suspension/delay in aid inflows translated into a deterioration of core economic
indicators in the second half of 2012. Due to the lagged effect of the aid shortfall, GDP growth
rate significantly decelerated from 8.8 percent in 2012 to 4.7 percent in 2013. The weighted
average rate of Treasury bills had increased by 310 basis points from 9.3 percent in June 2012 to
12.4 percent in December 2012. The level of international reserves had been ran down by about
US$200 million, from US$1,050 million (about 5 months of imports) in December 2011 to
around US$845 million in December 2012 (about 4 months of imports). Rising demand for
imports and a shortage of foreign currency had also led to a 3.1 percent depreciation of the
exchange rate over a period of six months.

5.      The preparation of the Operation reflected a request from the Government in February
2013 for the operation to be presented to the Bank’s Executive Board of Directors by May 2013.
The Government acknowledged that additional financial resources were necessary in order not to
undermine the progress made in poverty reduction and service delivery, and to further promote
reforms necessary in these areas. As part of the budget revision process for FY2012/13, the
Government had identified contingency expenditure items to be supported by supplemental
budget support operations by development partners. In order for the Government to execute the
identified expenditures in FY2012/13, it needed the Board approval by May 15, 2013.

6.      The Bank started preparing for this Operation when positive signs emerged on peace and
security. In February 2013, a new peace and security framework agreement to stabilize the
eastern part of DRC was signed by eleven Heads of States of the International Conference on the
Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) and officiated by Ban Ki-moon, the UN Secretary-General, and
Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, the Chairperson of the African Union Commission 6 . Some
development partners such as the African Development Bank 7 resumed their assistance and the
Board of Directors of the World Bank also approved the SSPS-2 operation of US$50 million on
March 14, 2014.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

7.      Even though the Operation was not in the FY2009-13 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), it was fully aligned with CAS. Discussed by the Board in August 2008, the CAS was
framed around two strategic pillars: (i) promoting economic transformation and growth and (ii)
reducing social vulnerability. By supporting policies aimed at increasing the quality of
decentralized service delivery, the proposed Operation contributed to outcomes in both CAS
strategic pillars and particularly to Outcome 1.4 on ‘Management of Public Resources at Central
and Local Levels Strengthened’. The FY2009-13 CAS was aligned with EDPRS 1 (2008-12)



6
  The World Bank was formulating a strategy to support economic development and promote peace and stability in the Great
Lakes region. The Bank’s formulation of a Strategy for the Great Lakes Region coincided with the peace deal signed in February
2013 by regional heads of states, with the objective of ending two decades of conflict in the east of the DRC.
7
  The Board of Directors of the African Development Bank approved US$40 million budget support on April 3rd 2013.




                                                              2
and followed the Government’s preferences for engaging with the Bank in coordination with
other development partners.

8.       The Operation capitalized on achievements of the past Bank interventions. In particular,
the operation benefited from the three series of Poverty Reduction Support Financing (PRSF) 8,
which supported service delivery by fostering sustainable delivery of basic services in education,
health, energy, and water sectors (2004-07), and three other sectors - agriculture, transport and
financial in 2008-10, through reducing the cost of service delivery and expanding services to the
population with a greater participation of the private sector (2011). In an annex to the PAD of
this Operation, the link between the Operation and the PRSF series is outlined, with an indication
of areas recovered in the DPO. 9 Furthermore, the Operation built on achievements of the
Decentralization and Community Development Projects (P106834, P117758 & P122157), the
Public Sector Capacity Building Project (P066386), and the Support to Social Protection System
operations (P126877, P131666 & P146452). It complemented other Bank operations, which
relied heavily on decentralized delivery mechanisms such as Land Husbandry, Water Harvesting
and Hillside Irrigation Project (P114931). It also drew on the Governance for Competitiveness
TA Project (2012-15) (P127105) which had a component supporting the national Strategic
Capacity Building Initiative, skills development, and civil service reforms in specific public
institutions for export promotion in horticulture and tourism.

1.2. Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.       The program development objective (PDO) was “to support the Government to clarify
institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized service delivery and to enhance public
transparency, fiduciary accountability, and local government capacity for improved access to
quality services”.

10.       The key outcome indicators under the Operation were identified as follows:

Policy Area 1 – Strengthening Policy Framework
      •   Outcome indicator 1 - Percentage of staff positions filled in revised organizational
          structures,
      •   Outcome indicator 2 - Fees and charges collected by districts,
Policy Area 2 – Enhancing the capacity for quality service delivery
      •   Outcome indicator 3 - PEFA PI-23 (availability of information on resources received by
          service delivery units),
Policy Area 3 – Improving government transparency and accountability to citizens
      •   Outcome indicator 4 - Percentage of citizens who participate in the district budgetary


8 The first series comprised P085192, P092944 and P098129. The second series included P1044990, P106083, P113241 and
P117495. The third series included P122247 and other two which were cancelled.
9 Please also refer to the ICR on the Eight Poverty Reduction Financing operation (ICR #2996), July 30, 2014.




                                                           3
          process (o/w women),
      •   Outcome indicator 5 - Percentage of citizens who participate in the formulation of
          Imihigo 10 activities (o/w women),
Policy Area 4 – Enhancing local government fiduciary accountability
      •   Outcome indicator 6 - The number of districts with qualified audits based on audit
          opinion of the Auditor General.

1.3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification)

11.       The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4. Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

12.       The Operation supported the government’s reforms in four policy areas.

13.      The Policy Area 1, “Strengthening policy framework for decentralization”, was intended
to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of local governments by clarifying their roles and
responsibilities. Revised local government organizational structures were to be established,
facilitating the allocation of human and financial resources to national and sub-national
government entities, in a way more commensurate to their functions and responsibilities.

14.     Moreover, the Operation sought to create a better enabling environment for local
economic development. By establishing the list of fees and other charges levied by decentralized
entities and the applicable thresholds, the Operation aimed at assisting the Government in
creating an improved and clear framework for collection of fees and other charges at the
decentralized levels. The framework sets clear maximum allowable rates to ensure that the fees
and other charges levied are consistent with the quality of services provided, therefore
encouraging the utilization of services by the population.

15.     In Policy Area 2, “Enhancing the capacity development for quality service delivery by
local governments”, the Operation intended to improve administrative capacity for the delivery
of quality services by local governments, in particularly on PFM. Improved PFM capacity and a
new framework on earmarked transfers to subsidiary bodies/service delivery units were supposed


10
   Introduced at the inception of the second phase of decentralization, the first Imihigo were signed between the President of the
Republic and District Mayors in 2006. The Imihigo then became an annual undertaking through which local governments
articulate their own objectives which reflect priorities of their local citizenry, and set strategies to achieve the objectives. Derived
from the traditional practice where individuals voluntarily set their own targets and publicly committed to achieve them within
time bound periods, the revived concept aims to strengthen participatory priority setting, bottom-up planning and accelerate
implementation while focusing on time bound results. The Imihigo are set yearly, but evaluated every six months. The process is
credited for strengthening the focus on results, enhancing budget execution rates, and improving local government planning,
implementation and reporting. Like other processes at the local government level, a number of areas are outlined as needing
improvements to further facilitate efficiency and effectiveness of the Imihigo: these include strengthening predictability of
planning; monitoring and evaluation; and increasing district resources potential to enable them commit realistically
[Decentralization Policy – 2013; Annual Evaluation of Imihigo – 2011/13].




                                                                   4
to improve the transparency and reliability of information on financial resources available to
service delivery units.

16.     Under Policy Area 3, “Improving Government Accountability and Transparency to
Citizens” the Operation sought to improve the enabling environment for increasing transparency
and public accountability. The Access to Information Law, which was the prior action, provides
for the right to information possessed by public organs and some private bodies by all citizens.
The policy area helps deliver the EDPRS 2 thematic pillar on Accountable Governance,
including strengthening citizen participation.

17.    In Policy Area 4, “Enhancing Local Government Fiduciary Accountability”, the
operation supported improved fiduciary accountability through the sub national PFM system at
and below the District level covering subsidiary entities including schools and health centers.
The recommendations from the district’s Audit Committees were seen as instrumental to
improve the quality of the financial statements, as measured by improvements in the audit
opinions provided by the Auditor General.

1.5. Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

18.    The Policy Areas were not revised.

1.6. Other Significant Changes

19.    There were no other significant changes regarding the policy areas for the Operation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Program Performance

20.    The Operation was approved by the Board on May 14, 2013. It became effective and
disbursed in June 2013. The Operation was a single-tranche development policy grant consisting
of SDR 33.4 million (US$50 million equivalent).

21.    The Operation had 5 prior actions. As Table 1 shows, all prior actions were fulfilled at
the appraisal stage and thus demonstrated the government’s commitment to the program.




                                               5
Table 1: Prior Actions and their Status
                        Prior Action                          Status                 At appraisal
Policy Area 1: Strengthened Policy Framework for Decentralization
1) The Recipient has approved a new decentralization policy     Met Cabinet approved the new policy in
which clarifies the roles and responsibilities of central and          January 2013
local government
2) The Recipient has published in the Official Gazette the      Met Gazetted in July 2012, Presidential Order
Presidential Order establishing the list of fees and other             No. 25/01 of 09/07/2012
charges levied by decentralized entities and the applicable
thresholds
Policy Area 2: Capacity Development for Quality Service Delivery by Local Governments
3) The Recipient has adopted twenty eight (28) District          Met 29 District Capacity Building Plans
capacity building plans approved by the District Councils              completed
Policy Area 3: Improving Government Accountability and Transparency to Citizens
4) The Recipient has published in the Official Gazette a new     Met Access to Information Law was Gazetted
Access to Information Law which provides for the public’s              in March 2013
right to information
Policy Area 4: Enhanced Local Government Fiduciary Accountability
5) The Recipient has reviewed twenty five (25) District Audit   Met    By December 2012, 25 Audit Committees
Committee reports of 2012 and issued communication to the              had held quarterly meetings and reported
Districts on the main areas for follow up                              to their respective District Councils

2.2. Major Factors Affecting Implementation

(a).    Government Commitment and Leadership

22.      Decentralization continued to be a foundation of the Government’s national development
policy, and where the Government put in place a number of policy measures, strategies and
institutions to support reform progress. First, one of key priorities in EDPRS 2 is to further
improve the quality of service delivery, which requires both greater administrative capacity –
building skills, planning, M&E, and PFM systems – and strengthened accountability for
performance at the local level of government, which is the focus of service delivery
implementation. Second, the PFM Sector Strategic Plan FY2013/14–2017/18 prioritizes support
to fiscal decentralization as well as the development of human resources and capacity building in
PFM. Third, the need for a stronger focus on building capacity at the district and sub-district
levels has been one of the key lessons that emerged from the EDPRS 1 and the evaluation of the
second phase of decentralization. Subnational capacity building and PFM are considered
foundational cross-cutting capacities where deficiencies need to be addressed to improve service
delivery. Fourth, as noted above in Table 1, the Government had shown strong commitment by
taking all the necessary measures to meet the prior actions. The government followed up by the
specific implementation steps during the course of the Operation.

(b).    Soundness of the Background Analysis

23.     The preparation of the Operation was informed by several analytic works that pinpointed
out challenges associated with the decentralization process and the improvement of quality
service delivery. Some of them are highlighted below.




                                                         6
•      The 2010 PEFA noted that efficient and effective PFM and fiscal decentralization requires
       not only adequate and transparent levels of resources for local authorities, but also financial
       and managerial capacity for local governments to mobilize their own revenues, manage
       resources efficiently and enhance accountability of how public money is spent.
•      The Independent Evaluation of the Implementation of the PFM Reform Strategy 2008-2012
       highlighted capacity constraints, including human resources, as one of the major challenges
       in financial management – especially in the area of procurement– at the sub national
       government level.
•      The Bank completed an assessment of Rwanda’s progress on public service reform in 2012,
       entitled, “Enhancing Human Resource Management for Rwanda’s Vision 2020”, which
       considered the institutional capacity constraints affecting service delivery in the agriculture
       and energy sectors and reviewed the literature on public service reform in Rwanda including
       the various Functional Reviews carried out across the public sector between 2008 - 2011.
•      The 2011 Pay and Retention Policy Situational Analysis noted that staff retention issues at
       district levels serve as a major hindrance to the decentralization process and good quality of
       service delivery 11.

24.         The findings were taken into account, when the Operation was designed.

(c).        Design of the Operation

25.     As previously noted, even though the Operation was not in the CAS at the time, it was
aligned with the CAS 12 and the Bank’s Africa Strategy, with its foundation on governance and
public sector capacity. Being a stand-alone DPO, the Operation’s design built on lessons learned
from, for example, the successful second PRSF series, which highlighted the importance of
advancing Government-owned reforms and emphasizing capacity building. The preparation of
the Operation benefited from close collaboration with development partners, and other various
stakeholders. For example, the development partners supported policy areas of the Operation and
shared their knowledge and expertise in designing the Operation.

(d).         Relevance of Risks Identified

26.    At the appraisal stage, four main risks that could jeopardize the expected outcomes of the
operation were identified. These included (i) political risks, (ii) macroeconomic risks, (iii)
stakeholder risks, and (iv) program specific risks. The design of the Operation, in collaboration
with other Bank Operations (e.g. Support to the Social Protection System series) helped mitigate
some of these risks.

•      Political risks. At the appraisal, the political situation surrounding Rwanda was fluid.
       Following the publication of a UN report alleging Government involvement in the DRC, the
       international community reacted by suspending or delaying planned general budget support


11
     Conducted by the Ministry of Public Service and Labor
12
     It is important to note that the proposed operation is not included in the current CAS.




                                                                    7
     to Rwanda. This created a significant gap in the budget prepared on the basis on anticipated
     development partner’s contribution. The World Bank Group mitigated political risks by
     formulating ‘A strategy to support economic development and promote peace and stability in
     the Great Lakes region’ with specific projects expected to have a positive impact on easing
     regional tension. Though this Operation did not have a direct impact on regional security and
     stability, the context of regional insecurity and its potential repercussions and the donor
     reactions posed a risk to the operation.
•    Macroeconomic risks. The suspension/delay in aid inflows translated into deterioration of
     core economic indicators (e.g. exchange rates, international reserves and interest rates) in the
     second half of 2012 (for details see section 1.1). Longer cessation of aid could have led to
     deeper deceleration of growth rates and thus held back progress made in poverty reduction,
     social indicators, and MDGs in the medium to long-term. With the financing provided
     through the Operation, the Government maintained public expenditures in priority areas for
     poverty reduction and service delivery as well as eased pressures on interest rates, exchange
     rates, and international reserves in the short-term. Therefore, the Operation mitigated a
     systemic risk to growth, poverty reduction, MDGs and social indicators in the medium and
     long-term.
•    Stakeholder risks. The Government exercised ownership of its reform program, and
     development partners aligned development assistance with government strategies through
     effective policy dialogue under the BSHG. However, the suspension/delay in budget support
     had negatively affected the policy dialogue between the Government and its development
     partners and undermined a good track record of aid effectiveness and aid coordination. It
     created some mistrust on both sides and significant risks since donors contributed a
     significant proportion of the Government budget. In the three fiscal years prior to the aid
     crisis, on average 42-44 percent of the budget was financed by aid inflows. 13 The preparation,
     and potentially the implementation, of the Operation provided a transitory framework
     through which the Bank remained engaged with the Government and development partners
     in policy discussions. It is also worth noting that the Development Partners Coordination
     Group has been reactivated and expanded to include DPs previously excluded from the
     BSHG to participate in the policy dialogue process. 14
•    Program specific risks. The policy reforms supported by the Operation as well as their
     respective intended outcomes were expected to be affected by the above mentioned risks.
     Most notably, the improvement of quality of service delivery was dependent on the
     availability of adequate budget resources. Program-specific risks included the country’s
     relatively weak capacity, especially at decentralized levels of government, for implementing
     planned interventions in the Operation and producing quality and timely outcome indicators.
     The Operation adequately mitigated these risks with prior actions that supported the

13
   In FY2009/10 (51 percent of public spending), in FY2010/11 (39 percent of public spending) and in FY2011/12 (42 percent of
public spending), source: MINECOFIN, Macro Framework Public Dataset of June 2014.
14 The Government and DPs discussed Terms of References regarding mechanisms for dialogue which led to a revitalization of

the Development Partners Coordination Group (DPCG). This mechanism would allow for a number of DPs that were previously
excluded from the BSHG to participate in the policy dialogue process. In terms of this operation, stakeholder risks were mitigated
through consultation with Government and other DPs, a process that enabled the Bank to remain engaged in policy reform
dialogue with the government. It is important to note, currently the DPCG has been operationalized.




                                                                8
      Government to clarify institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized service
      delivery and to enhance public transparency, fiduciary accountability, and local government
      capacity. Another potential risks for the program was that it was a single DPO to support a
      decentralization program that is long term. There was risk of sustainability of the outcomes
      achieved under the program. A key mitigating factor was that the Bank had started initial
      discussions and preparation for a Public Sector Governance Program-for-Results operation
      which partly supports fiscal decentralization. Other development partners also support
      decentralization through technical assistance.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

27.      Monitoring and Evaluation Design. The M&E of the Operation relied on Government’s
own systems and arrangements with the aim of strengthening Government capacity and
institutions. The Government had developed in close collaboration with development partners,
including the Bank, a result and performance framework integrated into the planning and
budgeting processes for monitoring the EDPRS. The integrated result framework/monitoring
system consisted of three components: (i) a National Results and Policy Matrix, (ii) the Common
Performance Assessment Framework (CPAF) which forms a subset of Performance Assessment
Framework (PAF) and (iii) the Donor Performance Assessment Framework (DPAF). The M&E
system has been further refined during the implementation period. The CPAF was discontinued
and replaced by the M&E of the EDPRS 2. Backward and forward looking Joint Sector Reviews
(JSRs), as a mechanism to monitor progress and to set priorities of sector strategies, were
strengthened by tightly linking them with the M&E of the EDPRS 2. The Operation particularly
utilized indicators in the PFM Sector Strategic Plan FY2013/14–2017/18, and the
Decentralization Sector Strategic Plan FY2013/14–2017/18 for monitoring and evaluating
progress on governance, public sector reforms, and decentralization. These indicators are
monitored through Rwanda’s Sector Working Groups structure, where the government and its
development partners meet regularly, and in annual backward and forward-looking JSRs report
on sector progress. The Operation also drew on the annual government Citizen Report Card
which reports on citizen satisfaction with service delivery and overall quality of service delivery.

28.     Implementation and Utilization. The Bank team monitored progress with
implementation of the reform program, at the sector level through the JSRs with the Government
and development partners. The backward-looking JSRs reported implementation status,
challenges and agreed measures to move forward. The Bank’s sector specialists not only
participated in the JSRs in their respective areas, but also led some of the areas as co-Chairs (lead
donor), together with the Government. The Bank has been co-chairing the PFM coordination
forum and actively participated in the Decentralization sector working group. Overall, the M&E
design, implementation and utilization benefited from a commitment and the specific steps by
the Government to ensure progress of the reforms.




                                                 9
2.4. Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

29.     The Operation served as a transition to the Bank’s FY2014-18 CPS. 15 The FY2014-18
CPS is framed around three themes, which include “Theme 3: Supporting Accountable
governance through public financial management and decentralization”. 16 Under this theme, the
Bank is committed to continuously improving delivery of decentralized services and
strengthening accountability. Building on achievements made through the Operation, the
FY2014-18 CPS proposes a ‘Public Sector Governance Program-for-Results’ that aims at
enhancing Public Financial Management and Statistical Systems to improve transparency and
accountability in the use of public funds, revenue mobilization, and the quality and accessibility
of development data for decision making. The Program aims to support EDPRS 2’s theme 4 on
Accountable Governance and is fully consistent with Theme 3 of the CPS. The Program-for-
Results operation was prepared during the course of this Operation. The Program was approved
by the Board of Executive Directors on 31 October 2014 (P149095), and is expected to become
effective by the end of 2014. The program provides a good bridge and continuity of the policy
areas supported by the DPO, while broadening the engagement beyond decentralization.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

30.    Relevance of the Objectives. The development objective of the Operation was “to
support the Government to clarify institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized
service delivery and to enhance public transparency, fiduciary accountability, and local
government capacity for improved access to quality services”. This objective remains highly
relevant to priorities of the Government’s EDPRS 2 and of the Bank’s FY2014-18 CPS; to the
foundation of the WBG’s Africa Regional Strategy; and to the WBG’s twin goals of shared
prosperity and ending extreme poverty.

31.     The DPO supports directly the mission itself of decentralization in Rwanda – “to promote
and ensure participatory, democratic, all-inclusive and accountable governance and effective
citizen-centered service delivery in Rwanda” 17 As mentioned in section 1, in the context of its’
recent history, decentralization is a cornerstone of the accountable governance framework in
Rwanda. The commitment of the government to undertake further steps to deepen
decentralization at a time of political crisis, further underpins the relevance of the Operation.

32.    Furthermore, direct and explicit linkages between the DPO and to overriding strategies
were established, such as:


15 The Country Partnership Strategy can be found at: http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2014/05/19515271/rwanda-

country-partnership-strategy-period-fy2014-2018.
16 Other CPS themes are: Theme 1: Accelerating economic growth that is private-sector driven and job creating, and Theme 2:

Improving the productivity and incomes of the poor through rural development and social protection.
17 “Governance and Decentralization Sector. Strategic Plan 2013/14 – 2017/18”, p 8.




                                                           10
• EDPRS 2, theme four on accountable governance, where one of the key priorities is to further
  improve the quality of service delivery through improved citizen participation. The
  Government recognizes that much remains to be done to reach the country’s goal in terms of
  participation, accountability and effective citizen-centered service delivery.
• Under theme 3 of the Bank’s FY2014-18 CPS (which is fully aligned with EDPRS 2 theme of
  accountable governance), the World Bank seeks to support the Government’s objective of
  decentralising decision-making and making the Government more open and participatory in
  its processes.
• The WBG’s twin goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity.
  Improving effectiveness and efficiency in the use of public resources at subnational entities is
  critical to maximizing progress towards the twin goals.
• The WBG’s Africa Strategy, where governance and public sector capacity are considered as
  the foundation of other pillars of the strategy, including priority areas of public expenditure
  management systems, and strengthening citizens’ voices.

33.     Design. The PDO identifies four components or policy areas which all are core to further
deepening decentralization reforms. The policy areas are well aligned vertically, without overlap
in outputs and activities. Within each policy area, the chosen indicators reflect the aspects of the
PDO, and a clear results structure is established – the outputs and activities leading to the output
are clearly identified, as well as the outputs are likely to contribute towards the outcomes. In
addition, the prior actions were critical and directly relevant as a logical sequence of actions
needed for the outcome of the Operation. While the outcome targets were demanding,
particularly over the course of a one-year operation, the outcome indicators were well targeted
and selected in translating development objectives into measurable and important steps towards
furthering the quality of decentralized service delivery. Furthermore, the design of this stand-
alone DPO was based on areas supported by the Bank, including lessons learned in earlier
operations and TA, by the Bank and development partners. In addition, with reference to the one-
year perspective, the Operation intended to improve overarching policy, capacity, transparency
and accountability objectives, rather than specific improvements within sector areas.
Furthermore, the design of the Operation is embedded in the decentralization reforms and
processes, as the Government had been committed to for many years. Lastly, the design
leveraged on the leadership and commitment of the government to decentralization by building
and ensuring synergy with government’s own program and support; the government was in the
driver’s seat and was clear about what it wanted to achieve.

34.     Implementation. The Operation proved to be effective in supporting Government’s
policies to further enhance decentralized service delivery, capacity building, including PFM, and
public participation. It also had the additional effect of mitigating the short-term economic and
social impact of the aid shortfall. The Operation provided important financial resources that
helped the Government maintain public expenditures in priority areas that are relevant to poverty
reduction. The success in implementation across the four policy components is mainly
attributable to the Government’s strong ownership, commitment and leadership to the reform
process, which was supplemented by engagements by development partners, including the Bank.
This cooperation developed a results and performance framework integrated into the planning
and budgeting processes for monitoring the EDPRS. In particular, this Operation utilized


                                                11
indicators in the PFM Sector Strategic Plan FY2013/14–2017/18, and the Decentralization Sector
Strategic Plan FY2013/14–2017/18 for monitoring and evaluating progress on governance,
public sector reform and decentralization.

3.2. Achievement of Program Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory
Policy Area 1: Strengthening Policy Framework for Decentralization

35.     This component supported the part of the PDO related to “support the Government to
clarify institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized service delivery”. As reflected in
the two prior actions in this policy area, the Operation supported activities and outputs to
strengthen policy framework for decentralization, with a view to ensure (i) increased
effectiveness and efficiency of local government by eliminating duplication of efforts between
central and local governments and (ii) a better enabling environment for local economic
development. This outcome and its targets were fully achieved, as explained below.

36.      On the clarification of the roles and responsibilities of central and local government, the
local government organizational structures were revised to facilitate the allocation of human and
financial resources to national and sub-national government entities, in a way that is more
commensurate to their functions and responsibilities. In addition to solving co-ordination issues,
the revised structure provided much clearer entry-points for citizens on the various areas of
service delivery. During 2013/14, legislation was prepared and Presidential Orders were issued,
outlining the organization and functioning of the various categories of sub-national governments
(districts with- or without legal functions; villages and cells). The Law determining the
Organization and Functioning of Decentralized Administrative Entities was approved by the
Parliament and gazetted in October 2013 (law no. 87/2013 of 11/09/2013), and the Government
issued guidance material to support the districts in actual implementation of the law. This
included the “Model Organizational Structure for Districts”, guidance paper. During the course
of 2013/14, the subnational government entities started filling staff positions in the revised
organizational structures. Data from the IPPIS shows that 79.2 percent of staff positions were
filled in 2013/14, with many districts edging close to 80-85% (see Table 2).




                                                 12
Table 2: Staff Positions Filled in Revised Organizational Structures, By Districts.
                 # Staff in Original   # Staff in Revised Organizational # Staff Positions to   Pct of Positions
      District
                     Structure                     Structure                   be Filled             Filled
BUGESERA               303                           354                         51                   86
BURERA                 283                           370                         87                   76
GAKENKE                350                           448                         98                   78
GASABO                 251                           426                         175                  59
GATSIBO                270                           337                         67                   80
GICUMBI                381                           494                         113                  77
GISAGARA               240                           306                         66                   78
HUYE                   260                           353                         93                   74
KAMONYI                234                           295                         61                   79
KARONGI                272                           364                         92                   75
KAYONZA                216                           277                         61                   78
KICUKIRO               243                           287                         44                   85
KIREHE                 258                           297                         39                   87
MUHANGA                263                           303                         40                   87
MUSANZE                269                           346                         77                   78
NGOMA                  255                           327                         72                   78
NGORORERO              272                           334                         62                   81
NYABIHU                266                           323                         57                   82
NYAGATARE              342                           411                         69                   83
NYAMAGABE              339                           416                         77                   81
NYAMASHEKE             273                           346                         73                   79
NYANZA                 241                           257                         16                   94
NYARUGENGE             186                           299                         113                  62
NYARUGURU              295                           343                         48                   86
RUBAVU                 296                           337                         41                   88
RUHANGO                217                           262                         45                   83
RULINDO                302                           374                         72                   81
RUSIZI                 347                           431                         84                   81
RUTSIRO                237                           312                         75                   76
RWAMAGANA              274                           363                         89                   75
   TOTAL               8235                         10392                       2157                 79.2
Source: MINALOC, Data extracted from the Government’s IPPIS

37.     As regards the enabling environment for local economic development, by supporting the
gazetting of the Presidential Order establishing the list of fees and other charges levied by
decentralized entities and the applicable thresholds, the Operation established the framework for
the districts to ensure that the fees and other charges levied are consistent with the quality of
services provided, and thereby, encouraging the utilization of services by the population.
Operationalization of the One Stop Center for all services related to construction permits and
land management was the key step in improving the services in support of economic
development within the new fee and charges framework. This enabled speedy treatment of the
files and helped the Districts clearing backlog files that had been there for quite long time. For
example, the construction permit can now be provided within only two weeks which increases
the volume of fees collected. Embracing some technologies like the fiber optic wireless helped to
reduce the cost of providing the services by the Districts which in turn increased the fees
collected from the population. The government recorded an increase of 33% in the actual fees




                                                       13
collected by districts over the course of FY13/14, as appears in Table 3. 18 In December 2013, the
Government decided to establish more ambitious targets than under this Operation, by an
initiative to centralize the collection of sub-national taxes, fees and charges by the Rwanda
Revenue Authority on behalf of the districts. The revenue gains from this initiative would
become available in FY14/15 and later.

Table 3: Collection of Fees and Charges by the Districts. 2012/13 – 2013/14
Fees by Type                                                                                        Actuals 2012/2013 FY Actuals 2013/2014
113108 - Plate Number Registration fees                                                                           309,200             702,000
113112 - Penality on number plate registration fees                                                                   -                13,000
141304 - Lease Fees on Land (LG)                                                                               54,859,547      1,653,505,196
142102 - Abattoir Fees                                                                                        162,065,419        112,030,125
         Market gate entry fees
142103 - 	                                                                                                  3,723,676,450      5,949,491,250
142107 - Laboratory Fees                                                                                          505,200               9,000
         Fee charged for advertising
142108 - 	                                                                                                     11,512,823         11,252,708
         Other Admin Fees
142399 - 	                                                                                                  2,186,956,458      3,421,365,213
142709 - Consular Fees                                                                                          1,904,935               7,700
142720 - Transfer of property ownership fees                                                                  301,814,396        400,582,995
142721 - Plot measurement fees                                                                                 50,845,558         38,324,369
142722 - Boundaries marks fees                                                                                 46,229,746         53,835,636
142723 - Billboards fees                                                                                      384,478,243        332,001,320
142724 - Banners fees                                                                                          15,584,298         32,395,376
142725 - Non engine operated boat fees                                                                             63,000           2,062,595
142726 - Engine operated boat fees                                                                                                    178,000
142727 - Brick yard licensing fees                                                                              2,621,900           7,209,120
142728 - Communication facilitation towers fees                                                                52,105,004         35,091,216
142729 - Mine or quarry permit or concession fee                                                              115,267,100        114,500,363
142730 - Mine ; quarry prospection fees and transport of material from quarries and forests                   441,961,435        728,405,535
142731 - Public cleaning services fees                                                                      3,491,100,888      4,266,444,296
142733 - Parking charges                                                                                      427,862,032        670,425,044
142734 - Annual technical inspection of transportation means                                                          -                75,550
142735 - Sale of flags                                                                                          9,455,900         27,803,300
142736 - Mines exploitation license                                                                            99,091,795         79,006,270
142737 - Sale of specifications                                                                                       -             7,912,490
142743 - Systematic Land Registration                                                                                             34,233,036
142744 - Land Registration Certificate Fees                                                                     2,827,311         35,989,731
142746 - Waste disposal Fees                                                                                      124,258             296,440
142747 - Court costs                                                                                        1,998,644,489        250,127,779
142754 - Registration Fee                                                                                          48,700             188,685
142755 - Fees Charged on Public Cemeteries                                                                            500           6,773,450
142756 - Fee charged on civil marriage done outside the official business days                                  2,557,700           5,444,256
142759 - Forestry Exploitation Fees                                                                           356,320,784        259,813,126
TOTAL                                                                                                     13,940,795,069     18,537,496,170
                                                                                          Variation                              33.0%
Source: MINECOFIN

Policy Area 2: Capacity Development for Quality Service Delivery by Local Governments

38.   The component supported the part of the PDO related to “ local government capacity for
improved access to quality services”. The Operation focused on the government’s initiatives to


18
  The 2012/13 baseline on fee collections was verified by the OAG, as part of audit of the annual financial statements. The
baseline in the PD for the Operation was based on information on the calendar year 2012, as provided in a survey carried out by a
research agency.




                                                                     14
strengthen capacity at the district level through adopting “districts capacity building plans” by
the district councils. These plans aim to provide the administrative capacity for the delivery of
quality services by local governments, particularly in the four top priority areas of human
resource management; planning; M&E; and PFM. While human resource management is dealt
with under policy area #1, this policy area #2 tracked improvements in PFM through
“Strengthening PFM Systems and Capacity at the Subnational Level”. Timely and transparent
financial information at the subnational level is key to improving the effective and efficient use
of public resources not only at the subnational level but also at the national level (about 80
percent of district budgets are financed by transfers from the central government). To this end,
and as a core element of the PFM Reform Sector Strategic Plan, the operation supported the
development of a simplified accounting and financial reporting application (Subsidiary Entity
Accounting System, SEAS) for entities below the district level. Further to a model initially
piloted in Kigali, the broader pilot phase targeting all 416 sectors (sub-districts) was rolled-out in
December 2013. As of April 2014, 88 of the 416 sectors (21 percent) had completed the pilot. An
initial assessment of implementation experience indicated substantial success in five out of seven
districts 19. As of June 2014, all 181 sectors of 14 districts had piloted the SEAS, covering 40% of
all sectors.

39.    Table 4 provides the review results of the roll-out in the 181 sectors, with performance
scores on PFM capacity improvements. As shown in Table 4, 96% of the sectors in 14 districts
were able to submit annual financial reports to their districts.

Table 4: SEAS Performance by Sectors and Districts
 District                    No. of sectors              Sectors that captured all data and        # of Sectors that submitted
               District Name
  rank                        using SEAS                   reconciled up to June 2014.              annual report to District
    1        KAMONYI               12                                    12                                     12
    2        NYANZA                10                                    10                                     10
    3        RUBAVU                12                                    12                                     12
    4        RUHANGO                9                                     9                                      9
    5        RULINDO               17                                    17                                     17
    6        RWAMAGANA             14                                    14                                     14
    7        KICUKIRO              10                                    10                                     10
    8        GATSIBO               14                                    14                                     14
    9        NYARUGENGE            10                                    10                                      9
   10        BURERA                17                                    16                                     16
   11        GASABO                15                                    14                                     14
   12        KARONGI               13                                    12                                     12
   13        RUTSIRO               13                                    12                                     12
   14        MUSANZE               15                                    13                                     12
         Total Sectors            181                                   175                                    173
           Average performance %                                         97                                     96
Source: MINECOFIN, “SEAS Kick-off sessions Review”. October 2014




19
   The positive assessments of the pilot phase led the Government to include the roll-out of SEAS as a DLI in the PforR
Operation, committing to the share of the sub-districts using the simplified accounting and financial reporting application at 60%
in 2015/16; and 80% in 2016/17




                                                               15
40.     The roll-out of SEAS is essential in ensuring that decentralized PFM systems are able to
track and report on funding down on service delivery areas, ultimately with a view to a revised
IFMIS being used for this purpose. In addition to the SEAS project, other initiatives and systems
have been launched to improve the availability and transparency of resources allocated to sub-
national entities. The availability and transparency of central government transfers to subnational
entities is a key concern of the Government. At the end of the fiscal year, MINECOFIN issues
the earmarked transfer guidelines for the following year. These guidelines are designed to guide
the decentralized entities in the implementation of earmarked transfers from the central
government, by providing the amounts and the terms under which the earmarked funds are
allocated, transferred, spent and accounted for between the parties involved 20. Improving the
earmarked transfers systems have empowered the service delivery units. In the Education Sector,
as an example, the capitation grant to public schools and school feeding funds are visible to all
units, with explanations on which expense items are covered and by which amount. Furthermore,
earlier on, there have been delays in releasing funds, which affected the services by the schools.
The new transfer systems allow the funds to move directly from the national treasury to schools.
With improved transfer systems in place, the earmarked grants to frontline services have
increased in recent years. In the health sector, this includes grants for improving geographical
access to health services; support to community health insurance; and funding of drugs and
vaccination services as being decentralized to district hospitals. Table 5 provides the overall
trends in increased earmarked funds in the two sectors.

Table 5: Earmarked Funds Released to Service Delivery Units in Education and Health in FY
2011/12 and FY2013/14. Billion Rwf
Sector                                              FY 2011/12                      FY 2013/14
Education                                              16.4                            21.8
Health                                                  2.9                             5.4
     Source: MINECOFIN Consolidated earmarked transfers for districts

41.     In addition to funding from earmarked transfers, the Local Decentralised Administrative
Entities Development Agency-LODA has been the interface for some donors who directly
support Districts outside the treasury system. Also, the Development Assistance database (DAD)
platform is used to fill the gap in information about resources available at sub-national levels.

42.     Two Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS) have been undertaken since the most recent
PEFA assessment was prepared in 2010. The findings in the PETS on the “Vision 2020
Umurenge Programme” are described in paragraph 57, and the main results of the Education
PETS are presented in Box 1. Both PETS strongly indicate that an assessment of the PEFA PI-23
indicator would result in a rating of “C” or higher.

43.    In summary, the roll-out of the SEAS; the improved framework and guidelines on
earmarked transfers to service delivery units (covering 80-85% of their budget); the capture of
donor funds flowing directly to the districts and to service delivery units, and the findings in the
two Public Expenditures Tracking Surveys indicate, that the program objective is substantially



20
     MINECOFIN, “2014-2015 Districts Earmarked Transfers Guidelines”, April 2014.




                                                            16
achieved. 21 As mentioned earlier, the PEFA exercise was delayed, due to change in the PEFA
framework and measurement. Once undertaken, the PEFA most likely will result in a scoring of
“C” or higher on the PI-23 indicator.

Box 1: Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) in Education – Rwanda Transparency
International
In a survey published in March 2012, the Rwanda Transparency International found, inter alia, that,
       •    “A total of Rwf 7.3 billion that was requested by Districts for Districts Schools have been received as
            capitation grant by the latter”
       •    “Desk research indicates that there is no difference between the Capitation Grant provided by the
            Ministerial order and no leakage between the amount disbursed by the Ministry of Finance and what is
            received by Districts Schools per pupil and per teacher”
       •    “A very high level of awareness of all categories of respondents with regard to the fact that the Government
            provides Capitation Grant, i.e., 98.8% of teachers, 98.4% of parents, and 91% of pupils are aware of this”
       •    “The lack of leakage is due to the MINECOFIN’s good public expenditure policy of transferring the
            capitation grant directly to the individual accounts of the school without transitioning through Districts
            accounts”
The survey also confirmed the need for strengthening PFM capacity, such as “inaccurate and incomplete recording
of transactions”; “the financial reporting format used by schools is not uniform”; and “limited knowledge of
tendering procedures by some head teachers” and improvement in oversight on how the funds are used at the school
level.


Policy Area 3: Improving Government Accountability and Transparency to Citizens

44.     This policy area supported the part of the PDO related to improved accountability and
transparency to citizens as fundamental elements of sustained performance results in public
service delivery. It was to help achieve the Government’s aims to improve citizen participation
in the district budgetary process and in formulation of the Imihigo activities 22. The strength of
these participatory mechanisms on service delivery performance is strongly determined by the
degree to which citizens have access to public information and are empowered to use that
information to influence public decision-making and demand accountability at the subnational
levels.

45.     During the 2013/14, the Government continued to demonstrate its commitment to the
“Improving Government Accountability and Transparency to Citizens” by putting in place
supporting regulations and mechanisms to sustain the implementation of the prior action, Access
to Information Law. In terms of regulations, the Law no. 42/2013 of 16/06/2013, establishing
Rwanda Broadcasting Agency and determining its mission, organization and functioning, has
been gazetted. Five ministerial orders determining modalities for the implementation of the
Access to Information law have been adopted and published in Official Gazette no. 03 of
13/01/2014. These ministerial orders are: (i) ministerial order no. 005/07.01/13 of 19/12/2013


21
   Scoring a “C” on PI-23 requires, under the PEFA framework that “special surveys undertaken within the last 3 years have
demonstrated the level of resources received in cash and in kind by either primary schools or primary health clinics covering a
significant part of the country OR by primary service delivery units at local community level in several other sectors”.
22
     See footnote 10.




                                                               17
determining which information could destabilize national security; (ii) ministerial order no.
006/07.01/13 of 19/12/2013 determining in details the information to disclosed; (iii) ministerial
order no. 007/07.01/13 of 19/12/2013 determining the time limit for the provision of information
or explanation of not providing it; (iv) ministerial order no. 008/07.01/13 of 19/12/2013
determining the procedure of charges of fees related to access to information; and (v) ministerial
order no. 009/07.01/13 of 19/12/2013 determining private organs to which the Law relating to
access to information applies. A number of additional activities were undertaken to ensure the
implementation of the Law. There were series of awareness campaigns conducted by the office
of the Ombudsman, and media literacy campaigns by the Rwanda Governance Board. The media
and the citizens are aware of the law. According to Rwanda Governance Board, in the first round
of implementation, primarily the media and in particular journalists, have increasingly used the
improved access to information to demand information from government entities.

46.     As regards citizens’ participation, the annual Citizen Score Card, which was supported in
the 2nd PRSF series as a means of increasing citizen voice in service delivery, focuses on four
areas: (a) citizen participation in inspection of service and requesting for accountability; (b)
citizen participation in the budget process at district level; (c) citizen participation in the district
development plans and (d) citizen participation in the district performance contracting (See
Figure 1). These channels of participation are re-enforced by district initiatives such as Open
Days, Citizen’s Charter, Governance Month, and Accountability Days. As an example, the
Governance Month initiative generated more than 7,000 queries from the citizens in its initial
year. As appears from Figure 1, in 2013, a majority of citizens participated in the areas they most
closely relate to - the Imihigo activities, and the inspection of services and demand for
accountability; while the overall participation is lower on the budget preparation and the districts
development plans. The share of women as compared to men is higher on all four areas.

47.      Regarding the specific indicators used to measure the outcome on this policy area, as
evidenced in Figure 1, the target value was exceeded on all indicators. First, on the participation
in the budget process, the overall citizen participation was 29% in comparison to the target of
20%. The share of women out of the total number of citizens who participated was 52%, against
target value of 19%. The visit by the ICR mission to the Gakenke district confirmed this picture,
with women making up the majority of citizens participating in the budgetary process. With a
view to support women’s participation, all districts used a “Gender Sensitivity” citizens guide
during planning and budgeting for FY 2013-14. Second, on the participation of citizens in
preparing the District Performance Contract (Imihigo), the overall citizen participation was 72%
in comparison to the target of 30%. The share of women out of the total number of citizens who
participated was 52%, against target value of 28%. For further details, please refer to Figure 1.
The increase in Imihigo participation was in particularly spurred by the introduction of Imihigo
activities at the household level in the villages.




                                                  18
Figure 1. Citizens’ participation in Four Areas of District’s Administration in 2013/14


                                                                        Male          Female               Total
                                                            72




                             53                                                                                      53
                                                                                                                                                     51

                                                                                                                                                                    42
                                                      38
                                                 34                                                   31
              29        28                                                                                      28
                   25                                                                                      25                                  26
                                                                                                                                          24                   23
                                                                        20                                                                                20
                                            18                                                                                      17
                                                                                                16
      14 15                                                                                15
                                       10                        9 11                 8
                                                                                                                               10
                                   7                                                                                       7                                                    7
                                                                                  5
                                                                              3                                                                                           3 4


        Yes             No        Don't know          Yes         No         Don't know         Yes             No        Don't know           Yes             No        Don't know
      Citizens participation in preparing Citizens participation in preparing               Citizens participation in in the             Citizens participation in inspection of
     the District Budget (District Council) the District performance contracts                District Development Plan                        Services and requesting for
                                                          ( ihi )                                                                                              bili
Source: RGB. Database compiled for the 2013 Rwanda Citizen’s Scorecard 2013

Policy Area 4: Enhanced Local Government Fiduciary Accountability

48.     The Operation supported policy changes towards a better clarification of institutional
roles and responsibilities for service delivery, which requires improved fiduciary accountability
through the sub national PFM system at and below the District level. The Operation also
supported increased sub-national capacity and accountability, in support of improving the quality
of service delivery. The Audit Committees constitute a core element of the fiduciary
accountability framework, but although the Audit Committees were established in all 30 Districts
in June 2011, none of the districts had received a “qualified audit” 23 report as of FY2011/12. The
OAG also expressed serious concerns over persistent failure to implement prior years audit
recommendations. 24

49.     The Operation supported initiatives to follow up on recommendations from the District’s
Audit Committees, by issuing communication to the districts on the main areas for
improvements. This includes the implementation of audit queries (e.g. weak accounting and
financial reporting systems) to ensure that public funds are used for the intended purposes in an
efficient and effective manner and they contribute positively to improved service delivery and
local governments’ fiduciary accountability. In July 2012 MINECOFIN published a model audit


23
   A qualified audit indicates that ‘except for the matters raised, proper books of account have been maintained and the financial
statements do give a true and fair view of the state’ based on audit opinion of the Auditor General.
24
  Required by Article 74 of Organic Law on State Finances and Property 2006 and Ministerial Instructions no. 004/09/10/MIN
of 01/10/2009 for Audit Committees




                                                                                          19
committee charter, followed by a Handbook in 2013 that provides broad guidelines that can be
used by audit committees in the Districts and elsewhere in public sector. All 30 district councils
have had audit committees since 2011, and as of December 2013, 83 percent of them were
submitting reports to the District Councils. Since the 2011, the districts have been able to better
implement prior years’ recommendations from the Auditor General. The districts implemented
63% and 67% of the recommendations in 2012 and 2013, respectively, as seen against 46% in
2011. 25 A study in 2013 by the Transparency International in Rwanda found, however, that
continued information and training of the members of the District Councils of the role and
mandates of the Audit Committee may be needed going forward. 26

50.     Improvements in the audit opinions on the districts’ financial statements are expected as
a consequence of the work on the audit committees, including implementation of earlier year’s
audit recommendations. With a baseline of “zero” in 2011/2012, three Districts received a
“qualified” audit opinion for their financial statements in FY2012/13. 27 This makes strong
progress towards the achievement of the outcome target of having 5 districts with qualified
(except for) audit opinion in FY2013/14. 28 These achievements were being supported throughout
2013/14 by continuous capacity building of Council Committees and staff involved in
accounting and financial reporting.




25
     Reports of the Auditor General of State Finances for the years ending 2012 and 2013.
26 “
   Analysis of the involvement of District Councils in ensuring effective financial management of District’s resources”
Transparency International Rwanda, September 2013
27
     District with except for are: Ruhango, Gakenke and Kamonyi
28
  MINECOFIN confirmed this assessment during the ICR mission. The OAG audits all subnational government entities on a
yearly basis and issues the results of the audit as part of the Annual Report presented to Parliament, under Volume III. The OAG
report is presented to the Parliament 9 months after the closing of the related financial year.




                                                                20
Table 6: Summary on Prior Actions, PDO and Key Outcome Indicators, by Policy Area
                                                                                             Program       Program                               Actual (2013/14)
                       Prior Action                             Outcome Indicator
                                                                                             baseline       Target
                                                            Policy Area 1: Strengthened Policy Framework for Decentralization
1) The Recipient has approved a new decentralization           Percentage of staff         0%           70%             79.2%. Target achieved by 100%
policy which clarifies the roles and responsibilities of       positions filled in         (2012/13)
central and local government                                   revised organizational
                                                               structures
2) The Recipient has published in the Official Gazette the Fees and charges                Rwf 134      12%             Target achieved by 100%. Collections increased from Rwf 13.9
Presidential Order establishing the list of fees and other     collected by districts      million      increase        billion in 2012 (calendar year) to Rwf18.5 billion in 2013/14
charges levied by decentralized entities and the                                           (2012)       from the        (fiscal year). Baseline adjusted, based on district’s financial
applicable thresholds                                                                                   program         reports audited by OAG.
                                                                                                        baseline
                                                  Policy Area 2: Capacity Development for Quality Service Delivery by Local Governments
3) The Recipient has adopted twenty eight (28) District         PEFA PI-23                 D            C               Program objective substantially achieved. PEFA assessment
capacity building plans approved by the District Councils (availability of                 (2010)                       has been delayed due to change in PEFA framework and
                                                               information on resource                                  measurements. Significant PFM capacity building; a new
                                                               received by service                                      earmarked transfer framework for service delivery units in
                                                               delivery unit)                                           place; and two PETS strongly indicate, that the upcoming
                                                                                                                        PEFA assessment most likely will result in a “C” rating.
                                                    Policy Area 3: Improving Government Accountability and Transparency to Citizens
4) The Recipient has published in the Official Gazette a       % of citizens who           11%          20%             29% - Target achieved by 100%
new Access to Information Law which provides for the           participate in the district (10%)        (19%)           (52%) – Target achieved by 100%
public’s right to information (Access to Information Law       budgetary process (o/w       (2010)                      (2013)
was Gazetted in March 2013)                                    women)
                                                               % of citizens who           24%          30%             72% - Target achieved by 100%
                                                               participate in the          (22%)        (28%)           (52%) – Target achieved by 100%
                                                               formulation of Imihigo      (2010)                       (2013)
                                                               activities (o/w women)
                                                           Policy Area 4: Enhanced Local Government Fiduciary Accountability
5) The Recipient has reviewed twenty five (25) District        The number of districts     0            5 districts     Program objective substantially achieved. The outcome targets
Audit Committee reports of 2012 and issued                     with qualified audit 29     (2011/12)    (17%)           for 2013/14 are being evaluated by the Office of Auditor
communication to the Districts on the main areas for                                                                    General in March 2015. With three districts achieving
follow up (By December 2012, twenty five District Audit                                                                 “qualified opinion” in 2012/13, in combination with the
Committees had held quarterly meetings and reported to                                                                  activities undertaken by the Government, the districts were on
their respective District Councils)                                                                                     track to achieving the outcome targets in 2013/14.




29
   The number of districts in which ‘except for the matters raised, proper books of account have been maintained and the financial statements do give a true and fair view of the state’
based on audit opinion of the Auditor General.



                                                                                           21
3.3. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

51.    The ICR rates the overall achievement of the development outcomes as Satisfactory. The
Relevance of Objectives, the Design, and the Implementation were rated Highly Satisfactory,
and the achievements towards the program objectives and hence the important steps taken to
improve the quality of decentralized service delivery was rated Satisfactory. The overall
improvements in the policy framework, the subnational capacity, including PFM, and
transparency and accountability to citizens were significant over the course of the Operation.

52.     Out of the six development outcome indicators, four indicators were fully achieved, while
program objectives were substantially met on areas covered by those two indicators not yet being
evaluated. Of the four indicators fully achieved, the two on policy area #1 – “filling staff
positions” and “increased revenues on fees and charges” were results of the Government specific
steps to clarify the roles and responsibilities for the districts and the framework on fees and
charges, which are of outmost importance to improving accessibility and quality of decentralized
service delivery. The full achievement of the other two indicators related to transparency and
accountability (including the targets on women participation) witness the progress on citizens’
voice and involvement in decision-making related to decentralized service delivery. The
Government took specific steps to support an increase in the participation of women. As regards
the two indicators not yet evaluated, on the “number of districts with qualified audit” the ICR
finds the program objectives substantially met due to the progress observed by the OAG for
FY2012-13, and the technical PFM activities undertaken during the Operation. The districts
seem on track to meet the target level in 2013/14. Finally, on the second outcome indicator not
yet evaluated – a PEFA score of “C” on information on financial resources to frontline units --
the ICR finds the program objective substantially met, with reference to the implementation of
the SEAS roll-out in line with expectations in the Program Document; the new framework on
earmarked transfers to the districts; and the two PETS undertaken since the most recent PEFA
assessment took place. The ICR findings point to a most likely score of “C” or higher” on this
indicator once the PEFA assessment will be prepared. The PEFA assessment was delayed, due to
changes in the PEFA framework and measurements.

3.4. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53.     The analysis of poverty and social implications found that the Operation has no
significant impacts on distribution. Improved service delivery at decentralized levels is thought
to benefit all segments of the population. As poor households are more dependent on public
services which currently lack quality (for instance public education), the Operation can be
thought to benefit the poor more than the wealthier households.

54.    Support in the first policy area, strengthening policy framework for decentralization, is
thought to have a positive impact on poverty reduction. Through an improved clarity on roles
and responsibilities between the central and local governments, service delivery and the
administrative capacity at the local government level improves. Moreover, the new and clearer



                                               22
framework of fees and other charges has a pro-poor impact as it limits the number of fees and
charges levied by local government by introducing a ‘closed list’ system and establishes
maximum allowable limits on the associated rates, ensuring they are more proportionate to the
services rendered.

55.      Support to capacity development for quality service delivery is thought to have a positive
impact on all segments of the population. As regards improved information on resources to
service delivery units or local programs, the Operation would have a pro-poor impact, since poor
people are benefitting from public services and programs 30 With an improved capacity of
institutions and local civil servants, the quality of services is high and positively impacts all users
of those services.

56.     Improved government transparency and accountability to citizens is key to improve
service delivery. Through the increased availability of quality public information and an
improved access to the information, beneficiaries are now better placed to proactively approach
the Government (both central and local) and make their demands for improved services heard, as
well as participate in defining and implementing local development plans.

57.     Enhanced local government fiduciary accountability has an indirect positive impact on
poverty reduction over the medium- to long-term. The policy action, by improving local
government compliance with PFM laws and procedures, would ultimately improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of public funds; thereby ensuring decentralized entities provide better services
for a given budget.

58.     Two of the Outcome indicators focused on improving gender-related aspects of citizens’
participation. Both targets were met, indicating higher share of women’s participation in the
budget preparation and the Imihigo preparation, due to interventions under this Operation.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

59.    Institutional strengthening and capacity building were supported in this Operation. The
Operation supported the approval of the decentralization policy that clarified roles and
responsibilities of central and local government. This is an institutional strengthening that was
important to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of local governments by eliminating
duplication of efforts. In addition, the Bank supported the government’s initiative to improve
administrative capacity for the delivery of quality services by local governments, particularly in
the four top priority areas of human resource management, planning, M&E, and PFM. These
plans constitute an important milestone for the capacity building efforts because they are: (i)
bottom-up, owned by the Districts and based on a holistic diagnostic tool, and move Rwanda



30
  In March 2014, the RW Transparency International prepared a PETS on the Vision 2020 Umurenge Programme which
contribute to reduction of extreme poverty, through employment on community projects, cash transfers, and minor financial
services. Amongst the findings, the report mentions that above 70% of beneficiaries were aware of eligibility criteria on
entitlements; 84% of beneficiaries felt the transparency in selecting and approving beneficiaries sufficiently good; and
“compliance in fund requests, disbursement and provision to beneficiaries stands very high (e.g. 5 sectors out of 6 sectors
examined under DS component)” (p 12).




                                                              23
from the previously top-down and often uncoordinated interventions of the past decade, and (ii)
being coordinated with District Development Plans (DDPs) that form part of the EDPRS 2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

60.    This subsection is not applicable because there were no other unintended outcomes and
impacts.

3.5. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

61.   This subsection is not applicable because there were no beneficiary survey or stakeholder
workshops.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

62.    While designing the Operation, risks to development outcome were expected to arise
from (i) political risks, (ii) macroeconomic risks, (iii) stakeholder risks, (iv) program specific
risks and (v) sustainability risks. The design of the proposed program and successful
implementation helped mitigate some of these risks with moderate risks to sustainability.

 •    As noted above the publication of a UN report alleging Government involvement in the
      DRC and the reaction of development partners by suspending or delaying planned budget
      support to Rwanda was a significant political risk that could have undermined the operation
      and its development outcomes if the operation had been opposed by the key partners. The
      choice of the area of support (i.e. decentralization and issues of transparency,
      accountability and participation) which was supported by most development partners
      helped mitigate this risk. Also peace talks to resolve the situation in DRC and Rwanda’s
      acceptance to sign the regional peace framework agreements significantly led to changing
      attitudes. The World Bank was also able to tackle upfront some of the concerns that major
      development partners in Rwanda had expressed.
 •    The macroeconomic risks did not directly affect the operation but provided the context
      within which the operation became more urgent. The speed of preparation and delivery to
      the Board, as well as the one tranche disbursement of the DPO were driven by the need to
      help mitigate the effects of the budget shortfall by bridging some the financing gap that
      could have undermined the funding of the government program and the achievement of the
      outcomes.
 •    One program risk to achieving the development outcomes was that it was a single DPO to
      support a decentralization program that is long term. There was risk of sustainability of the
      outcomes achieved under the program. A key mitigating factor was that the Bank had also
      started initial discussions and preparation for Public Sector Governance Program-for-
      Results operation, which partly supports fiscal decentralization. Other development
      partners also support decentralization.
 •    Risks to sustainability of outcomes: As noted above, the Government and DPs have
      reactivated dialogue and in the form of the Development Partners Coordination Group


                                                24
      (DPCG). The tensions that led to the suspension of budget support and the consequences on
      gaps in the budget has largely been addressed. Even though general budget support has not
      resumed. A number of DPs has continued with sector budget support, including support to
      decentralization. The Bank funded Public Sector Governance Program-for-Results
      operation includes support to fiscal decentralization. The risks to sustainability of outcome
      are thus moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly satisfactory

63.      The Bank’s overall performance in ensuring quality at entry was highly satisfactory. The
structural and macro-economic framework and context is appropriate. Under extreme time
constraints - the operation was prepared in record time of about 12 weeks from concept to Board
approval - the Bank managed to identify and prepare a highly successful operation, which was
underpinned by comprehensive analytical work and lessons learned from the previous operations
(i.e., advancing Government-owned reforms, providing substantial financing and fostering better
donor coordination). The analytical works informed the preparation for Government medium-
term development strategy, i.e., the EDPRS. The preparation benefitted from excellent
collaboration across the Bank, as well as extensive consultations and collaboration with internal
as well as external stakeholders took place over a very short period of time. The speed of
preparation responded to the Government’s need for finance, while maximizing opportunities for
dialogue with government and collaboration within the Bank was remarkable. The Bank’s effort
to align the Government’s own M&E systems (e.g., JSRs) with the Operation’s results
framework and close collaboration and coordination with Development Partners on the ground
proved effective. Furthermore, the Bank staff continued to participate in the Sector Working
Groups and took a leading role in translating the EDPRS objectives into prior actions.
Identification of the four policy areas reflected the government priorities and the outcome targets
were established by taking into account the government’s capacity in these areas.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

64.    The Government and development partners (including the Bank) undertook annual JSRs
to monitor progress and set priorities at the sectoral level. The review is based on the indicator
and policy action. The review process provided the Bank an opportunity to closely monitor
reform progress and to address key issues in coordination with the Government and
Development Partners. Despite the unavailability of data on some of indicators, this close
supervision process, as well as continuous implementation support and engagement enabled the
Bank to monitor progress in these indicators. The quality of supervision and the continuous
dialogue enabled the Bank to prepare with the Government in another record time the Public
Sector Governance Program-for-Results operation, which builds on the achievements of this
DPO.


                                                25
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

65.     Consistent with the ICR guidelines, the overall Bank performance is rated Highly
Satisfactory, when taking into account the highly satisfactory Bank performance in ensuring
quality at entry and the highly satisfactory performance in quality of supervision.

5.2. Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

66.      The government implemented all prior actions and undertook a very broad range of
activities over the course of one year, towards achieving the program objectives, including the
targets on the Outcome indicators. As mentioned earlier, the government ownership, leadership
and strong commitment to reforms aimed at improving the quality of decentralized service
delivery were evidenced by these efforts. The monitoring and evaluation arrangements relied on
Government arrangements with the aim of strengthening Government capacity and institutions.
As previously noted, the Government has developed in close collaboration with development
partners, including the Bank, a results and performance framework integrated into the planning
and budgeting processes for monitoring the EDPRS. A strong and trustful collaboration between
the Government and development partners were in place during this Operation and during
implementation. Despite the initial difficult circumstances, the Government remained focused on
results and ready to work with the Bank and take measures to ease the cause of tensions with
development partners. The remarkable achievement of all the prior actions by appraisal testifies
to the Government’s readiness and performance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: N/A

67.     According to harmonized evaluation criteria guidelines for the ICR, in situations where
the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, particularly for development
policy lending operations, only an overall rating is necessary.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

68.    There are a number of lessons to learn from this Operation, especially from the context to
design and implementation.
69.     Difficult context and circumstances provided opportunities for stakeholders to cooperate
and think ‘outside the box’ on what is politically feasible. The Operation was designed in a
difficult context when most development partners had either suspended and/or delayed their
support, especially general budget support including the Bank’s PRSF9 (US$125 million


                                               26
scheduled to be disbursed in Q3 2012). General budget support had provided a platform for the
Bank and other donors to engage government in policy dialogue on cross cutting governance
issues under the BSHG. The suspension of general budget support meant that the space for
dialogue collapsed. In this difficult context, stakeholders were concerned about possible negative
macroeconomic and social consequences of the suspension of aid. A DPO focusing on
decentralization and service delivery was acceptable and supported by most development
partners. For example, during the preparation of the Operation, some development partners were
concerned to directly disburse un-earmarked funds to the treasury single account. Against this
concern, the Letter of Development Policy of the Government identified expenditure items to be
funded by the Operation.

70.     Understanding the political economy context of the operation was critical: This operation
demonstrates the need to understand and navigate the political economy context. The Bank had
to understand and respond to the political sensitivities surrounding the UN report and consequent
withdrawal of general budget support. At the same time it had to maintain entry points for
dialogue with the Government and keep DPs on board by supporting an area of governance that
most DPs and stakeholders will not oppose but will concur. The Bank’s operational choice and
decision was thus strategic in continuing to engage with the Government on policy dialogue and
rally support of development partners to the Operation. The Bank seems to have understood the
political economy context and learned to handle the sensitive political issues and maintain
dialogue with development partners and the Government. The key lesson here is that political
economy matters and even in difficult circumstances such as suspension of general budget
support to a country, there is still room for engagement and continued dialogue. In order to make
this happen, teams have to be sensitive to the political context and respond innovatively on how
and when to engage with clients. The continued engagement and dialogue with clients and key
stakeholders, even in difficult circumstances is crucial for achieving the goals of the Bank.

71.    Leveraging cooperation within the World Bank to ensure timely client responsiveness:
The operation was prepared in record time of about 12 weeks from concept to Board approval.
This was largely made possible through the support and coordination of different units of the
Bank – various parts of PREM, the Social Protection sector, AFTOS, OPCS and the CMU. The
collaboration was also expressed by the preparation being led by a TTL and two co-TTL to
ensure the diversity of sector expertise represented at the level of TTL. The speed of preparation
to respond to the Government’s need for finance, while maximizing opportunities for dialogue
with government and collaboration within the Bank was remarkable. The main lesson is here the
need/value of team work and collaboration across different units of the Bank to be able to
respond in a timely fashion to client needs.

72.      Government commitment and leadership as a critical success factor. This Operation
illustrated the importance of government commitment and leadership as critical ingredients for
success. The Operation was aligned with the government’s strategy and program on
decentralization, though the Operation was not specifically included in the Bank’s CAS
formulated in 2008. Rwanda has exercised a culture of performance contracts (Imihigo) and
result-based development management. It has a strong track record to meet agreed targets. The
good track record may have given confidence to the Bank team that sustainability would be
assured even with a stand-alone DPO. In most other contexts, it would have been too risky go for
a single tranche DPO on the area of decentralization which is clearly programmatic in nature.


                                               27
Thus a combination of leadership and commitment and the track record of result-based
development management were critical success factors.

73.     Setting demanding targets with flexibility. The Operation used well-defined and precise
metrics to assess enhancements in the framework on decentralized service delivery, subnational
capacity and participation, and the indicators were applied with high requirements on the
Government’s actions and commitment. As evidenced in this Operation, significant progress was
achieved, while also acknowledging, as similar to the vast majority of countries implementing
decentralization reforms, the needs for adjustments identified during the course of the Operation.
In Rwanda, further adjustments to sectoral decentralization, including refinement of functional
allocation of responsibilities across levels of government, are core elements of the
Decentralization Sector Strategic Plan for FY 2013/14-2017/18 and onwards. On the
improvements in revenues from fees and charges, the Government decided in December 2013 to
establish more ambitious targets than under this Operation, by an initiative to centralize in the
Rwanda Revenue Authority, the collection of sub-national taxes, fees and charges, while also
helping districts to build capacity in this area.

74.     Strategic choice of DPO to keep the door open for engagement on governance: The
difficult circumstances under which the Bank had to make a quick decision on which financing
instrument to use are informative. With the collapse of the space for dialogue under general
budget support, there was an urgent need to keep the dialogue going; the choice was between
having a DPO or no operation on governance. Under normal circumstances, a stand-alone DPO
to support a decentralization program would not be appropriate, since implementation stretches
over a medium to long term period. Under the complex political environment surrounding the
preparation of the DPO, and demand from the Government to prepare for the Operation within a
few months, the Bank management made a decision to go for the stand-alone DPO. The choice
was strategic to open the space for dialogue on cross cutting governance issues within
decentralization, including policy framework; accountability and transparency; and PFM
capacity building. The strategy paid off in keeping the dialogue open, leading also to the Public
Sector Governance PforR operation (approved by the Board in October 2014) which has national
and subnational PFM as key elements.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

75.    The Borrower’s comments on the program and on the ICR are included in Annex 2

(b) Cofinanciers

76.    This subsection is not applicable for the ICR. The program did not have cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

77.    This subsection is not applicable for the ICR.




                                               28
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
             Names                               Title                   Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Yoichiro Ishihara                Senior Economist                       AFTP2   Task team leader
Tessa MacArthur                  Senior Governance Specialist           AFTP2   Co-Task Team Leader
Alex Kamurase                    Senior Social Protection Specialist    AFTSE   Co-Task Team Leader
Wolfgang Fengler                 Lead Economist                         AFTP2
Peace Niyibizi                   Economist                              AFTP2
Geoff Handley                    Consultant                             AFTP2
Winston Percy Onipede Cole       Sr. Financial Management Specialist    AFTME
Toru Nishiuchi                   Consultant                             AFTP2
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza        Senior Counsel                         LEGAM
Hassine Hedda                    Financial Officer                      CTRLA
Tom Bundervoet                   ET Consultant                          AFTP2
Marco Hernandez                  Economist                              AFTP1
Paolo Zacchia                    Lead Economist                         AFTP2
Birgit Hansl                     Senior Economist                       ECSP2   Peer reviewer
Khwima Nthara                    Senior Economist                       EASPT   Peer reviewer
Yasuhiko Matsuda                 Senior Public Sector Specialist        EASPW   Peer reviewer
Supervision --
Yoichiro Ishihara                          Senior Economist               Task team leader
Peace Aimee NIYIBIZI                       Consultant



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage
                  No. of staff weeks USD Thousands (including travel and consultant costs)
   Lending
     FY13               19.87                                 111,887
     FY14                 0                                      0
    Total:              19.87                                 111,887
Supervision/ICR
     FY13                  0                                    0
     FY14                 4.77                                36,431
     FY15                 5.21                                37,932
    Total:                9.98                                74,363




                                                   29
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR
The Government of Rwanda (the Government) appreciates this opportunity to express our views
on the implementation of the Quality of Decentralized Service Delivery Support DPO. We note
that Rwanda’s economy has recorded strong growth (exceeding 7% on average) in the last 3
years, although 2013 growth decelerated to below 5% mainly due to the lagged effect of the aid
shortfall in 2012. While Rwanda has made significant development progress in the past decade,
the country remains one of the poorest in the world with 45% of the population below the
poverty line and 24% extremely poor. Improving the delivery of basic services to the poor,
including health, education and water among others, is fundamental for Rwanda to address its
large development challenges. Furthermore, improving service delivery – and making it more
responsive and accountable to citizens' needs through decentralization – is a key priority of the
second Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS 2).
When the Government requested this Operation, many of Rwanda's social achievements were at
risk as a result of a shortfall in donor budget support equivalent to approximately 11% of the
budget in the first half of FY2012/13. Given the importance of expenditures on poverty reduction,
service delivery as well as macroeconomic stability, the Government believed that the aid
shortfall would lead to setbacks of development progress made. To encounter the situation, we
attempted to protect our poverty reduction/service delivery expenditures by decelerating capital
expenditures and increasing domestic borrowing. In addition, a list of earmarked poverty
reduction and service delivery expenditures were identified, where the budget execution was
subject to additional financing in FY2012/13.
The Government thus much welcomed this Operation as very timely and much helpful, since the
financing (US$50 million) allowed for the execution of 90% of the human and social
development programs through earmarked transfers from the central government to districts. The
earmarked transfers from the central government to districts accounted for more than two thirds
of districts' revenues and were central to improving service delivery at the local government level.
In this perspective, this Operation was very timely and much helpful.
An equally important point is that the Operation helped the Government accelerate key policy
reforms mainly in the area of decentralization. Decentralization has been pursued by the
Government since 2000, and accelerated since 2006, as one important means of promoting
national unity, good governance, better and more accountable service delivery, and national
development. Sub-national district and sub-district governments have become responsible for
planning, coordinating – working through sub-district entities – and implementing the provision
of a large and increasing number of basic services, ranging from health and education, to water,
sanitation, and agricultural development. The early steps of the Government's decentralization
program coincided with rapid improvements in access to public services in Rwanda, especially in
rural areas, where 98% of the poor live. For example, the use of public primary education by
poor rural households increased from 68% in 2006 to 75% in 2011, while access to health
centers increased from 63% in 2006 to 81% in 2011. Despite these dramatic improvements in
access to public services, much remained to be done, both in improving the quality of service
delivery and, relatedly, its responsiveness to local priorities and local feedback. This could only
be achieved by a deepening of the decentralization framework in Rwanda, which would help to
improve service delivery.



                                                30
During the preparation of the Operation, the Government was (i) reforming policy framework of
decentralization; (ii) enhancing capacity building at the district level; (iii) formulating a legal
framework for transparency; and (iv) improving public financial management at the district level.
The Government notes that the Operation helped the Government accelerating these reform areas.
Overall, the Government views that the Operation was thoughtfully designed to tackle critical
issues that confronted Rwanda supported by a solid analytic foundation. The Operation was
designed with the following principles:

     • Relevant to the country’s development priorities;
     • Achievable in the expected timeframe in most cases; and
     • Consistent with the Bank’s CAS and the Government’s EDPRS 2.
The Operation sought to increase the Government’s capacity to deliver on its priorities. The
conditions for disbursement included prior actions (critical to the success of a Government’s
program) which the Government fulfilled satisfactorily.

Bank Performance
The Government commends the quality of dialogue with the Bank before and during the
Operation – the design, appraisal missions and the day-to-day business related to implementation.
The Bank reacted swiftly on our important, short-term needs, and significantly contributed to
policy discussions within the community of Development Partners as the design of the Operation
started in February 2013. The Government recognizes that the preparation of the Operation
benefited from close collaboration with other development partners and various stakeholders. As
the Government had difficulties in holding policy discussions with development partners, the
Government appreciates that the World Bank reconvened dialogues.
Overall, the Government views that Bank’s performance has been highly satisfactory with
regards to alignment with the EDPRS 2; engagement; valuable policy discussion and
performance; and mitigation of systematic risks which might have negatively affected poverty
reduction and service delivery through the economy. The Bank has also been catalytic mostly in
critical areas where Rwanda was in need of support including public sector capacity building,
strengthening PFM systems and importantly the government’s decentralization program to bring,
inter alia, governance and service delivery closer to its citizens and to improve accountability to
citizens. The Bank has offered relentlessly implementation support to the Government in the
delivery of the key programs. The Bank’s effort to align with the Government’s own M&E
systems (e.g., Joint Sector Reviews) with the Operation’s results framework and close
collaboration and coordination with Development Partners proved effective.

Government Performance (Borrower Performance)
The Government’s met all the prior actions and launched a range of actions and implementation
activities towards meeting the demanding program objectives over the course of one year. The
Government benefitted from its own strong capacity and knowledge on the decentralization
agenda. Furthermore, the design of the Operation was embedded in the decentralization reforms
and processes that the Government had been committed to for many years. Although the number
of services whose provision had been decentralized had grown rapidly during recent years, there



                                                31
was an urgent need to formally and clearly specify the different roles of different levels of
government in the provision of basic services. To this end, the Government adopted a new
decentralization policy with newly passed legislation and executive orders that clarified the
responsibilities of various levels of government in the provision of basic services. In addition, the
Government believed that strong accountability mechanisms would be fundamental to ensuring
that sub-national governments perform their functions in an efficient, effective and responsive
way. To that end, since the beginning of the decentralization process, the Government of
Rwanda placed a strong emphasis on creating mechanisms for the population to not only elect
local government officials, but also to be able to monitor and provide feedback on local
government activities. This was done by passing a new Access to Information Law, which served
to enhance public transparency and the accountability of the state (at all levels of Government) to
the citizens and by further initiatives to support participation and voice.
The success in implementation across the four policy components of the Operation is mainly
attributable to the Government’s strong ownership, commitment and leadership to the reform
process. Progress has also continued in relation to coordinating with development partners.
Rwanda stands out in enhancing aid effectiveness principles, particularly facilitating policy
dialogue and regular assessments on the performance of Government as well as development
partners. The strong and trustful collaboration between the Government and development
partners were in place during this Operation.
Conclusion
In closing, the Government of Rwanda expresses its gratitude to the World Bank for its
continued support to the development of Rwanda and reiterates its strong commitment to reduce
poverty and foster sustainable growth. The Government greatly appreciates the Operation’s
assistance in the implementation of its policy reform program.




                                                 32
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents
1.  Rwanda Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2009-2012, Report No. 44938-RW
2.  Rwanda Country Partnership Strategy (FY2014-2018)
3.  The Draft of Rwanda Citizens Report Card 2013
4.  Rwanda Citizens Report Card 2012
5.  Africa’s Future and the World Bank’s support to It
6.  Rwanda’s Official gazette no. 30 of July 28, 2014
7.  Rwanda’s Official gazette no. 02 of January 13, 2014
8.  MINECOFIN “SEAS Pilot Kick-off sessions review under Phase 1”., SmartFMS
    Coordinator, October 2014
9. World Bank Group, The PforR operation. PD and Technical Assessment
10. Transparency International Public Expenditure Tracking Survey in Vision 2020 Umurenge
    Programme (VUP), , Rwanda, March 2014
11. The Government of Rwanda, PFM Sector Strategic Plan FY2013/14–2017/18
12. The Government of Rwanda, Decentralization Sector Strategic Plan FY 2013/14-2017/18
13. The Government of Rwanda, Decentralization Action Plan 2013-17
14. The World Bank Group, Quality of Decentralized Service Delivery Support DPO.
15. MINECOFIN, “2014-2015 Districts Earmarked Transfers Guidelines”. April 2014
16. Decentralization Policy – 2013
17. Annual Evaluation of Imihigo – 2011/13
18. MINECOFIN, Macro Framework Public Dataset of June 2014.




                                            33
34
