                                                                                    77745
                                         Republic of Rwanda
                           Quality of Decentralized Service Delivery Support
                                     Development Policy Operation

                                      SUMMARY OF DISCUSSION∗

                                    Meeting of the Executive Directors

                                              May 14, 2013



       The Executive Directors approved the Quality of Decentralized Service Delivery Support
Development Policy Grant to the Republic of Rwanda in the amount of SDR33.4 million (US$50
million equivalent) on the terms and conditions set out in the President’s Memorandum
(IDA/R2013-0101).

       Directors commended the Government’s efforts, which began in 2000, to progressively
decentralize the provision of public services to local governments. They supported the
program’s objectives to clarify institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized service
delivery and to enhance public transparency, fiduciary accountability, and local government
capacity for improved access to quality services. Close collaboration and coordination with the
Bank’s development partners to support implementation was encouraged.

       Directors stressed the importance of strengthening governance, public financial
management including auditing, capacity building, voice and accountability, and monitoring and
evaluation of program outcomes. They emphasized the importance of private sector participation
in service delivery, and the need to enhance the quality of data for more effective results
monitoring. Several Directors took note of the commitments made by the Government of
Rwanda in its Letter of Development Policy to target specific spending on social development
programs at the district level, as supported through this operation.

       Several Directors stressed the importance of regional stability which will be the
underlying pre-requisite for long-term sustainable development both in the country and the
region. They noted that the World Bank is formulating a strategy to support economic
development and promote peace and stability in the Great Lakes region.

        Directors look forward to the discussion of the next Country Assistance Strategy which
will follow and build on the finalization of the Second Economic Development and Poverty
Reduction Strategy by the Government.




∗
    This Summary is not an approved record.
