 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14789

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 08/24/2015

                 Country: Rwanda
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                     Yes     No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P145114                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Quality Of                      Project Costs (US$M):                    50.0                46.5
                           Decentralized Service
                           Delivery Support
                           Developmen
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                     50.0                46.5
       Sector Board:       Public Sector                Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Governance
             Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 05/14/2013
                                                                 Closing Date:           06/30/2014            06/30/2014
         Sector(s):          Sub-national government administration (70%); Central government administration (30%)
         Theme(s):           Decentralization (45%); Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (35%);
                             Participation and civic engagement (10%); Administrative and civil service reform (5%);
                             Other public sector governance (5%)
Evaluator:                   Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
Aghassi Mkrtchyan            Clay Wescott             Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Program Document (PD) the operation’s objectives were: a) to support the Government to clarify
    institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized service delivery, and b) to enhance public transparency,
    fiduciary accountability, and local government capacity for improved access to quality services. (Program
    Summary, page v of Program Document (PD).

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    (i) Strengthening Policy Framework for Decentralization : The Government planned to address challenges in this
    area through a new decentralization policy, adopting local government structures with clear roles, responsibilities
    and functions, and issuing Prime Ministerial instructions on sectoral decentralization. This would build on a
    strengthened legal framework for subnational revenues, and the National Decentralization Sector Strategic Plan
    developed by the Decentralization Sector Working group.

    (ii) Capacity Development for Quality service Delivery by local Governments : This included elaborating and
    implementing five year district capacity building plans, using these plans as an input to the process of making
    recommendations for enhancing subnational human resources, and developing public financial management
    (PFM) systems capacity below the district level.

    (iii) Improving Government Accountability and Transparency to Citizens : This supported the Economic
    Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy II thematic pillar on accountable governance, including
    strengthening the context for civil society engagement with the state, building the capacity of civil society
    organizations to engage in policy formulation, and increasing access to information on district development
    priorities, citizen rights and responsibilities, budgets, service delivery charters, and citizen complaints.

    (iv) Enhancing Local Government Fiduciary Accountability : This aimed at improving fiduciary accountability
    through the sub-national PFM system at and below the district level covering subsidiary entities including schools
    and health centers. It was expected that the work of district level audit committees and other measures would
    allow local services to be more responsive to local needs, and ensure more efficient and effective use of public
    resources

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The program provided US$ 46.5 million to the Government of Rwanda. It was appraised in April 2, 2013 and
    approved by the Board on May 14, 2013. It became effective on June 04, 2013. The credit was disbursed in full
    on effectiveness, and the program was closed as scheduled on June 30, 2014. The difference between planned
    and actually disbursed amount was due to exchange rate fluctuations.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
    IEG assessed the relevance of objectives as substantial.

    Although the DPO was not planned as part of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (2009-2013) the operation
    was aligned with the two strategic pillars: (i) promoting economic transformation and growth and (ii) reducing
    social vulnerability, and particularly with outcome 1.4: 'Management of Public Resources at Central and Local
    Levels Strengthened'. It remained relevant with one of three themes of the 2014-18 Country Partnership Strategy:
    ‘Supporting accountable governance through public financial management and decentralization’. It is aligned with
    the Government's Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy II, in particular one of its key priorities
    to further improve the quality of service delivery. It is also aligned with the third phase of decentralization
    (2011-2015) seeking to extend the range of services decentralized to local government, while also deepening
    decentralization to sub-district levels.

b. Relevance of Design:
   IEG assessed the relevance of design as modest.

    The Program Development Objectives were underpinned by a choice of relevant policy areas that addressed
    various aspects of decentralization. The causal chain, reflected in the policy matrix, linked objectives to policy
    actions and outcomes for three out of four policy areas (capacity development, improved government
    accountability, and enhanced fiduciary accountability). Prior actions were in many cases logically linked to the
    objectives, were steps towards delivering the expected outcomes, and were all achieved less than one year prior
    to Board approval.

    There were design weaknesses, however, that affected the quality of results chain.

         The prior action on enacting the new tax policy was aimed at “limiting the scope for "nuisance” fees and
    charges and setting clear maximum allowable rates to ensure that the fees and other charges levied are
    consistent with the quality of service provided, are do not discourage utilization of services“ (PD, page 24). The
    ICR suggested that this action area aimed for a better enabling environment for local economic development
    (ICR, page 12). This statement suggests that the implicit outcome in this area was to align the quality of services
    with the fees to create an enabling business environment for service users. However, the choice of outcome
    indicator, increased collection of local fees, affects the quality of the causal chain as there is no evidence that
    alignment of the fees with the quality of services would necessarily increase the revenues. In this respect, the
    ICR mentioned that local fees were expected to increase as a result of introduction of one-stop shop that
    facilitated service provision and, subsequently, collection of local fees.

        Although the Law on Access to Information (first introduced in 2009, adopted by the Parliament in December
    2012, and enacted in March 2013) may positively contribute to decentralization reforms, it was not prepared as
    part of Bank’s partnership with the Government, which affects the value added of the relevant prior action.
       The prior action on audit reports – the review of 25 District Audit Committee Reports from 2012 and issuance
   of communication to the Districts on the main areas of follow up - suffers from lack of institutional depth. The
   institutional content of the prior action is not obvious from the Program Document, and it is not clear if this action
   of annual recurrence was in any way different in substance from the practice of the past (review of District reports
   in the previous years). The extent of recommendations given to the Districts Councils by the Office of Audit
   General was also not clear.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Supporting the Government to clarify institutional roles and responsibilities for decentralized service delivery :
   Substantial

   With respect to roles and responsibilities of local government, the ICR reports that the new legislation and
   presidential orders approved during 2013 as a follow-up to the new Decentralization Policy improved the
   organization and functioning of sub-national government entities. Guidance materials were approved by the
   Government to ensure sound implementation of new legislation. The ICR reports that around 80 percent of staff
   positions in revised organizations were filled, as opposed to 70 percent target of the program that indicates the
   process of restructuring had gone well.

   With respect to the local fees and other charges, the ICR reports that with the help of the Presidential Order (a
   prior action) that followed the approval of the Law on Sources of Revenue and Property of Decentralized Entities
   and Governing their Management, approved in 2011, a framework to ensure that the fees levied are consistent
   with the quality of services provided encouraging the utilization of services was created. The ICR reports that the
   fees increased by 33 percent (FY2014 vs FY2013) against expected 12 percent. The ICR also reports that
   technological innovations helped to reduce the cost of service provision by the districts. This review
   acknowledges that some important changes took place. Full assessment of efficacy of this objective, however, is
   challenging because the outcome indicator measures the fiscal impact of the change, while the implicit outcome
   of the intervention was to align the local fees with the quality of service provided. Therefore, it remains unclear if
   the over-performance of the target value (33 percent actual versus 12 percent expected) is in line with the spirit of
   the reforms.

   Enhancing public transparency , fiduciary accountability , and local government capacity for improved access to
   quality services: Substantial

   Achievement of this objective is assessed based on achievements of the following outcomes.

   Develop Capacities for Quality Service Delivery by Local Governments : This sub-objective aimed at improving
   capacities for service delivery in PFM. It was expected that application of simplified accounting and financial
   reporting (that was being piloted in Kigali at the time) in subsidiary entities of districts would contribute to an
   improved tracking of funding, leading to an improvement of the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
   (PEFA) PI-23 indicator from “D” in 2010 to “C” in 2014 (outcome indicator). Although the PEFA assessment was
   delayed and no information was available on the value of this indicator at the time of this review, the ICR provided
   evidence about substantial progress in strengthening the PFM system at local government entities. Specifically,
   the ICR reports that two public expenditure tracking surveys were conducted, which established that with the
   roll-out of subsidiary entity accounting systems in December 2013 and completion of the pilot in 40 percent of all
   sectors and districts as of June 2014 substantially improved the PFM capacities. This review takes a note of
   these alternative sources of information for assessing the efficacy of objective.

   Improve Government Accountability and Transparency to Citizens : This sub-objective aimed at improving citizen
   participation in local government, especially in budgeting processes. These changes were expected to take place
   as a result of enacting the Law on Access to Information and subsequent ministerial orders for its
   implementation, as well as series of awareness campaigns conducted by the Office of the Ombudsman. This was
   reinforced by district initiatives to promote citizen participation in various aspects of governance (such as Open
   Days, Citizen’s Charter, Governance Month, etc). The ICR reported that target value of 20 percent citizen
   participation through various channels was exceeded. The ICR also stated that the share of women in total
   participation was above 50 percent, attributable to the Gender Sensitivity citizens guide used by the districts.

   Enhance Local Government Fiduciary Accountability : This sub-objective aimed at improving fiduciary
   accountability of districts and their subsidiary budgetary entities. As a prior action the Office of the Audit General
   reviewed 25 District Audit reports and communicated main areas for the follow up to the District Councils. It was
   expected that this would lead to improved fiduciary practices in districts evidenced by 5 qualified district audits at
   the end of FY2013. As discussed above in Section 3b this policy area suffered from weak prior action. At the time
   of ICR preparation the Annual Report of the Office of Audit General had not been presented to the Parliament,
   and as such, no formal assessment of fiduciary accountability compliance of Districts was available, although the
   ICR indicates that three Districts received “qualified” audit opinion. This review finds that there is no substantial
   improvement in this area that can be attributable to Bank’s supported actions.

   Overall macroeconomic performance : Economic growth was 4.7% in 2013, and 6% (estimated) in 2014, which
   was less than anticipated in the PD (7% and 7.5% respectively), but judged to be strong performance by the IMF,
   with all quantitative assessment criteria met and all but one benchmark observed (2014 IMF Article IV
   Consultation Report). Aid flows partly recovered in 2014, but were directed through investment project financing
   rather than direct budget support financing as general budget support remained suspended. Government
   borrowing increased substantially to mitigate the impact of aid slowdown in 2013, as well as to finance large
   infrastructure projects.

5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   IEG's outcome rating of moderately satisfactory reflects the substantial relevance of the program's objectives
   and modest relevance of design, and substantial achievements of the two program objectives. This review finds
   that there was strong reform momentum in decentralization in Rwanda and some important results were
   achieved, especially in clarifying roles and responsibilities in service delivery, capacity development in local
   governments, and strengthening accountability and fiduciary frameworks. The overall outcome of this operation
   suffered from design weaknesses that affected the quality of results chain in the area of local taxes, as well as
   program’s value added in promoting stronger civic participation through the Law on Access to Information and
   local audit reports.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The ICR highlights political, macroeconomic and sustainability risks to outcomes. This review highlights that
   political and macroeconomic risks are moderate because of improved regional situation and resumption of project
   financing by the donors. The risks to sustainability of outcomes also appears moderate because the reform
   momentum remains strong, also helped by the Bank’s new Public Sector Governance Program for Results.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The Bank team worked hard to put together this operation under review in a very tight time schedule. The
    request by the Borrower was received in February 2013, while the program was submitted to the Board in
    April 2013. The choice of decentralization as a reform area for this operation reflects the political context of
    donor aid. Donors’ dissatisfaction with Rwanda’s alleged involvement in the conflict in neighboring
    Democratic Republic of Congo led to an aid suspension that also affected the Rwanda Poverty Reduction
    Strategy Financing series, a Bank-led instrument that served as a platform for joint donor support. The Bank
    had to reach a consensus with its partners with respect to the policy areas it could support through a
    unilateral assistance to Rwanda. In this context, the Bank decided to go ahead with a stand-alone operation
    to provide an urgent financial assistance to enable Rwanda to safeguard its achievements in poverty
    reduction and growth of preceding years. This review recognizes the efforts of the Bank team in preparing a
    program in very challenging circumstances that required political buy-in by other donors and delivered much
    needed financing to the Government of Rwanda. The review also highlights that the program’s institutional
    content in some areas was weak, and that affected the program’s value added in promoting decentralization
    reforms, as discussed in Section 3b. In addition, the macro and fiscal considerations that motivated the
    program were not reflected in the objective affected the operation's focus. The team clarified that although the
    program lacked formal macro and fiscal focus there was a strong Bank-client dialogue on trade-offs that
    Rwanda was facing at that time.
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Government and development partners carried out annual Joint Sector Reviews to monitor the progress
   and to set priorities (ICR, page 25). As part of this process, the Bank closely monitored reform progress and
   addressed key issues. The continuous dialog provided the foundation for the subsequent Public Sector
   Governance Program-for-Results operation, which builds on the achievements of the DPO.

  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government demonstrated strong ownership in reforms in the area of decentralization. A number of
   important actions were implemented before and after the program’s approval to enhance the roles and
   responsibilities of various public agencies; to streamline revenue collection at local level; and to build
   capacities for PFM and fiduciary accountability functions of local authorities. With respect to the overall macro
   and fiscal policy conduct at the time of aid shortfall, the government reacted to the aid shortfall by spending
   cuts and revenue measures, as well as by issuing domestic bonds. The IMF highlighted that Rwanda is facing
   a challenge of “conducting policy and maintaining macroeconomic stability under highly uncertain prospects
   for donor aid and the global environment”, for which Rwanda needs to “align spending priorities in FY 2012/13
   with available financing, stand ready to scale back spending should delays in aid disbursements extend
   beyond the current fiscal year, and use the proceeds of the Eurobond exclusively to retire short-term debt and
   complete strategic investment projects as planned” (Article 4 Consultation Report of 2012 and Fifth Review of
   Program Support Instrument, March 2013). The ICR does not provide information on government
   performance in these important areas.



  Government Performance Rating :                              Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The ICR reports that the Government and Implementing Agencies were indistinguishable and only one rating
   is provided.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   The design of M&E was largely adequate, given data limitations characteristic to many governance and
   institutional reforms. Noted shortcomings were the following: a) the indicator on the number of positions filled to
   monitor the extent of reorganization is an output rather than outcome oriented; and b) the indicator on collection
   of the fees does not necessarily capture what the program intended to achieve.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR reports that the Bank monitored the progress of reforms through Joint Sector Reviews, and also through
   co-chairing the PFM coordination forum, along with active participation of Bank staff in the Decentralization
   Working Group.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR does not report any utilization of the M&E system beyond monitoring program implementation.

  M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    The ICR does not report safeguard issues.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The ICR does not report fiduciary issues.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    None

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory            Moderately             The program drew on ongoing reforms
                                                       Satisfactory           in decentralization but there were
                                                                              design flaws that affected the
                                                                              operation's value-added in promoting
                                                                              some of the reforms.
         Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                    Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory      Moderately             Bank performance was affected by the
                                                       Satisfactory           lack of macro and fiscal focus. The
                                                                              choice of the prior actions also affected
                                                                              the quality of the operation.
      Borrower Performance : Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Government had strong ownership, and
                                                                              many intended actions were
                                                                              implemented and results achieved.
                                                                              However, there was no sufficient
                                                                              information on the important areas of
                                                                              macro and fiscal management at the
                                                                              time of aid shortfall.
                Quality of ICR:                        Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:


    The ICR highlighted a number of lessons, such as importance of "thinking outside the box" in difficult
    circumstances; understanding political economy context; and government's commitment and leadership.

    In addition, this review suggests the following three lessons:

         Although extraordinary budget support by the Bank at the time of a shock can draw on ongoing sector
          reforms, lack of reflection of the key motivation of its engagement may affect program's relevance . For
          example, proper reflection of this in program objective and design would allow supporting the client's
          policy response to the shock, and engage in quality policy dialogue during program implementation

         Although drawing on strong reform momentum is important for the success of budget support operations,
          but, at the same time, it is critical that Bank's operation provide value-added to the reform program by
          facilitating the reforms and improving their quality through supporting critical actions during preparation
          and through policy dialogue during program implementation

         Shortcutting the process of DPO preparation can speed up the provision of much needed resources to
          help alleviate a fiscal shortfall; however, this could result in design weaknesses that may affect the quality
          of the results chain, and reduce an operation’s value in enabling key policy reforms.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides detailed accounts and analysis on many important aspects of the program. It, however, fails to
    provide information in three important areas:

         The ICR could have provided more information about the macroeconomic and fiscal situation during
          program implementation and at preparation of the ICR. The ICR discusses (page 2) GDP growth, average
          rate of Treasury bills, exchange rate, and reserve levels, but could have also covered budget deficit,
          domestic borrowing, and revenue measures. The IMF reports that the authorities considered large
          infrastructure projects for funding at the time, which is not discussed in the report although they are
          important for understanding the nature of budget constraints that motivated this operation.

         The ICR does not provide sufficient information on Bank performance during supervision. The information
          provided is very general, and refers to Joint Sector Reviews without specifying its relevance for supervision
          of the operation under review. This is also the case in M&E implementation, for which the ICR provides only
          non-specific information.

         The ICR provides no information about the activities of the implementing agency, the Ministry of Finance and
          Economic Planning, during program implementation.

    On balance, the quality of the ICR is satisfactory but marginally so.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
