E469
GEORGIA INTEGRATED COASTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT (GICMP)
Component 2: Establishment of Kolkheti Protected Areas
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
FINAL REPORT
PREPARED FOR
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS OF GEORGIA
*                     ~~~~~~~MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT OF GEORGIA
and
GICMP PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT:
Ah             ~~~~Integrated Coastal Zone Management Centre (ICZM Centre)
2d Floor, 78 Paliashivili Street
Tbilisi, Georgia
PREPARED BY
Pandion Systems, Inc.
5200 NW 43rSte, Suite 102-3 14
Gainesville, FL 32606-4482 USA.
January 20, 2001
.v~~~~~AO 311



GEORGIA INTEGRATED COASTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT (GICMP)
Component 2: Establishment of Kolkheti Protected Areas
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
FINAL REPORT
PREPARED FOR
STATE DEPARTMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS OF GEORGIA
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT OF GEORGIA
and
GICMP PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT:
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Centre (ICZM Centre)
2nd Floor, 78 Paliashvili Street
Tbilisi, Georgia
PREPARED BY
Pandion Systems, Inc.
5200 NW 43rd Street, Suite 102-314
Gainesville, FL 32606-4482 USA.
January 20, 2001



KNP Environmental Review                                      January 20, 2001
5. There will be few negative environmental impacts from the development of the KNP.
The environmental impacts that may occur will be minor or localized. The impacts
may result from construction of park infrastructure, potential increase in recreational
use, induced development in surrounding areas, and potential changes in natural
resource management. Presently, there are significant adverse environmental impacts
from logging, peat extraction, agricultural conversion of wetlands, and illegal hunting
occurring in the proposed protected areas plus impacts from major development such
as an oil trans-shipment project. These impacts will continue if the KNP is not fully
established and implemented. The KNP project will cause significant positive impacts
by eliminating or reducing the adverse environmental impacts.
6. Presently there are large areas designated to be included in the KNP that are relatively
undisturbed wetlands. These wetlands have not been converted to agriculture or other
human uses. Many of the areas remain in near undisturbed states. Most of the
negative encroachment and impacts occur on the periphery of the KNP and along
corridors (roads and waterways) that lead into the proposed KNP areas.
7. The primary negative impacts resulting from the KNP project may be socio-economic
impacts to local residents unless mitigation measures are implemented to address
impacts. They may occur as a result of restricting their current activities such as
illegal logging, grazing, or peat extraction. These and other issues will be addressed
in the EMP.
8. The development of the KNP will have many positive impacts for the biodiversity of
Georgia and the region. The development of the Kolkheti National Park provides an
excellent opportunity for the protection and maintenance of an important wetland and
coastal zone area adjacent to the Black Sea. Large sectors of this area have been
designated as a RAMSAR site (Kolkheti wetlands lowland complex and Kobuleti
Nature Reserve) since 1996. With the establishment of the KNP, the Government of
Georgia hopes that the development of the park will provide safeguards to these
important natural resources and create sustainable economic opportunities by
highlighting (eco) tourism possibilities. Therefore, Georgia's Ministry of
Environment created the CICMP to oversee the administration and organization of
the park based on Georgian Law #2407, Establishment and Management of the
Kolkheti Protective Areas, which was signed into law 09/12/99.
2



KNP Environmental Review                                      January 20, 2001
Background
9. The Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project (GICMP) is an initiative by the
Ministry of Environment (MoE) of Georgia within the framework of the Black Sea
Environmental Program (BSEP). The GICMP was implemented in response to the
management challenges faced by the country in its coastal areas and, in particular, the
wetlands of international significance - Kolkheti RAMSAR sites. The overall project
has the following objectives:
* To strengthen institutions in Georgia to manage the coastal resources of the Black
Sea within a framework of environmentally and socially sustainable development.
* To conserve biological diversity of international significance on Georgia's Black
Sea coast through establishment of a national park and nature reserve for the
Kolkheti and Kobuleti wetlands, which have been designated RAMSAR sites.
10. The GICMP project has five components including Component 2 that establishes the
Kolkheti National Park (KNP) and the Kobuleti Nature Reserve (KNR) wetland
protected areas along the coast. This report is an environmental review of the
proposed KNP.
Report Objectives
11. The objective of this report is to conduct an Environmental Review (ER) of the
proposed Kolkheti National Park component of the GICMP. The ER primarily
addresses the new park infrastructure requirements for park. This ER provides
information and analysis that will facilitate appropriate infrastructure development
and planning for the park.
12. The preparation of the ER includes the following considerations:
* Identification of likely major environmental impacts and their anticipated
significance in the development of the Kolkheti National Park including:
-  Cumulative impact of small-scale typical park related infrastructure
developments around the protected areas and in the support zone,
-  Significant social impacts associated with the development of the park
infrastructure (including induced development, if any, and other socio-cultural
aspects), and
-  Potential impacts, specifically to protected areas and biodiversity within the
park boundaries.
• Identification of alternatives and mitigation measures to avoid or reduce impacts.
* Determination of the general type and range of baseline data required to measure
and monitor predicted environmental impacts.
* Development of a recommended outline of the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP).
3



KNP Environmental Review                                      January 20, 2001
*  Recommendations for EA performance monitoring and proposals for KPA
administration's local personnel capacity building in environmental assessment /
audit.
*  Identification of general guidelines for drafting citing criteria to be included in the
Infrastructure Management Plan.
13. Comments and guidance from the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Centre (ICZM Centre), World Bank, relevant
Government Ministries, Departments, and Committees, as well as non-governmental
environmental organizations were solicited to ensure transparency, cooperation, and
thoroughness of this ER. For the KNP to succeed it will be imperative that this type
of communication and collaboration be fostered and sustained.
14. Pandion Systems Inc. (Pandion) began the environmental review in June 2000. A
Pandion team completed the site visit and data collection in Georgia in July 2000.
Pandion appreciated the cooperation and substantial assistance from the PIU for
GICMP and the staff of the ministries and departments within the Government of
Georgia and the World Bank.
Study Area
15. The study area includes the Kolkheti National Park, which is a 45,000-hectare area
that includes both marine (stretching 5 nautical miles off-shore) and terrestrial
environments. It encompasses the Anaklia-Churia, Nabada and Imnati-Grigoleti
massifs of the Central Kolkheti wetlands and lies in the floodplains of the Rioni River
near its mouth. The Kolkheti National Park has been established around an area
within the larger Kolkheti wetlands lowland complex that was designated by the
Parliamentary Resolution as a RAMSAR Site in 1996 (a wetland of international
importance). The Kobuleti Nature Reserve is a smaller 780-hectare area located just
inland from the Black Sea coast near the city of Kobuleti, which also received a
designation as a RAMSAR site. It is also part of the larger Kolkheti wetland lowland
complex.
16. The park's ecosystems include wetlands, forests, dune, marine and riparian natural
habitats. Because each of these ecosystems is intersectional and interrelated, they
contribute to the rich biodiversity that exists within the project area. To ensure the
environmental sustainability and health of the areas, the protection, preservation, and
conservation of these natural resources are paramount.
4



KNP Environmental Review                                        January 20, 2001
KNP Project Description
17. In 1994, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Conservation Program in Georgia drafted
the guidelines for the development of the Kolkheti wetlands protected areas. WWF
was supported by the World Bank/GEF through the Black Sea Environmental
Program (BSEP) sponsored Integrated Coastal Zone Management Program of
Georgia. In December of 1998, the Georgian Parliament adopted the Establishment
and Management of Kolkheti Protected Areas law.
18. The KNP aims to improve the protection and management of threatened forest and
wetland natural habitats within the Kolkheti coastal region, and to integrate these
protected areas into the broader development objectives of the coastal management
project. Under the project, support would be provided to:
* Conserve the biodiversity of the Kolkheti region through protection, management,
and restoration of unique plant communities.
* Establish infrastructure for improved biodiversity protection and development of
nature-based tourism in the region.
* Improve monitoring and applied research on biodiversity and the effectiveness of
conservation efforts.
- Protect fish spawning grounds necessary for the protection of freshwater and
marine biodiversity and their sustainable use.
- Recover threatened agricultural biodiversity.
19. The development of the KNP must also consider the socio-economic needs of the
people that reside in proximity to the park. Traditionally, much of the project areas
have been used for logging, hunting, grazing and fishing activities. Due to Georgia's
current transitional economy, this resource extraction continues and there is
increasing pressure on the natural resources in the designated protected area. As the
park is developed, a substantial effort to include the public in its organization and
development will be needed to ensure the success and viability of this project.
20. The greatest challenge for the KNP may be the coordination of the various national,
regional, and local entities that have interest in this project. The park includes
sections of two regions (Samegrelo and Guria). It is adjacent to numerous
municipalities and communities. In addition to the regional interests, there are
governmental agencies that are currently managing or monitoring activities (State
Departments of Forestry, Land Use, Ministry of Transport etc.). As the project
progresses, these stakeholders will need to be oriented, coordinated, and educated
about the long-term benefits of this project.
21. In 1994, the WWF Management Guidelines document provides a basic description of:
* Proposed initial boundaries,
* Preliminary environmental inventory,
* Proposed zones and their functions for the park,
* Social-economic conditions and natural resources, and
Possible management programs and strategy.
5



KNP Environmental Review                                      January 20, 2001
22. As the project progresses, these guidelines offer an excellent reference point for park
planning and monitoring activities.
23. The existing management guidelines for KNP and KNR provide background for the
preparation of comprehensive management plans for these protected areas under the
GICMP. Component 2 will finalize and implement the management plans. These plans
will unify various measures to improve protection and management of the
biodiversity of the KNP, including restoration of degraded habitats, control of illegal
logging and hunting, and monitoring. The management plans will integrate the park's
biodiversity protection functions with regional development needs, such as (eco)
tourism. Table I provides an outline of the KNP Project goals and objectives.
Environmental Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
24. State control, organization, supervision, and planning for the KNP is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Environment (MoE), Ministry of Urbanization and
Construction, and the State Department of the Protected Areas. This is in accordance
with the Georgian Law on Environmental Protection and the Law of the Systems of
Protected Areas.
25. To assure the ICM project control and supervision, the MoE established the ICZM
Centre. The ICZM Centre is charged with implementing the project in support of the
establishment and management of the KNP. ICZM Centre ensures that development
activities do not contradict the environmental policies and objectives of the
Government of Georgia and the World Bank. In this capacity, the ICZM Centre
coordinates with the Minister of the Environment, State Department of Protected
Areas, parliamentary committees and other governmental institutions as well as
funding institutions such as the World Bank. The GICMP is administered by a PIU
which is located at the ICZM Center in Tbilisi, Georgia. Table 2 provides a summary
of potentially applicable Georgian environmental polices.
26. From the review of existing national environmental policies and laws, it is evident
that there are appropriate guidelines in place for the development of KNP. Effective
administration and enforcement of these policies and laws will be critical to the
success of the KNP. With the establishment of Kolkheti National Park and the
Kobuleti Nature Reserve wetland protective areas, the Government of Georgia will
be:
•  Strengthening institutions in Georgia to manage the coastal resources of the
Black Sea,
* Conserving biological diversity of international significance on Georgia's
Black Sea Coast.
6



KNP Environmental Review                                      January 20, 2001
27. Furthermore, by applying relevant provisions of the World Bank Operational Policies
and Procedures for this Category B project, KNP will assure that appropriate
environmental policies and procedures are implemented. It will minimize adverse
impacts resulting from proposed activities to the physical, ecological, and socio-
economic resources in the project area.
Environmental Impacts
28. Construction and Operational Impacts: The World Bank has determined that the KNP
Project is a Category B project. This indicates the project is not considered to have
major and significant adverse environmental impacts (see OP 4.01). If adverse
environmental impacts do occur they will be localized, site specific, and mitigatable.
A full environmental assessment (EA) is not required. This environmental review
confirms this determination. Figure 1 shows the proppsed locations of the facilities
associated with the KNP.
29. There will be few negative environmental impacts from the development of the
Kolkheti National Park. Currently, there are significant adverse environmental
impacts. These impacts are resulting from logging, peat extraction, agricultural
conversion of wetlands, and illegal hunting occurring in the protected areas plus
impacts from major development such as oil transshipment project. These will
continue if the KNP is not fully established and implemented. The KNP project will
result in major positive impacts by eliminating or reducing these adverse
environmental impacts.
30. There are large areas designated proposed to be a part of the KNP. These are tracts of
relatively undisturbed wetlands that have not been converted to agriculture or other
human uses. Many of the areas remain in near undisturbed states. Most of the
encroachment and impacts from people are evident on the periphery of the KNP and
along corridors (roads and waterways) that lead into the proposed KNP areas. Once
the KNP is established and running, there may be cumulative impacts from small-
scale typical park related infrastructure or induced developments around the protected
areas but the impacts from these developments will be minimal. Since there are many
communities and developments surrounding the proposed KNP already, it is
anticipated that most unplanned development will occur near or within already
established communities. The Environmental Management Plan and Protected Areas
Management Plan should establish planning and development guidelines for the
support zones and for communities surrounding the KNP. The park administration
should work with local communities to implement these guidelines to minimize any
impacts from small-scale typical park related infrastructure and induced
developments that may occur.
7



KNP Environmental Review                                          January 20, 2001
31. The primary negative impacts from developing the KNP will be socio-economic
impacts to local residents. For example restricting local residents from illegal logging,
grazing, or peat extraction will have local socio-economic impacts. The Table 3
summarizes the potential construction and operational impacts associated with the
proposed KNP project activities.
32. The development of the KNP will have overall benefits to the biodiversity of Georgia
and the region. It will protect the unique and environmentally sensitive resources and
will have long-term socio-economic positive impacts if the KNP is properly planned,
implemented, and managed.
33. Measures to Prevent. Minimize, Mitigate and Compensate for Adverse
Environmental Impacts: As shown in Table 3, there are a number of site specific
localized adverse impacts that may result from this project. Measures can be adopted
and used to prevent, minimize, mitigate and/or compensate for these impacts. One of
the effective measures to reduce environmental impacts is the proper siting of
infrastructure facilities, roads and trails. Environmental siting considerations need to
be incorporated into the design phase. The following is a general list of siting
considerations that need to be used to develop specific siting criteria for the siting of
the park infrastructure facilities:
3  Locate and design facilities, roads and trails to respond to site conditions.
3  Develop several alternatives for facility locations and alignments then evaluate
and compare the environmental impacts of alternative site locations and
alignments, and choose the least environmentally damaging.
*  Specifically avoid construction in wetlands or site facilities in altered wetland
rather than in undisturbed wetlands.
3  Design and site drainage works to minimize changes to surface water flows
and/or avoid altering surface water hydrology.
*  Avoid locating facilities and roads next to sensitive wildlife areas such as nest
sites or roost sites.
*  Avoid creating incompatible land use when siting of facilities and roads, and if
necessary create buffers between incompatible land uses.
*  Consider the aesthetics in site design and location, and avoid affecting the view
shed.
*  Incorporate sustainable environmental concepts into facilities.
These recommendations and the others found in Table 3 should be taken into account
during the preparation of the Protected Areas Management Plan and the Environmental
Management Plan.
8



KNP Environmental Review                                        January 20, 2001
34. Baseline Data Requirements: Site-specific baseline information will need to be
collected on water resources, biological resources, and socio-economic resources of
the areas affected to determine the specific types and magnitudes of environmental
impacts. Table 4 outlines the major types of baseline information that will be needed
to fully assess the extent of the impacts and to develop measures to prevent,
minimize, mitigate and/or compensate for these impacts. As has been noted, the
primary impact of the park will be to the socio-economic conditions of the area. In
order to mitigate these impacts, it is necessary to acquire a clear understanding of
those socio-economic activities that will require mitigation. The following is a list of
specific socio-economic information needs. This data can then be applied when
initiating the planning, monitoring and mitigation efforts.
*  Number of cattle and cattle owners utilizing grazing areas within the park
boundaries
*  Amount and location of grazing lands available with in park boundaries
*  Number of individuals actively logging within park boundaries and methods
being used
*  Type, age, use and amount of forest products being extracted from park
*  Types of hunting activities, quarry and the seasonal variations
-  Number of individuals utilizing the park area for hunting activities
-  Areas of hunting concentration with in the park boundaries
*  Number and location of fishing activities within the park
-  Types and amount of fish resources (fresh water & marine) being extracted
*  Types of agricultural activities existing within park boundaries
3  Types and prevalence of resource extraction activities with in the park
3  Development activities (permitted and non-permitted) currently in progress and
planned adjacent to the park boundaries
35. While gathering this information, the local communities can be engaged and educated
about the park planning process. For the KNP to be a success, public participation
will be essential. All entities involved with the implementation of this project and
infrastructure planning will need to be aware of the importance of public
participation. The development and implementation of the KNP will need to balance
environmental protection with community based resource management principles.
Perfonnance Planning, Monitoring and Supervision
36. All the entities involved with the organization and the development of the park need
to clearly understand and accept their roles and responsibilities. This will be essential
to minimize any adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts that will be
related to the implementation of the KNP project. Furthermore, it will be crucial that
clear lines of communication be established to ensure that all involved are performing
their tasks in a timely and efficient manner. Figure 2 presents an initial representation
of the relationship and general responsibilities of MoE, Department of Protected
Areas, Park Director and GICMP. Specific roles and responsibilities will need to be
developed for these entities in relationship to KNP.
9



KNP Environmental Review                                        January 20, 2001
37. The success of this project depends greatly on a clear understanding and acceptance
of, and the ability to communicate and articulate, the mission, goals and objectives of
Kolkheti National Park. To guarantee that this occurs it is necessary that, prior to the
implementation of the park and its management planning, detailed consideration be
given to updating a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (World Bank Procedures
10:00). The PIP sets in place two components that will provide guidelines and offer
benefits to assessing and managing long-term impacts (positive and negative) of the
project.
a) Monitoring Program:
* Establishes indicators that will inform the project on pre-development and
post-development environmental and social conditions that will allow
comparisons of impacts and their mitigation measures.
b) Supervision Plan:
*  Assures the project's legal framework is in compliance and in agreement with
the stated mission and objectives of park, national laws and regulations, as
well as credits and grants agreements.
*  Verifies institutional responsibilities and capacities of the various agencies
involved in park management and monitoring and identifies support and
technical skills required for successful project implementation.
Environmental Management Plan
38. In addition to defining roles and responsibilities for the KNP, an environmental
management plan (EMP) needs to be developed. This plan consists of the set of
mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures to be taken during implementation
and operation to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or
reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan includes the actions needed to implement
these measures. The EMP identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that are
proposed to reduce the potentially adverse environmental impacts to acceptable
levels. The EMP will assist in developing portions of the overall General
Management Plan for the KNP and assist in planning all phases of the project. In
addition, during the development of the EMP, the locations of the proposed KNP
facilities should be reviewed and revised based on the considerations outlined in this
ER and further analysis during the EMP. The following is a basic outline for an
Environmental Management Plan for the KNP.
I.     Introduction
II.    Mitigation
A.     Development Phase
1.    Major impacts
2.    Mitigation measures and their consequences
3.    Linkages to other mitigation plans required for project
B.     Construction Phase
1.     Major impacts
2.     Mitigation measures and their consequences
3.     Linkages to other mitigation plans required for project
10



KNP Environmental Review                                             January 20, 2001
C.      Operational Phase
1.      Major impacts
2.      Mitigation measures and their consequences
3.      Linkages to other mitigation plans required for project
III.    Monitoring
A.      Development Phase
1.     Impact
a.      Monitoring measures
i.    Indicators
ii.    Standards (Detection limits and/or definition
of thresholds)
b.      Methods
1.    Sampling locations
2.    Frequency of measurements
3.    Procedures
c.      Reporting procedures and time frames
B.      Construction Phase
1.     Impact
a.      Monitoring measures
i.     Indicators
ii.     Standards
b.      Methods
i.    Samplinig locations
ii.    Frequency of measurements
iii.   Procedures
c.      Reporting procedures and time frames
C.      Operational Phase
1.     Impact
a.      Monitoring measures
i.    Indicators
ii.    Standards
b.      Methods
i.    Sampling locations
ii.    Frequency of measurements
iii.   Procedures
c.      Reporting procedures and time frames
IV.     Capacity Development and Training
A.    Identification of involved institutions (Agencies, Institutions, and
NGO's)
B.    Description of current roles and responsibilities of involved
institutions
C.    Identification of gaps in coordination or responsibilities of involved
institutions (e.g. operation, supervision, monitoring of
implementation, remedial action, financing, reporting, enforcement,
staff training)
11



KNP Environmental Review                                       January 20, 2001
D.   Description of institutional arrangements to address gaps including
organizational changes
V.   Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
VI.  Integration of EMP with Project
VII.  Appendices
39. Table 3 identifies impact considerations and measures to prevent, minimize, mitigate
and/or compensate for the environmental impacts associated with the construction
and operational phases of the KNP project. Specific monitoring components need to
be developed for these measures and incorporated into the EMP. For the KNP project
the EMP needs to focus on the major impacts identified in Table 3.
12



KNP Environmental Review                                                     January 20, 2001
Table 1. Kolkheti National Park Project Goals and Objectives
Kolkheti National Park Goals
I . Facilitate uninterrupted development of natural process and protection of Kolkheti wetlands.
2. Assure protection of natural ecosystems, landscapes, wildlife and plants within the protective areas.
3. Preserve biological diversity.
4. Facilitate development of legal mechanisms for recreation, tourism, and economic development within the protected territory.
5. Assure care, protection, restoration, and rational use of land, water, animals and plants within the Kolkheti Protected Areas.
6. Assure ecological balance on shore and off shore within 5 nautical miles of the Kolkheti Protected Areas.
7. Create opportunities for educational and research purposes.
8. Protect and repair historic and cultural monuments and sites.
Objectives
Action                                                Target/Result
* Bio-diversity of plants and animals.
Protection, Preservation & Conservation          0Bodvriyo  lnsadaias
Protection, Preservation & Conservation  *  Seawater quality in designated coastal zone.
*  Important ecosystems that contribute to the health of the environment
(wetlands, dunes, forests, riparian, marine).
*  Cultural and historical sites.
*  Natural systems that have been altered by anthropogenic impact.
Recuperation & Restoration
*  Creation of an environmental management plan (EMP).
Establishing of Infrastructure                   *  Environmentally friendly and appropriate construction of
administrative facilities, tourist services, paths, shelters and centers.
*  Implementation of sound park and environmental management
principles and procedures.
Education                                  *  Improve opportunities for environmental research.
*  Increase environmental awareness through environmental education
highlighting natural, cultural and historic features located in the park.
*  Reduce natural resource consumption by implementation and
Stimulation of Sustainable Development              introduction of alternative energy sources.
*  Sustainable development of regional agriculture with consideration to
local traditions and methods.
*  Environmentally appropriate village industries that support park
activities and goals.
*  Inclusion of the public and local stakeholders into the planning,
monitoring and development process.
13



KNP Environmental Review                                                           January 20, 2001
Table 2. Georgian Environmental Laws & Legislation
Legislation                            Date                  Applicability
*   Defines principles and standards of the legal relationship
Law of Environmental Protection        December 1996              in the scope of environmental protection (Sec. 1, Ch. I, Art.
5).
*   Ensures protection of the environment and rational use of
natural resources (Sec. I, Ch. 1 Art. 3).
*   Preserves biological diversity, rare, endemic and
endangered species of flora and fauna (Sec. 1, Ch. VII &
Ch. XII, Art. 45-47).
*   Provides definitions of relevant environmental terms (Sec.
I, Ch. I, Art. 4).
*   Presents procedures and legal framework of environmental
requirements, registration and licensing (Sec. 1, Ch. IV).
*   Creates guidelines and standards for sustainable
development and environmental monitoring (Sec. I, Ch.
VI & VII).
*   Establishes the creation of environmental education and
research activities that promote sound ecological practices
(Sec. IH, Ch. III, Art. 8-10).
*   Defines the rights and obligations of investors, community
Law of Georgia on Environmental        October 1996               and the state in the area of environmental protection (Ch.
Permits                                                          I).
*   Facilitates the protection of the environment and national
resources from irreversible quantitative and qualitative
changes as well as to ensure their rational utilization (Ch.
I, Art. 1-2).
*   Outlines categories and classes of activities required for
environmental permitting (Ch. 11, Art. 4).
*   Details the permit application process and procedures (Chi.
I, Art. 5-13).
*   Presents environmental assessment guidelines and
requirements (Ch. III, Art. 14-16).
*   Details for the monitoring of the decision-making and
Law on State Ecological Expertise &    January 1997               issuance of environmental permits (Ch. I, Art. 1-3).
Associate By-Law                                              *   Provides standards and rules for ecological examinations
(Ch. IL, Art. 4-6).
*   Establishes procedures for an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) (Ch. III, Art. 8).
*   By-Law provides an outline and format for an EIA.
*   Designates existing categories of protected territories
Law on System of Protected Areas       March 1996                regulations, detail rules of prohibited and permitted actions
to those managing natural areas into conformity (Art. 1).
*   Establishes categories of protected territories (Reserves,
14



KNP Environmental Review                                                        January 20, 2001
Legislation                          Date                  Applicability
Parks, Monuments, Multi-use areas etc.) (Art. 3-11, Note
Art. 5).
*  Presents natural area planning procedures and
considerations (Art. 13).
*  Provides management plan guidelines (Art. 15).
* Outlines inter-agency and local government cooperation
strategy (Art. 13).
*  Legally mandates the creation of the KNP (Part 1, Ch. 1,
Law on the Establishment and         September 19, 1999        Art. 4).
Management of Kolkheti Protected                           *  Establishes park boundaries (Part 2, Ch. I, Art. 8-10).
*  Defines zones within the park (Part 2, Ch. IV, Art. 11-21).
*  Outlines allowable activities within park (Part 2, Ch. V,
Art. 21-26).
*  Provides management & supervision guidelines (Part 2,
Ch. VI).
15



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                      January 20, 2001
Table 3.       Summary of KNP Project Activities, Associated Potential Construction and Operational Impacts, and Potential
Measures to Prevent, Minimize, Mitigate and/or Compensate for Environmental Impacts of KNNP Project
Anticipated KNP               Potential Construction Impact(s)    Potential Operational Impacts                   Measures to Prevent, Minimizes,
Project Activities                                                                                                Mitigation or Compensate
Infrastructure (building)    No significant adverse impacts are       No significant adverse impacts are anticipated.  *  Use best management practices for all
construction/rehabilitation   anticipated.                             At sites where buildings are going to be       construction.
There will be minimal large-scale negative   improved, there will be positive impacts   Provide portable sanitary and solid waste
impacts from infrastructure             because of improved construction materials      collection facilities.
construction/rehabilitation. Existing    and planning.                                  collection fiisties
facilities and use of disturbed sites for                                           *   Site buildings in disturbed areas or where
construction is anticipated. Site specific                                              there will be minimal environmental impacts.
localized environmental impacts that may                                            *   Have common visual standards for all
occur where new buildings are constructed.                                              buildings.
*   Minimize new construction impacts in
wetlands, locate disturbed areas, and develop
restoration strategies.
Visitor trail and lookout     There will be minimal impacts from trail    No significant adverse impacts are anticipated.  *   Establish boardwalks where possible instead
development                   and lookout construction because in most    Trail use may cause local erosion problems,  of trails in wetlands or restrict trail
of the areas there are already extensive trail  effect unique plant communities and assist in  development and use in sensitive zones.
systems being used by cattle and locals.  promoting the spread of exotic species.   *  Close of trails for rehabilitation.
Once the park is established and controls
are implemented conditions may improve.                                             *  Rotate when certain trails are open to public to
reduce trail impacts.
Road development or          No significant adverse impacts are        No significant adverse direct impacts from  *   Provide portable sanitary and solid waste
rehabilitation                anticipated.                             road use are anticipated but localized impacts  collection facilities.
Most of the areas targeted for infrastructure  may occur.                           *   Implement sediment control measures.
have existing roads. There is a potential for  The use of existing and new roads may cause
improving the roads and reducing their   erosion, soil and water contamination,     *  Seed or plant erodible surfaces; restore or
impacts by rehabilitating them.          creation of stagnant water bodies, extraction  maintain vegetation.
of gravel and sediment for construction,   *   Install adequate drainage works by grading
destruction of vegetation, interruption of     and proper placement and sizing of culverts.
drainage, increased sediment loading in    *   Restore damaged sites.
streams, pathways for disease and exotics,  *   Design drainage works to minimize changes
barriers for plant and animal movement, and    in surface flows and adequate to local
potential flooding.                            conditions.
16



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                      January 20, 2001
Anticipated KNP               Potential Construction Impact(s)    Potential Operational Impacts                   Measures to Prevent, Minimizes,
Project Activities                                                                                                Mitigation or Compensate
*   Increase in number of drain outlets.
Secondary significant adverse impacts may  *  Establish retention ponds.
occur.
New roads or improved roads may increase   *  Use "clean" fill.
the ease of access to the wetlands and wildlife   *  Use gates and locks that allow access to
resource for illegal logging, hunting, peat    authorized personnel only.
extraction, and grazing effects.           *  Increase monitoring and enforcement
personnel.
*  Avoid or minimize the use of herbicides along
roads that harm native flora.
Increased visitation         Not applicable                           No significant adverse impacts are anticipated.  *  Implement a solid waste removal plan.
Within the park the affects from increased  *  Implement a recycling plan.
visitation will be minor compared to the   *   Identmen a         tecyclmg plan.
affects from current use. In general, impacts    *   Identify applicable technologies for water
from increased visitation may have localized   treatment needs.
increase in solid wastes such as garbage or  *  Adopt and enforce the "Leave no Trace"
litter. At sites where there may be            program (Environmental Code of Ethics).
concentrated visitation such as a visitor center
or where automobiles have access, impacts
may include increased sewage and runoff. In
addition, small-scale infrastructure
development around the boundary may occur
although there are established settlements
currently. These impacts will be minor.
Logging restrictions         Not applicable                            Logging restrictions will have positive    *  Help identify alternative and cost-effective
impacts for the natural areas by reducing the  fuel sources.
illegal timber harvesting of the wetland forests  *  Develop renewable forestry practices in
but they will have negative impacts on the     surrounding areas or in designated areas in the
local people who are using the area to gather  park.
firewood for heating and building.             P 
*   Implement strict logging permit program.
*  Develop and implement an environmental
education and outreach program about
alternative forestry practices.
17



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                   January 20, 2001
Anticipated KNP              Potential Construction Impact(s)   Potential Operational Impacts                  Measures to Prevent, Minimizes,
Project Activities                                                                                             Mitigation or Compensate
Grazing restrictions         Not applicable                          This activity will have positive impacts for the  *  Implement grazing rotation practices.
natural communities and plant biodiversity of  *  Establish grazing permit program.
the KNP but will have major negative impacts
on the local people who are using the area for   *  Train local communities in rangeland and
grazing.                                      pasture management.
This area has been traditionally been used for   *  Designate and enhance areas inside and
grazing.                                      outside the park for grazing.
Hunting/fishing restrictions  Not applicable                         Restrictions on hunting and fishing will  *  Establish hunting and fishing designated areas
increase the abundance for game and fish but  that require permits and limits.
will have major negative impacts on the local   *  Establish monitoring and enforcement
people who have traditionally used this area  program.
for subsistence as well as game and
commercial hunting and fishing. When
Georgia was part of the Soviet Union, areas of
the proposed KNP served and were managed
as game reserve.
Peat extraction restrictions  Not applicable                         This will have positive impacts for the natural  *  Help identify alternative and cost-effective
areas and processes of the KNP but may have   fuel sources.
negative impacts on the local people who are
using the area to extract peat. There has also
been commercial peat extraction in the past
although there does not appear to be any
current operations.
18



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                   January 20, 2001
Table 4. List of General Baseline Data Needs to Evaluate KNP Project Impacts
Project Associated Impact Issue          Baseline Data Needed
Infrastructure (building)                *  Site locations (GPS)
construction/rehabilitation impacts      *  Building construction specifications
*  Site environmental conditions (topography, soil types, hydrological conditions, vegetative and animal community
descriptions including wetland delineation)
Visitor trail and lookout development and  *  Site locations of current and planned trails and lookouts
use impacts                              *  Assessment of trail conditions, impacts, and erosion
*  Soil types, topography and wetland delineation
*  Location of sensitive species and/or habitats
Road development, rehabilitation and use  *  Locations of current and proposed roads and their use
impacts                                  *  Site environmental conditions (topography, soil types, hydrological conditions, vegetative and animal community
descriptions including wetland delineation
*  Assessment of conditions of current roads and their environmental impacts
*  Location of sensitive species and/or habitats
Increased visitation                     *  Environmental assessment of all areas where visitation will take place that includes water quality and ecological conditions
*  Current number of visitors/users of the park
Logging restrictions                     *  Locations of logged areas and access routes
*  Assessment of fuel needs of surrounding community
*  Assessment of socioeconomic conditions and needs of surrounding community
*  Data/estimates on past/current wood extraction from park areas
Grazing restrictions                     *  Locations of heavily grazed areas
*  Assessment of grazing needs of surrounding community
*  Assessment of socioeconomic conditions and needs of surrounding community
Hunting/fishing restrictions             *  Assessment of game and fish population levels
*  Assessment of local community subsistence requirements i.e. dependency on game and fish
* Determination of heavily used hunting and fishing areas
Peat extraction restrictions             *  Locations of peat extraction areas and access routes
*  Assessment of fuel needs of surrounding community
*  Assessment of socioeconomic conditions and needs of surrounding community
19



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                           January 20, 2001
Figure 1. Proposed Infrastructure and Facilities for Kolkheti National Park
#~~~~ -  ~  41942.5
Kolkheti National Park
~~i    ~ ~ 4~a  Z~ugdidi
3Administration & Visitors Center                     -     Kolkheti National Park
D lnfomlation Center                                         Strict Nature Protection Zone
Guard's Post (Shelter)                                                          42.4
Recuperation Zone
N  Visitor Shelter                                           Railways
-  Bed & Breakfast Hotel                                       Rolog
Al Wharf                                     ~~~~~~~~~~Roads
IE fgKh obi  a    Bird Viewing Stand (Shelter)
il > ............ ll | o ............. vCamp Site LGN
LEGEND
Rush Wetlands
Grass Wetlands
Mixed Wetlands
Forest Wetlands
Coastal Wetlands
sha                  ~~~~~Shrub Wetlands     42.2
Forests with Shrubs
Samtredia     Forests
Samtredia    ~ Peat Extraction
Bare Soils
Shrubs
4W    Meadows
*                    ~~~~~~Beaches
-~Agriculture Areas
Gardens
Parks
Lanchkhuti~~~~~~~ Settlements
Industrial and Built-up Areas
Pe nwy Cse .    -rSupsa,    K d PdikEN E .ene( proRecce an c Rsl ceSa reo Rg,nd C-s on ofThe Eco.gcg   a Y-ot  fSc-ences ofSos9
419    nnadCoaatn Min ce (ey 2501)                   G ogiesnonotaonCsn G no     42.5
20



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                   January 20, 2001
Figure 2. Major Planning, Monitoring, and Supervision Roles & Responsibilities
Ministry of Environment
-Provide legal and political
guidance and support.
- Coordinate government                            Department of                                    Park Director
agencies and committees.                          Protected Areas
- Provide direct supervision of
- Provide administrative                       park organization and
management andfinancial                        development.
support.
- Create monitoring and
- Arrange and assign                           supervision plans.
technical assistance.
- Oversee infrastructure
management planning and
implementation.
- Promote public participation
and public awareness.
ICZM Centre
- Act as a liaison between the World Bank, involved Government agencies and committees and park administration.
- Provide guidance and oversight of environmental procedures for the development and implementation of the KNP.
- Oversees and manages financial grants and external financial resources available for the implementation and development of the project.
-Assists in identifying and providing technical assistance and support.
21



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                   January 20, 2001
APPENDIX A
Kolkheti National Park Environmental Review Activities & Schedule:
Date                       Activity                    Areas of Investigation & Discussion              Informants /Meetings
18/06/00       Introductory meeting at the Georgia Integrated   -  Impacts of the park on surrounding  -  Ms. Rita Cestti: World Bank
Coastal Management Project (GICMP) office      communities                               representative:
with representative of the Project         -  Protection of traditional rights       -  Ms. Nino Chkhobadze: Minister,
Implementation Unit (PIU), World Bank (WB)  -  Development opportunities and activities  Ministry of Environment
and Ministry of Environment (MoE).            for communities adjacent to park       -  Mr. Mamuka Gvilava: Director of PIU
boundaries                            -  Ms. Keti Chomakhidze: GICMP Team
-  Presentation of management plans and       Member
policies to the public.
-  Importance of a good public participation
program
19/06/00 &     Initial meeting and orientation with the PIU  -  Existing documents relating to the   -  Mr. Mamuka Gvilava: PIU Director
20/06/00       team. These meetings reviewed the projects'    Kolkheti protected areas               -  Ms. Keti Chomakhidze: GICMP Team
objectives and current status.             -  Laws relevant to the implementation,       Member
organization and management of the park
-  Current situation in and around the park
-  Possible informants and possible routes
for site visit.
-  Orientation to the national and local
political situations
-  Review of area maps
-  Review or management Guidelines and
recommendations for infrastructure
development
22/06/00       Site inspection of the northern section of the  -  Knowledge about the creation of the park  Informants included:
park consisting of the Anaklia - Churia area.    -  Types of fish and fishing methods used  -  Fisher people
The inspection included sections of the coastal  with in the park                    -  IDPs residing in tourist facilities on
beach, dunes, wetlands and habitat along the  -  Hunting activities with-in the park     the park boundary
Churia river. Informal conversations and   -  Situation and living conditions of     -  Loggers
interviews were conducted with a variety      Internally Displaced People (IDPs)     -   Firewood collectors
people in this area.                           residing in Anaklia                   -  Boatman
-  Logging activities being conducted in the   -  Hunting reserve guards and personnel
park.                                 -  Mr. Nekechebia: Land Tax collector
-  Existing wildlife in the park and          Egeri.
population trends
22



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                   January 20, 2001
Date                       Activity                    Areas of Investigation & Discussion              Informants /Meetings
-  Access into the remote areas of the park
-  Human activity on the coast from Churia
river to the Khobi River
23/06/00       -  Meeting with representatives of the Poti    In Poti:                               Poti:
Municipality                           -  Reason for the site inspection         -  Mr. Irakli Motserelia: Vice Mayor of
-  Site visit to southern border of the park in   -  Introduction and orientation to flood  Poti
Guria region near Supsa and Lanchkhuti     control measures in Poti that impact Lake  -  Mr. Amzor Tkebuchava: Mayor's
-  Site visit to The Nabada section of the park  Paliastomi and sections of the park     Advisor on Ecology
from Kulevi along the coast to the Rioni    -  Site selection for future park
river                                      administration and visitor facilitates  Lanchkhuti/Supsa & Kulevi:
Lanchkhuti/Supsa area:                    -  Residents
-  Current use of park land for cattle grazing  -  Cattle owners
-  Economic importance of Peat extraction    -  Construction personnel
activities for the area               -  Loggers
Kulvei:
-  Current construction of oil terminus and
its impact on the community and
environment
-  Transportation routes and access to Poti
along the coast.
-  Sections of the park that were used as
military training facilities.
24/06/00       Site inspection of Paliastomi Lake area and  -  Environmental situation of the Lake   -  Mr. Amzor Tkebuchava: Mayor's
Pichori River route                        -  Possible mitigation and recuperation       Advisor on Ecology
activities                            -   Mr. Giorgi: Poti Eco-police
-  Enforcement of fishing and hunting     -  Local boat operators
regulation along the lake and the Pichori
river
-  Environmental degradation of the lake
because of salt water intrusion
-  Peat extraction activities and their
impacts
-  Planned Eco-tourist activities
-  Logging activities in the area and access
to strict control areas.
-  Placement and purpose of viewing
stations
26/06/00       Meeting to update PIU Director on site      -  Sensitivity in certain regions to the  -  Mr. Mamuka Gvilava: PIU Director
inspection activities                          establishment of the park             -  Ms. Keti Chomakhidze: GICMP Team
-  Local perception of how the park will      Member
23



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                 January 20, 2001
Date                       Activity                   Areas of Investigation & Discussion             Informants /Meetings
effect the local economy
-  Communication and collaboration with
local authorities
30/06/00       Site visit of the Kobuleti Nature Reserve  -  Local feelings and awareness about the    Informants Included: Kobuleti residents
creation of the KNP                   -  Fisher people
-  Current usage of the area for fishing,  -  Trash dumpers (illegal)
hunting and waste disposal            -  Reserve warden (Mr. Dato)
-  Importance of the area as a RAMSAR site
06/07/00       Report to the Kolkheti Protective Areas    -  Informed the council on the review    Advisory Council Attendees:
Advisory Council                              process                               -  Ms. Nino Chkhobadze: Minister of the
-  Greatest challenges facing the            Environment
development of the park               -  Mr. Beso Lobjanidze: Deputy Head of
the Dept. of Protected Areas
-  Mr. Tariee Beridze: Deputy Head of
the Dept. of Urbanization &
Construction
-  Mr. Mikheil Kuzkhuli: Head of the
Division, Ministry of Health
-  Mr. Gia Guazava: Parliamentary
Committee Head of the Subcommittee
of protected Areas Committee of
Environmental Protection & Natural
Resources
-  Mr. Mamuka Gvilava: PIU Director
-  Ms. Keti Chomakhidze: GICMP Team
Member
13/07/00       -  Meeting with the Director and staff of the   DPA:                                Dept. Of Protected Areas:
Department of Protected Areas         -  Administrative structure of the        -  Mr. Ramaz Shishniashvili: Head of the
-  Meeting with a representative from the     Department to manage the park             Dept. of Protected Areas
World Wildlife Fund (WWF)             -  Staff training needs                   -  of the Environment
-  Challenges and procedures for         -  Mr. Beso Lobjanidze: Deputy Head of
transferring land from on government      the Dept. of Protected Areas
department to another                 -  Mr. Zaal Sikharylidze- Deputy Head
-  The need and recruitment for a Park       Dept. of Protected Areas
Director                              -  Mr. Gogi Giorgobiani: Head of the
-  Additional information about managing     Division of Fauna
RAMSAR sites                          -  Mr. Avto Mikaberidze: Chief
-  Remnants of Soviet protected areas        Specialist of Department
-  Need to update laws.                  -  Ms. Elizbar Menteshashvili: Chief
Specialist of Department
-  Mr. Mamuka Gvilava: PIU Director
24



KNP Environmental Review                                                                                                   January 20, 2001
Date                       Activity                    Areas of Investigation & Discussion              Informants /Meetings
WWF:                                      -  Ms. Keti Chomakhidze: GICMP Team
-  Assistance provided in the development     Member
of the Kolkheti protected Areas       WWF:
management Guidelines                 -  Mr. Nugzar Zazanashvili: Head of
-  WWF's experience as a implementing         Conservation
organization for the newly formed
Borjomi National Park
-  Importance of inclusion of the public into
the planning process.
-  Availability of good digital maps of the
area for planning purpose.
-  Construction of appropriate shelters and
facilities.
-  Need for developing databases for long
term research efforts regarding wildlife
and land usage.
-  Planning and implementation of
mitigation for adverse environmental
impacts.
-  Development of the EMP
-  Linking development activities in the
Buffer Zone to park development.
25



