Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17131 GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.2 MILLION
AND A
GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $1.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
INTEGRATED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 24, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00= 1.4 Georgian Lari
US$1.00 = 0.71 Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
(October 31, 1998)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIOC               Azerbaijan International Oil Consortium
BSEP               Black Sea Environmental Program
BS-SAP             Strategic Action Plan for the Rebabiiitation and Protection of the Black Sea
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CEQMIS             Coastal Environmental Quality Monitoring and Information System
CQ                 Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
DPA                Department of Protected Areas, Nature Reserves and Hunting Management (Department
of Protected Areas)
EA                 Environmental Assessment
ESW                Economic and Sector Work
EU TACIS           European Union Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
GEF                Global Environment Facility
GICMP              Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
GIS                Geographic Information System
GoG                Government of Georgia
GPC                Georgia Pipeline Company
GPN                General Procurement Notice
IBRID              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
!CZM               integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
[MO                International Maritime Organization
IPIECA             Intemnational Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association
IS                 International Shopping
KNP                Kolkheti National Park
KNR                Kobuleti Nature Reserve
LCC                Local,Consultative Commission
LCS                Least Cost Selection
MEFRI              Marine Ecology and Fisheries Research Institute
MIRP               Georgia Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
MTS                Management Information System
MoE                Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Protection (Ministry of Environment)
MoUC               Ministry of Urbanization and Constuction
NBF                Not-Bank Financed
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NEA"               National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NS                 National Shopping
PAG                Project Advisory Group
PCD                Project Concept Document
PIP                Project Implementation Plan
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
QBS                 Quality-8ased Selection
QCBS               Quality and Cost-Based Selection
Ramsar Convention   Convention on the Protection of Wetlands of International Importance
SCC                State Consultative Commission for ICZM
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SFB                 Selection Under a Fixed Budget
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
SPN                 Special Procurement Notice
TF                 Trust Fund
TOR                Terms of Reterence
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
WHO                 World Health Organization
WWF                 World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:    Judy rM O'Connor, ZCC03
Sector Director      Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader:       Mehele De Nevers, ECSSD
Program Team Leader. Kann J. Shepardsons, ECSSD



Georgia
Integrated Coastal Management Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................                                            2
1. Project development objective and key perfortnance indicators ...................... 2
B.  Strategic Context ....................................................                                                       3
1.  Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ...................................... 3
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................ 4
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................... 5
C. Project Description Summary ....................................................                                             5
1. Project components ................................................                                                  6
2.  Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project ....................... 9
3. Benefits and target population ...................................,                                                   9
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................                                     10
D. Project Rationale .....................................                                                                     12
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................ 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and GEF and/or other
development agencies ...................................................                                      13
3.  Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design ........................... 13
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................. 14
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................... 14
E. Summary Project Analyses ...................................................                                              14
1.  Economic analysis ...................................................                                        14
2.  Financial analysis ...................................................                                        15
3.  Technical analysis ...................................................                                        15
4.  Institutional analysis ...................................................                                     16
5.  Social analysis ...................................................                                           16
6.  Environmental assessment ...................................................                                   17
7.  Participatory approach ...................................................                                    17
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................................................                                               19
1. Sustainability ...................................................                                              19
2.  Critical risks ...................................................                                             19
3.  Possible controversial aspects ...................................................                              20
G. Main Loan Conditions ...................................................                                                  21
1.  Agreements Reached Prior to Negotiations ........................................ 21
2.  Agreements Reached at Negotiations ............................................. 21
3. Negotiations Conditions .............................................                                          21



4. Effectiveness Conditions ........................              21
5. Disbursement Conditi ........................                  21
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                 22
1. Compliance with Bank Policies      ..                 ...................... 22
Annexes
Annex 1       Project Design Summary
Annex 2       Project Description
Annex 3       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4       Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5       Financial Summary
Annex 6        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7        Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8        Documents in the Project File
Annex 9        Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
Annex 10       Country at a Glance
Annt 11        GEF Incremental Cost Analysis
Annex 12       President of Georgia Decree
Tables
Annex 6, Table Al    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Annex 6, Table A2    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Annex 6, Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Annex 6, Table C    Procurement Plan
Annex 6, Table Dl    Estimated Disbursements IDA Credit
Annex 6, Table D2    Estimated Disbursements GEF Grant
Annex 6, Table El    Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Annex 6, Table E2    Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds
Annex 11, Table F    Incremental Cost Matrix
Maps
Map I               Georgia and the Black Sea
Map 2               Black Sea Coast and Wetlands Area, Project Sites



Georgia
Integrated Coastal Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECCO3
Date: November 24,1998                   Program Team Lead&r: Karin J. Shepardson
Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor       Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID:   Sector: Environment        Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
GE-5091 1                                Development
GEF Supplement ID: GE-60009              Focal Area: Biodiversity
Lending Instrument: IDA Credit and GEF   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [] Yes  [X] No
Grant
Project Financing Data     [  Loan      [X] Credit      [] Guarantee   [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount IDA: SDR 3.2 million (US$m 4.4 equivalent)
Proposed GEF: SDR 1.0 million (US$m 1.3 equiv .;ent)
terms:
[X ] Multicurrency    []  Single Currency, specify SDR
Grace period 10           [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
(years):
Years to 35
maturity:
Commitment 0.5%           On undisbursed credit balance (begins 60 days after signing unless waiver)
fee:
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                        Local             Foreign          Total
Government of Georgia                             0.9                0.0              0.9
IDA                                               1.8                2.6              4.4
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                 1.3                0.0              1.3
Government of the Netherlands (Grant)             0.0                1.0              1.0
Total          4.0                3.6              7.6
Borrower: Government of Georgia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Environment
Estimated disbursements (Bank  1999      2000       2001       2002       2003      2004
FY/US$M):
(Combined IDA/GEF)               0.5       0.8        2.0        1.3        0.8        0.3
Annual
Cumulative      0.5       1.3        3.3       4.6         5.4       5.7
Project implementation period: 5.5 years Expected effectiveness date: Jan. 15, 1999 Expected closing date:
Dec. 30, 2004



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Project development objective: The project aims to strengthen institutions in Georgia to manage
the coastal resources of the Black Sea by developing, testing and evaluating methods to
effectively integrate environmental planning and management into economic development
activities along the Black Sea coast.
Global development objective: The project also aims to assist Georgia in meeting its international
commitments under the Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP) and to implement priority
actions outlined in the Georgia Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan. These priorities include
conservation of biodiversity at sites of international significance on Georgia's Black Sea coast,
such as the Kolkheti and Kobuleti wetland Ramsar sites; restoration of degraded habitats and
resources within the Black Sea Large Marine Ecosystem; and participation in regional efforts to
manage and sustain public goods of a transnational character.
In line with these objectives, the project will work closely with the Ministry of Environment
(MoE) and other key Agencies to carry out the following:
(a)    Establish an institutional framework for integrated planning and management of
Georgia's coastal resources that emphasizes coordination between stakeholders at the
national level and active participation of communities and interest groups at the local
level;
(b)    Restore and protect critical resources within coastal ecosystems through concrete actions
at the local, national and regional levels such as community outreach and education;
introduction of controls on tree and reed harvesting, peat mining, and fishing; and
promotion of community based management and sustainable economic activities;
(c)    Establish an environmental quality monitoring system and information network to
support Georgia's national program of integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) and
complement monitoring efforts under the regional BSEP;
(d)    Enhance Georgia's ability to assess and address urgent coastal erosion concerns through
identification of cost-effective solutions for follow-on investments;
(e)    Develop a national oil spill contingency plan and oil pollution management capability for
Georgia, and assist the country in meeting its international commitments under
Conventions and Protocols for protection of the Black Sea Environment.
Key performance indicators include:
(a)   Intersectoral consultative commissions for ICZM established and functioning according
to agreed objectives and procedures at national and local levels
(b)    Georgians trained in coastal resource planning and management tools (EA, land use
planning/zoning; protected area management; GIS) and public awareness and conflict
resolution techniques
(c)    Draft legislation outlining mandate and responsibilities of a coastal authority and codes of
conduct for coastal resource/landscape use prepared
(d)    Legal status of KNP and KNR established and boundaries demarcated
(e)    Encroachment, illegal poaching and harvesting rates reduced over baseline conditions
(f)   Information node for Black Sea regional environmental monitoring network established
in Georgia
(g)    Computer links and information sub-nodes in collaborating institutions up and running
(h)    Oil spill contingency plan and financing plan developed and approved by governnent
2



(i)    Significant private sector involvement in oil pollution fund capitalization
(j)    Cost-effective options to address coastal erosion and municipal water use priorities
identified
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project.
CAS document number: 17000-GE Date of latest CAS discussion: September 12, 1997
(a) Protecting the environment and supporting sustainable natural resource management is one
of four main CAS objectives for Georgia. Among the associated issues identified in the CAS are:
(i) that environmental concerns are not effectively integrated into economic policies; and that (ii)
institutional arrangements to facilitate the mainstreaming of environmental planning and
management into economic sectors are weak. The lack of intersectoral coordination--particularly
in mainstreaming environment and natural resources management concerns into economic
sectoral planning--contributes to fragmentation of environmental management, particularly in
water relat,d sectors, at-l. failure to address root causes of environmental degradation. The
project will address the CAS priority in environment through activities which (i) will target
Georgia's capacity for integrated management of the diverse economic sectors developing along
Georgia's Black Sea coast and (ii) increase Georgia's capacity to mitigate impacts and reverse
trends of environmental degradation in the coastal zone.   This will be achieved through
institutional arrangements for interministerial coordination and stakeholder consultation in coastal
development planning; through strengthening of the regulatory and enforcement framework for
use of coastal landscapes and resources; through monitoring and disseminating information on the
condition of coastal resources to guide decision making and build public support for protection of
the Black Sea ecosystem; and through preventive measures to minimize environmental
degradation and related economic impacts due to oil pollution and coastal erosion.
(b) GEF Operational Strategy / program objectives addressed by the project: The proposed
operation supports the objectives of the GEF Biodiversity focal areaunder operational programs
for both Coastal, Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems and Forest Ecosystems. Activities will
concentrate on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in coastal forest wetlands and
nearshore waters of Georgia which are of international importance. The Kolkheti and Kobuleti
Wetlands along the Black Sea Coast of Western Georgia were designated as Ramsar sites
(wetlands of international importance) and provide critical habitat for numerous species of
migratory and wintering birds. These wetlands along the eastern coast of the Black Sea harbor
exceptional levels of species richness and endemism, unique higher order taxa and rare habitat
types.  The project will support the conservation of these wetlands through establishment of
Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve, significantly expanding the existing area
under protection and supporting implementation of their management plans. In so doing the
project will assist Georgia in taking some of the first steps toward implementing its proposed
national system of protected areas. In parallel with these efforts the project will introduce the use
of integrated coastal management tools, such as coastal monitoring to evaluate trends in key
physical and biological parameters within and outside protected areas. It will also help create
integrated land use plans for proposed future development of coastal landscapes (including urban
and port expansions adjacent to these wetlands), and adoption of zoning measures, engineering
best practices, environmental assessment guidelines, and codes of conduct for economic activities
in the coastal zone.
The project will complement objectives under the GEF International Waters focal area by
initiating actions to address transboundary issues such as oil pollution from accidental and
3



operational spills related to the transshipment of Caspian Sea oil via Georgian ports along the
Black Sea, and by introducing a monitoring program for water quality, biodiversity and other
indicators of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystem  health.    These actions are linked to
implementation of the Bucharest Convention, and the related Strategic Action Plan for the
Rehabilitation and Protection of the Black Sea. By carrying out these activities Georgia will
demonstrate its leadership role in the region in advancing the shared objective of rehabilitating
and protecting a global public good-the Black Sea Large Marine Ecosystem.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Black Sea plays a crucial role in the welfare of Georgia's population. Not only does it
provide essential goods and crucial links to markets in Europe for oil and other products, but it
has intrinsic ecological value and deeply rooted cultural and historic significance. Sustainability
of Georgia's economic growth will depend, in part, on the gover'ment of Georgia's ability to
integrate development of the many productive sectors of the Black Sea Coast (including fisheries,
marine transport, oil production, tourism, agriculture and forestry) into the national economy in a
way that does not diminish the natural and cultural values of this region, nor undermine its long-
term productivity. Over the past decades, uncontrolled pollution from point and non-point
sources (particularly from the Danube drainage basin), coastal erosion intensified by human
intervention, over-fishing, alien species introductions, and off-shore dumping in the region have
devastated the Black Sea and its littoral zone. Now transshipment of Caspian Sea oil through
Georgia to the Black Sea holds out the promise of significant revenues all the while threatening
prospects for managing pollution risks along the Black Sea coast, rehabilitating once productive
coastal fisheries and wetlands, and revitalizing the tourism industry. The construction of an oil
pipeline terminal and offshore loading facility at Supsa, along the central coast of Georgia,
creates a substantial new risk from oil spills to the adjacent Kolkheti wetlands and the nearshore
marine environment of Georgia.   Coastal erosion, aggravated by engineering works and
regulation of rivers upstream, also threatens expension of ports and tourism in centers along the
coast.  Lost revenues from  these traditional sectors and the costs of mitigating future
environmental impacts from oil spills, erosion and urban pollution could have serious impacts on
public sector resources and places strategic importance on sound environmental management
systems. The forest and wetland ecosystems of KNP and KNR in particular are under threat as a
result of drainage of wetlands for agriculture and urban expansion, forest harvesting, illegal
hunting, peat and gravel mining, pollution and invasion by non-native species.
With the change to a parliamentary democracy, Georgia has entered a new phase of
environmental activism. The Ministry of Environment (MoE), responsible for coordinating
government efforts to protect and conserve the country's environment, has made important
progress toward strengthening legal and regulatory instruments for improved enviromnental
management in Georgia and has promoted the approval of major pieces of environnental
legislation.    These include the "Environment Protection Law" (1996); the "Law  on
Environmental Permits" and the "Law  on State Ecological Expertise".    A  National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) prepared with Bank and Government of Netherlands
assistance, has been recently completed and is being proposed for formal adoption by the
Government.  The NEAP prioritizes investments to improve Georgia's environment and has
identified implementation of a comprehensive Coastal Zone Management Program as one of six
"highest priority" investments.
Georgia has signed and ratified the Bucharest Convention for the Protection of the Black Sea
Against Pollution (1992), signed the Odessa Ministerial Declaration (1993), and signed the
Strategic Action Plan for the Rehabilitation and Protection of the Black Sea (1996). The Strategic
Plan identifies specific goals directly related to the ICZM process, namely: (i) adoption of a
4



strategy and guidelines for the rehabilitation and the protection of the Black Sea, (ii)
establishment of a national inter-sectoral ICZM Commission and (iii) adoption and
implementation of national legal and other instruments required to facilitate integrated coastal
zone management.
The Government of Georgia ratified the Convention on Biodiversity in June 1994. Georgia has
not yet ratified the Bonn Convention, addressing conservation of migratory species and
transboundary ecosystems. However in bilateral agreements with its neighbors Georgia has
reached agreements reflecting the Bonn Convention provisions. The National Biodiversity
Strategy / Action Plan, currently in draft and expected to be finalized in 1998, has identified the
KNP/KNR region as a center for biodiversity and project activities as a high priority for future
investment. The framework legislation on Protected Areas System was adopted in 1996 and the
law on Wild Fauna Protection was adopted in 1997.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In line with the NEAP and recent developments in environmental legislation, the proposed project
supports the govemment's interests in strengthening institutional capacity for environmental
management and ensuring that development along the Black Sea Coast is consistent with
principles of environmentally and socially sustainable development. This will involve land use
planning, consultation with and participation of local stakeholders, environmental assessment and
information tools to inform investment decisions and to promote a system of multiple, sustainable
use, consistent with Georgia's national development plans. It will also involve the drafting of
legislation that will clarify the roles and responsibilities of line agencies operating in the coastal
zone, and the policy and legal framework under which economic activities in these sectors should
proceed.
Such an integrated approach is essential to achieving Georgia's biodiversity conservation
objectives, within a proposed system of protected areas, as supported by the draft National
Biodiversity Strategy. Protection of internationally important wetlands along Georgia's Black
Sea coast at Kolkheti and Kobuleti-will be the objective of legislation now pending in
Parliament to establish these sites as national parks within the nation's system of protected areas.
Increasing public awareness through information collection and dissemination, environmental
education and participation in coastal planning through local consultative committees and the
support of NGOs and the clergy is an underlying theme in all components of the project. This
strategic approach will not only increase ownership of the project by stakeholders, it will improve
prospects for sustainability of integrated coastal management beyond the life of the project.
Finally, the project will support Georgia's international commitments to protect the Black Sea
through legislation, research and environmental monitoring and information exchange, in line
with recommendations outlined in the national ICZM report prepared in 1996 under the auspices
of the Black Sea Environmental Program.
C: Project Description Summary
The project is designed as a first step in the development of a national program for Integrated
Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) in Georgia and the implementation of the regional Black Sea
Strategic Action Plan. Consistent with the need to build a strong institutional base as a
foundation for ICZM, the emphasis of this initial project is on capacity building, creating an
enabling environment for the introduction of improved management techniques, and focusing
investments in the coastal zone. The project scope, therefore, includes the following components:
5



Component           Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-wc    GEF':       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   (IJS$M)  financing
(IDA/GEF)
ICZM Institutional     Institution-       1.5        19       1.2         0.1       17%
Capacity Building      building/
Project
Management
Establishment of       Physical/          3.3        43       1.4         1.2       34%
Kolkheti National Park  Institutional
and Kobuleti Nature
Reserve
Establishment of       Physical/          1.9        25       1.8         0         24%
Coastal Environmental  Institutional
Quality Monitoring &
Infomiation Systems
Evaluation of Coastal   Policy/           0.5         6.5     0           0          0
Erosion                Institution
Building
Oil Spill Emergency    Policy/            0.5         6.5     0           0          0
Response               Institution-
I building
Total                            7.6        100      4.4         1.3        57.4
1. Project Components:
Component 1. ICZM Institutional Capacity-Building ($1.5 million)
This component aims to establish an institutional and legal framework for Integrated Coastal
Management in Georgia through the development of institutional arrangements to facilitate
intersect.oral planning and the participation of key stakeholder groups in coastal resource decision
making. This will be achieved through the creation of: (i) a State Consultative Commission for
ICZM; i(ii) the Working Group for the Advancement of ICZM; and (iii) three Local ICZM
Consuluttive Commissions along the Black Sea Coast. In addition to these institutional
arrangenments, the project will also support the drafting of legislation that will, inter alia, clarify
administrative authority for various activities/functional responsibilities in the coastal zone,
articulate national policies and regulations for the use of coastal and marine resources, and
develop codes of practice for development activities in the coastal zone. This component
supports and promotes public awareness on coastal management issues through training and mass
media. It also introduces participatory based land use planning techniques and will help finalize
the National Park and Nature Reserve management plans.
A State Consultative Commission for ICZM (SCC) was formally established by Presidential
Decree prior to project negotiations. The SCC, coordinated by the Ministry of Environment and
the Ministry for Urbanization and Construction as lead agencies for ICZM, would consist of
representatives of relevant government sectors and planning agencies, local authorities, academia,
private sector, and the public. This body will serve as the principal forum for interp-eting and
6



coordinating existing policies among the various sectors/stakeholders involved in coastal and
marine resource use along Georgia's Black Sea Coast. It will also be instrumental in guiding the
drafting of legislation for the Coastal Zone.
The Working Group for the Advancement of ICZM (ICZM WG) will be established as a multi-
disciplinary entity housed in the Ministry of Environment, but with the full technical support of
relevant ministries operating in the Coastal Zone. The WG will consist of staff from these
ministries, who will be trained on state of the art equipment in the use ofGIS and other ICZM
tools and techniques for integrated planning and management of the coastal zone. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with executive powers for overall project supervision and
coordination, and contracting and disbursement oversight in accordance with Government and
Bank procedures, will be housed within the MoE. The PIU/ICZM WG will also serve as the
secretariat for the SCC.
The PIU/ICZM WG will help establish a network of three Local ICZM Consultative
Commissions (LCCs) in: Poti, Kolkheti, and Batumi. The purpose of the LCCs is to encourage
stakeholder participation in establishing ICZM priorities at the municipal and local levels, where
decisions by i -source users most closely affect the state of nearshore coastal ecosystems. The
project rvill assist LCCs to facilitate and conduct community meetings and establish offices as a
resource center for public comment and information. In Kolkheti, the primary purpose of the
LCC (KNP Local Advisory Council) woulc )e to serve as a community based advisory body to
the National Park (mandated by protected area legislation). As part of its advisory functions, the
Kolkheti LLC will also provide input to park management plans and their implementation. The
Poti and Batumi LCCs would be more broadly focused and would involve multiple stakeholders
from different economic as well as social sectors, including the public sector, private and
nongovernmental entities, and the clergy. The set-up and initial operation of these commissions
and KNP Council will be facilitated by PIU field coordinators in Poti and Batumi.
Component 2. Establishment of the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve
($3.2 million)
The objective of this protected areas component of the GICMP is to improve the protection and
management of threatened forest and wetland natural habitats within theKolkheti coastal region,
and to integrate these protected areas into the broader development objectives of the coastal
management project.
Under the project, support would be provided for: (a) conservation of the biodiversity of the
Kolkheti region through protection, management, and restoration of unique plant communities;
(b) establishment of infrastructure for improved biodiversity protection and development of
nature-based tourism in the region; (c) improved monitoring and applied research onbiodiversity
and the effectiveness of conservation efforts; (d) protection of fish spawning grounds necessary
for the protection of freshwater and marine biodiversity and their sustainable use; and (e)
recovery of threatened agricultural biodiversity.
Proposed activities include:
(a)    Creation of Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve. Legislation pending in
Parliament would establish Kolkheti National Park (KNP), as the first National Park in a
series of Protected Areas in Georgia. Adoption of this legislation will be a condition of
disbursement on project component 2 (Section G3 (a)). All earmarked territory to be
included in the KNP (approximately 44,850 hectares) will be state owned land and any
potential user right issues would be settled at the time of the adoption of the legislation.
7



The proposed protected area will include different zones for varying degrees of
management and activities including: a strict nature zone, a managed nature zone, a
recuperation zone, a visitor zone, and a support zone in which existing agricultural and
cultural activities would remain. The Kobuleti Nature Reserve (KNR), located adjacent
to the Kolkheti wetlands 0.5 - 1.0 km from the coast, would encompass an area of 778
hectares (Map 2). The project would finalize and implement the management plans for
Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve. These management plans will
consolidate measures to improve protection and management of the biodiversity of the
KNP and KNR, including restoration of degraded habitats, control of illegal logging and
hunting, and monitoring. The management plan will integrate the park's biodiversity
protection functions with regional development needs, such as tourism, sustainable
agriculture and flood protection.
(b)   Institutional Development. Support to Park Administration and Management. The project
would assist with development of an effective park administration and management,
through the foliowing:
(i)    Protected Area Advisory Council. A local advisory council would be established
to advise the directors of the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Reserve and
stakeholders in the support zone on issues related to establishment and operation
of these protected areas. The advisory council would be comprised inter alia of
community representatives, the private sector, NGOs, Department of Forestry,
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment, affected municipalities, and
tourism authorities. This advisory council will advise the Department of
Protected Areas on such issues as dispute resolution with local communities
related to establishment and operation of the protected areas. The advisory
council will also assist, in concert with the mass media program, in disseminating
information on project issues to local communities.
(ii)   Professional Development and Training. Professional development and training
activities would be provided to administrative, scientific, and warden staff of the
protected areas. This training will include principles and practices of national
park administration, revenue generation, general management and conflict
resolution techniques, and development of nature-based tourism and other
economic activities for generating income to support the park system. The parks
administration training would result in production of an operation and
administration plan, including final job descriptions for all staff. Key park staff
and specialists responsible for management regimes for the protected areas will
receive training in natural resources management. Wardens will be trained in
patrolling and enforcement.
(c)    Biodiversity Monitoring and Applied Research The project would implement monitoring
and applied research undertaken by park staff and specialist consultants to guide park
management and evaluate the effectiveness of restoration activities. The activities to be
undertaken include:
(i)    Monitoring: Assessments to fill gaps in existing information onbiodiversity as a
basis for National Park management in collaboration with EU TACIS. Following
the collection of these data, specific biological and water quality parameters
would be monitored by park staff and specialists. The parameters, study designs,
and the monitoring sites would be formulated to develop a baseline that would
assist in evaluating the effectiveness of measures undertaken to improve the
8



management and protection of the biodiversity of KNP and KNR. These
monitoring activities would complement rather than duplicate those undertaken
under the coastal quality monitoring component of the Project, and would be
associated with the development of GIS-compatible databases.
(ii)   Research: This would include studies related to the restoration of degraded
habitats in the Park, analysis of eco-tourism potential and benefits to local
communities, and changes in biodiversity associated with management
interventions at the species and habitat levels.
Component 3.  Establishment of a Coastal Environmental Quality Monitoring &
Information System ($1.9 million)
Urgent needs for monitoring of coastal and off-shore water quality, bathing water, major ports,
rivers and estuaries and major point sources of pollution were identified in an initial regional
study, commissioned by BSEP/EU-TACIS in cooperation with the Regional BSEP Program
Coordination Unit (Istanbul). Project support would include: preparation of a feasibility study;
development of new monitoring standards and regulation; procurement of necessary
measurement, sampling, and analysis equipment for selected monitoring laboratories and
agencies; establishment of an information system to integrate and support the monitoring and
planning work; initiating a beach flag program; organization of training programs; and
establishment of a monitoring and information network with nodes in the PIU/ICZM WG and
collaborating institutions in Tbilisi, Poti, Kolkheti, Kobuleti, and Batumi.
Component 4. Evaluation of Coastal Erosion ($0.5 million)
Coastal erosion is a serious problem along many parts of the Georgian coast. Much of this
erosion has been accelerated by human intervention, including river diversion, lake
impoundment, sand mining and coastal engineering works. To assess the factors contributing to
coastal erosion, particularly in the risk-exposed areas of Poti (Rioni River-Mouth) and Batumi
(Chorokhi River-Mouth), the Government of the Nertherlands will finance a comprehensive
analysis of municipal water use (including watershed hydrology, sediment load, coastal
dynamics) and infrastructure primarily in Poti, and Batumi. Based on these studies a plan for
integrated municipal water management would be developed. These studies would include
analysis of cost effectiveness of existing interventions to control erosion and feasibility studies of
proposed options to address the most serious aspects of coastal erosion on a sustainable basis.
Investment requirements would be identified for future interventions.
Component 5. Development of a National Oil Spill Contingency Plan and Marine Pollution
Control Plan ($0.5 million)
To help Georgia implement the regional Black Sea Strategic Action Plan and to deal with existing
and future risks of oil pollution, the Government of the Netherlands will provide support for the
preparation, in accordance with IMO guidelines, of a national oil spill contingency plan and
emergency response program.   This national plan will cover vessels, ports, and offshore
installations and would be supported by municipal plans for the major port cities of Poti and
Batumi. The oil spill contingency plan currently being developed for the Supsa terminal and
environs by the Georgia Pipeline Company (GPC), would articulate with and be consistent with
standards identified under the National Oil Spill Contingency Plan.   Under this project
component, support would also be provided for development of proposals for port reception
facilities to deal with smaller operational spills and ship-based waste, and a user-based financing
mechanism for oil spill emergency response. As in the previous component, identification of
9



future investment opportunities for prevention and abatement of oil pollution (including
operational spills) would be an important part of the work carried out under this component.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project include: (a) introduction of a
participatorn and locally based decision-making process for coastal zone management; (b)
establishment of a framework for the introduction of economic instruments (including user fees
and pollution funds) to help alleviate the fiscal impact of recurrent costs for coastal and marine
environmental management and to serve as examples for cost recovery in other proposed
protected areas; (c) sectoral coordination and reduced fragmentation in the administration of
Georgia's Black Sea coast; (d) establishment of a National Park (Kolkheti National Park and
Kobuleti Nature Reserve) within the larger proposed System of Protected Areas of Georgia; (e)
the introduction of an environmental monitoring and information system consistent with
international standards for the Black Sea region.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: Th   tional economy and the public at large would benefit from the results of the
project. The main benefits of the project would be: (a) maintenance of productive ecosystems
and critical natural habitats in the freshwater, estuarine and nearshore waters along the Black Sea
Coast; (b) conservation of biodiversity and the demonstration of sustainable natural resource use
in and around the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve; (c) increased public
awareness related to ICZM; (d) improved coastal monitoring capacity and beach recreation
conditions; (e) improved legal framework for coastal land use, resource use and oil operations; (f)
increased overall capacity to manage the coastal zone for multiple use through the piloting of
participatory planning and management, conflict resolution, coastal information systems, and cost
recovery techniques.
Target population: Target populations include the communities living within the coastal zone,
communities living in and around the Kolkheti National Park, Poti and Batumi, and general users
of the coastal zone.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The majority of project activities will be completed within four years,
however, a period of six years will be required to implement the protected areas component of the
project. A six year period is typical for biodiversity investments in protected area planning and
management which require a firn foundation in local institutions, technical capacity, and public
awareness for sustainable implementation.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): A project advisory group (PAG) consisting of senior
representatives from the key agencies involved in project implementation and chaired by the
MoE, will provide project oversight and help resolve any interministerial coordination issues in
project implementation. The SCC for ICZM will provide overall policy guidance to the project.
Execuating agencies:
A national Working Group for the Advancement of ICZM, building on earlier efforts initiated by
the Ministry of Environment, will be established under the aegis of the Ministry of Environment.
It will consist of an interdisciplinary group seconded from the key ministries and departmnents
represented in the PAG. The MoE will house the ICZM WG and the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), thereby enhancing both technical and administrative capacity within theMoE. The
10



WG/PIU, under the supervision of the PIU Director, will have responsibility for project
implementation. It will coordinate with and be guided by an intersectoral policy and planning
body (the State Consultative Commission for ICZM), established by Presidential Decre,e
(Section Gl (d)). The MoE wilprovide administrative space for the ICZM WG/PIU (Section
Gl (g)).
Assignments of technical staff from the Ministry of Environment, Department of Protected Areas,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Urbanization and Construction and Ministry of Transport to the
ICZM WG will ensure collaboration of key ministries in the execution of the project, help
institutionalize technical expertise with the GoG, and build the foundation for cross sectoral
coordination in administration of the coastal zone. Through this process, the basis for creating a
national Center of Excellence in ICZM would be established, with prospects for decentralizing
activities to the coast, once integration of national and local government responsibilities were
more clearly defined.
With the creation of a national park and nature reserve at Kolkheti and Kobuleti, the Departmnent
of Protected Areas (DPA) will have an expanded role in management of these coastal wetlands.
The project will support training of these staff in technical and administrative aspects of protected
area management, and seconded DPA staff will work closely with the PIU in Tbilisi and with
field staff located on the coast to facilitate oversight of the KNP/KNR component and the
procurement of project related goods and services.
Project coordination:
The PIU will be responsible for coordinating with other donors, such as the Government of the
Netherlands, in the implementation of components which will be supported through parallel
cofinancing. A Project Implementation Plan has been developed, which describes the proposed
implementation arrangements in more detail.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
Financial Management: The project financial management system, incluaing accounting,
financial reporting and auditing arrangements, would be established prior to project
effectiveness (Section G2 (a)). The financial and accounting procedures, together with a
description  of  project  implementation  unit  (PIU)  responsibilities  for  financial,
manageriaL/technical and procurement are described in the Project Implementation Plan.
Accounting Information submitted to the Bank by the PIU would comply with international
accounting standards. Project accounts would be maintained by the PIU separately from any
other existing accounts. The PIU will manage two Special Accounts, one for the IDA Credit and
one for the GEF Grant. The PIU, with responsibility for orderly and efficient recording and
safeguarding of the project assets and resources, would: (a) ensure accountability for project
funds; (b) maintain records of the sources of funds (IDA/GEF/GOG) and the relevant accounts;
(c) maintain internal controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete and provided
on a timely basis; (d) report on the use of funds (IDA, GEF, GOG); (e) facilitate verification of
these reports by independent auditors; and (f) provide information, as required, to the Bank.
Financial Reporting. During project implementation, the PIU would submit to the Bank a semi-
annual Project Financial Management Report in the agreed format. The Report would include:
(a) summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by project categories of expenditures, showing the
IDA credit and GEF Grant in currency as determined by project design; (b) Summary of
Expenditures by project components, for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; (c)
Summary of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) by individual application reference number and
amount; (d) Special Account Statement providing reconciliation of amounts in the Special
11



Account; and (e) Expenditures Report by disbursement category during the current quarter and
next iquarter.
Financial Audit. The PIU would be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the
Bank, within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year the financial audits of the Project that are
acceptable to the Bank. The PIU would have the required Financial Statements for each year
audiled by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with standards that
are acceptable to the Bank (Section GI (e)). The auditor would be appointed in sufficient time to
carry out his/her responsibilities, including: (a) a review of the financial management systems at
the beginning of project implementation; and (b) periodical reviews of the project financial
manaLgement systems thereafter.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Project monitoring would be the responsibility of the PIU/ICZM WG and the MoE. The
PIU/ICZM WG and MoE would furnish the Bank with reports on a regular basis including:
(a) semi-annual progress and project financial management reports, (b) interim unaudited
statements ofproject accounts; and (c) additional information that the Bank may request from
time to time (Section GI (f)).
Performance monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken by the Bank to ensure close
monitoring of the achievements of project objectives during implementation. Key performance
indicators proposed for monitoring can be found in Annex 1. A mid-term evaluation would be
prepared during year three of the project. Lessons learned from implementation and the activities
financed under the project would be captured in a synthesis report prepared by the borrower with
the assistance of the PIU.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
A comprehensive and capital-intensive ICZM project addressing all major coastal degradation
and risks (including mitigation of impacts from coastal erosion and oil activities) was considered.
This was excluded as it would have made the project considerably more complex to prepare and
implement. It would also have required a much stronger institutional and legal framework, and a
different set of development priorities at the national level. In view of the perceived need for an
incremental approach, beginning with capacity building, focused actions were selected to target
institutional strengthening needs, regulatory and immediate technical needs related to coastal
manaLgement, biodiversity protection, and mitigation of growing risks from coastal erosion and oil
spills. The rational for GEF financing of this project is tied to biodiversity conservation
objectives and the successful development of a prototype for protected area management within
the larger framework of a proposed system of protected areas for Georgia.
Inclusion of a larger component dealing with oil spills, ports and ship-based waste was also
considered. This option was abandoned due to the uncertainty related to the "major oil"
operations in Georgia, the lack of baseline data, and the high cost of investments required. In
view of these reasons, the project will focus on analyzing risk and liability related to oil spills and
preparation of an oil spill contingency plan and emergency response capability for control of oil
pollution. Similarly, it was decided to limit the coastal erosion/municipal water resources use
component of the project to the preparation of priority management plan and feasibility studies to
address severe erosion and pollution problems in the coastal areas of Poti and Batumi for
implementation in a subsequent investment phase.
12



A separate biodiversity component through loan financing was also considered. Existing
government resources and international efforts directed to forest and wetland biodiversity will not
ensure the protection of globally significant biodiversity in the KNP and KNR designated areas.
The GEF Alternative, with an incremental cost of US$1.32 million, would provide the means for
the creation of KNP and KNR, the implementation of their management plans, and the integration
of biodiversity conservation principles into regional and local development planning. The scope
and global benefits of the GEF Alternative are further outlined in Annex 11.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and GEF and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Municipal Infrastructure            S                S
Rehabilitation - MIRP
Oil Institution Building            S                S
National Environmental             N/A              N/A
Action Plan (IDF/Bank)
Biodiversity Strategy and          N/A              N/A
Action
Plan (GEF/Bank)
Municipal Development and           S                S
Decentralization Project
Forestry Biodiversity Project     N/A               N/A
Agriculture II                    N/A               N/A
Cultural Heritage Project           S                S
Other development
agencies
UNDP/GEF (with Bank,   Regional Black Sea                     N/A              N/A
EU TACIS and UNEP          Environment Program
support)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory
N/A = Project not yet under supervision or does not use the Bank 590 form.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposedproject design:
The lessons from these and other Bank projects in the region underscore the need to (i) to obtain
support at the highest levels to ensure commitment to project objectives and the necessary
allocation of resources for the project; (ii) focus on institutional strengthening and capacity
building in the technical and policy areas (this is particularly true for Integrated Coastal Zone
Management, which requires an interdisciplinary approach).  Lessons also suggest that (iii)
13



simple focused projects tend to be more successful than complex and comprehensive
undertakings, (iv) and finally, building on existing PIUs to take advantage of knowledge and
networks formed earlier can advance project design while institutionalizing expertise.
Other valuable lessons for establishing integrated coastal management in Georgia come from
experience beyond the Black Sea, from regional environmental programs in the Baltic and
Mediterranean. These include the need to integrate coastal management planning into national
development plans; the need to build ownership of the project locally through public awareness
and involvement in project aesign and implementation; and the need to focus on project
sustainability and resource mobilization to ensure continuity beyond the project implementation
period.  The successful introduction of economic instruments such as user fees and pollution
fines/funds to finance environmental management has been demonstrated in many of the more
industrialized nations, and will be piloted in Georgia (to reduce costs of National Park
administration and finance oil spill response operations) under this project.
The GI4CM project design reflects the above mentioned lessons in the incremental approach of the
project which attempts to build a sound foundation for ICZM through institutional strengthening
and local participation. The project has been highly supported in Georgia, and its design is based
on substantial efforts of Georgian NGOs and government partners prior to the Bank's
involvement. Parallel co-financing and execution of the two of the five components by the
Government of Netherlands will help simplify the Bank's oversight of implementation. It will
also help encourage and strengthen the involvement of other donors to undertake complementary
activities within the project's framework. Georgians involved in the coastal management
component of the Municipal Infrastructure and Rehabilitation Project (MIRP) Credit have been
actively involved in the project design, and are expected to continue their involvement during
implementation of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Georgia has signed and ratified the Bucharest Convention for the Protection of the Black Sea
Against Pollution (1992), signed the Odessa Ministerial Declaration (1993), and signed the
Strategic Action Plan for the Rehabilitation and Protection of the Black Sea (1996). The
foundation for the project came out of activities under a GEF grant component of the World Bank
financed MIRP project, from Georgia's ongoing active involvement in the Regional Black Sea
activities, and from initiatives by local NGOs. All levels of Government (national, regional, and
local) have participated in the project design and provided direct and written inputs. The
Georlgian State Investment Council (chaired by the President), fully endorsed and approved the
project concept in its May, 1997 sess ia. The National Environmental Action Plan, a government
document involving broad consultation, identified introduction of a comprehensive Coastal Zone
ManaLgement Program as one of the highest priority investments. Implementation of the (smaller)
initial ICZM program under the MIRP was considered successful.
5. Value added of Bank and GEFsupport in this project.
Coastal zone issues in Georgia are complex and require technical expertise, supporting
institutional and legal frameworks, and solid financial support. Earlier ICZM  activities in
Georgia were initiated under the regional BSEP and a GEF Grant as part of a Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project. This current project is the next step, targeting concrete
interventions to improve the environmental quality of the Black Sea and ensure that future
development of its resources results in continuous and equitable benefits to Georgia without
negative impacts downstream. The Bank will facilitate this by providing the necessary financing
for the establishment of the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve. Bank support
14



under the project would also facilitate the development of legislation outlining the mandate and
responsibilities of an ICZM authority, and would help rationalize responsibilities between
agencies for activities and land use in the coastal zone. Through its role as broker, the Bank has
and will continue to mobilize donor support for ICZM  in Georgia.  The successful
implementation of the project should serve to provide valuable lessons learned for replication
within the coastal zone of Georgia, and in other Black Sea countries.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Analysis (supported by Annexes 4 and 11)
[] Cost-Benefit Analysis, qualitative discussion [ X]Cost Effectiveness Analysis (qualitative
discussion)
[X ] Incremental Cost
An economic assessment for the project summarizes the costs and benefits which are likely to
result from implementing the project. Costs identified included the total project costs ($7.6
million) and potential costs of foregone economic activity as a result of establishing theKolkheti
National Park. Overall benefits discussed included public health benefits; tourism benefits;
institutional benefits, or benefits gained by setting up more effective means for cooperation and
decision making; benefits from preservation of ecological resources including the functional
values of wetlands for flood protection, pollution filtration, and habitat values; benefits from
establishing of an oil spill prevention program; and non-use values of nature protection such as
existence values and bequest values. Although most of the benefits and some of the costs cannot
be quantified, the analysis provides a more in-depth discussion as to why they are important. The
discussion on tourism benefits examines a contingency valuation and a travel cost study that were
prepared as part of the regional Black Sea Environment Program to estimate potential gains or
economic rent that Georgia could recover in beach related tourism as the Black Sea environment
improves. What becomes apparent through the studies is that due to the trans-boundary nature of
the coastal pollution problems, Georgia cannot maximize it's tourism benefits without wider
regional cooperation. The project will support Georgia's participation in regional activities and
meeting its regional commitments as well as activities within Georgia's control that will reduce
coastal pollution.
The types of foregone economic activities due to establishing the National Park and Nature
Reserve are generally known (hunting, fishing, firewood collection, reed collection, and peat and
gravel mining), however the costs are not well identified. A number of measures have been taken
to minimize these costs in the project design through the local community consultation process
which considered these factors in agreeing to proposed park boundaries. The project has also
been designed to minimize economic costs from foregone activities to the extent possible through
local involvement in the operations and management of the National Park. No land tenure or
resettlement costs are anticipated because park boundaries were in part determined to avoid any
resettlement. Based on the benefits identified in the analysis, the interdependency of the quality
of the environment with its coastal uses, and the importance of Georgia's coast to the overall
economy, the incremental benefits are expected to outweigh the incremental costs for the
proposed project.
For the GEF component, the difference between the estimated total cost of the Baseline Scenario
US$7.07 million and the estimated cost of the GEF Alternative US$9.03 million is US$1.96
million, of which US$1.32 million is provided by GEF financing. This represents the incremental
cost for achieving sustainable global environmental benefits, as outlined in the Incremental Cost
Analysis in Annex 11.
15



2. Financial analysis (see Annex 5):
Fiscal impact:
Total government financing during the project implementation period is estimated to be $900,000
USI) equivalent which is less than 0.1% of the 1998 budget of Georgia. Since the government
contribution is spread over a six year period, the annual fiscal impact will be even less. The
project has been co-financed with a GEF Grant of US$1.3 million equivalent and a Netherlands
Government Grant of US$1.0 million equivalent to help reduce the fiscal burden of borro.ving for
this type of project. The project would not directly result in an increase in revenues to the
government, and may in the longer term result in some increased expenditures for operations and
maintenance of the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve. However, government
expenditures for operations and maintenance of KNP and KNR would be minimized since the
number of government staff positions are not expected to increase significantly, due to a transfer
of functions between the Forestry Department and the Department of Protected Areas. The
National Park would gradually develop the capacity to generate and retain funds through
introduction of user fees and other income earning activities which will help reduce pressure on
the state budget. Any tourism generated as a result of the project should also help increase
Georgia's tax base as a result of increased consumer spending.
3. Technical analysis:
The project is technically justified on the basis of the urgent need for coastal protection in
Geoirgia. This assessment is based on increasing risks from the transport, processing, and
production of oil, conversion of coastal wetlands and poaching of wildlife, coastal erosion,
contamination of surface and nearshore waters, and expanding port and urban sectors in the
absence of regional or local coastal management plans. On the international side, the increasing
deteirioration of environmental quality in the Black Sea and the costs of mitigating coastal and
marine degradation in the future, compel the countries of the region to act. The vulnerability of
internationally important biodiversity resources and lost revenues from fisheries, tourism and
other Black Sea amenities have evoked a commitment on the part of governments in the region to
act individually and collectively on behalf of the public good. The project components under the
project have been selected to address not only issues of immediate concern, but even more
importantly, to create the capacity among Georgians to respond to future acute or chronic crises
which could threaten the viability of productive Black Sea ecosystems. Investments under the
different components are keyed to similar activities in other parts of the world. On the
environmental quality monitoring side, equipment needs and training have been designed after
WHO standards introduced under the regional BSEP. International best practices are being
incorporated into the design of a coastal Information System, institutional strengthening, public
awareness and training, and a demonstration pilot within a proposed system of Protected Areas in
Georgia .
4. Institutional analysis:
a. Executing agencies: The ICZM WG and PIU would be responsible for technical coordination
and daily operation and monitoring of all program activities (working closely with theMoE, and
PAG and the national and local ICZM Commissions). Specific activities would include: drafting
of TORs and contracts for program components; identification and selection of program
contractors on a competitive basis; supervision of implementation; financial accounting; and
reporting to supervisors. The project would lay the foundation for transforming this unit and its
16



counterparts in the field into a Center of Excellence for ICZM through the hiring of additional
local staff, training, equipment, and technical assistance (national and international experts).
Procurement and disbursement of project goods and services for the KNP/KNR components
would be administered from the PIU. The establishment and operations of theKolkheti National
Park and the Kobuleti Nature Reserve would be governed by a law which has already passed the
first hearing in Parliament. The adoption of the law would be a condition for disbursement of that
component.
b. Project management: The Ministry of Environment (MoE) would be responsible for overall
project management. Broad consultation and inter-sectoral coordination on the complex issue of
ICZM would be enhanced by the creation of the State Interagency Consultative Commission
(SCC) and later the network of three Local Consultative Committees (LCCs), one in Poti, one in
Kolkheti, and one in Batumi. Close collaboration already exists between the MoE and the
Department of Protected Areas (DPA), a discrete, semi-autonomous governmental entity. Their
links would be further strengthened under the project.
5. Social analysis:
Participatory and infornation workshops were organized with local authorities under the initial
ICZM program, and subsequent consultation was done during project preparation. The project
design is based on the outcome of these activities and on the direct involvement of local
communities.
Local ICZM consultative commissions will be established in three key locations along the coast
(Poti, Batumi, and in the surrounding Kolkheti area) to ensure that benefits from the project are
targeted to coastal communities most at risk and to ensure stakeholder commitment to the project
and to its objectives well beyond the implementation period.
The Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Reserve project component has been designed in
collaboration with Georgian stakeholders and builds on earlier protected area planning initiatives
undertaken by Georgian NGOs in collaboration with the Govemnment of Georgia. Regional
Support Groups, facilitated by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Conservation Program in Georgia
and comprised of representatives from local government, civilian stakeholders, and media
organizations were established to raise public awareness of the proposed project activities and
ensure broad participation of local residents in planning and implementing comprehensive plans
for the proposed Protected Areas.
Particular emphasis during stakeholder discussions was given to efforts to develop management
plans for the support zone communities around the protected areas. This approach was pursued
with the objective of fostering a sustainable economic development of the support zones which
depend in part from resources located inside the protected areas, along with the development of
the nature reserves. For example, resource harvesting (fishing, hunting, forestry) will be allowed
in the support zones, but will be regulated and enforced. The National Park and Nature Reserve
staff would give technical assistance to help local people manage the resources sustainably.
There may be temporary or even permanent bans on certain activities, depending on the needs of
the ecosystem or resource. The National Park and Nature Reserve staff, Regional Support
Groups, and Protection Areas Advisory Council have been designed to help foster commtnity-
based management schemes and resolve disputes that could arise. The Kolkheti Local Protection
Areas Advisory Council, to be established under the project will participate in the activities of the
Regional Support Group for public awareness campaigns, field inventory, planning, and
implementation related to the management plan for the protected areas.
17



6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [ ] A  [ X] B [ ] C
Most of the project is focused on institutional strengthening, capacity building, and technical
assistance which, together with the protected areas component of the project, should have an
overall positive environmental impact. However, in the course of establishing the Kolkheti
National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve, limited civil works will be undertaken, such as
installation of a perimeter fence, visitor center, hiking trails/boardwalks, etc. Potential negative
impaLcts from this could include sedimentation, loss of a small fraction of the habitats within the
reserve area where such infrastructure is installed, and secondary and tertiary impacts from access
by construction workers, and later tourists, to the areas. Implementation and enforcement of park
and reserve management plans, which is one of the main objectives of the project, will help
cont-ol access and minimize any adverse impacts from tourism. The project area is already under
severe threat from illegal wood cutting and hunting activities and thus enforcement of park
regulations will benefit the environment by reducing current impacts from these activities. A
more detailed description of these benefits can be found in the economic analysis discussion.
An environmental review would be conducted in accordance with Georgian laws and the World
Bank operational directive 4.01 on environmental assessment, focusing on the Kolkheti National
Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve component. Since the design of any proposed civil works will
be cosmpleted as part of the project implementation, the World Bank's acceptance of this
environmental review would be a condition of disbursement on the Kolkhet/Robuleti project
conqmor.ent (Section G3 (b)). Any issues raised in the environmental review will be incorporated
in the construction bidding documents and the works will be carried out in accordance with
intennationally accepted practices to meet environmental requirements.
7. Pa2rticipatory approach:
The lproject has been developed with a participatory approach beginning with implementation of
the GEF component of the MIRP Project which identified the need for many of the key project
elements through small grants for participatory activities such as public awareness and outreach
by local NGOs, educational programs (summer camp) and poster contests for local school
children. Participatory and information workshops were also organized with local authorities
under the initial ICZM program, and subsequent consultation has been done during project
preparation. The project design is based on the outcome of these activities and on the direct
involvement of local communities.
The Kolkheti and Kobuleti Reserves project component has been designed in collaboration with
Georgian stakeholders. Regional Support Groups, facilitated by WWF Conservation Program in
Georgia and comprised of representatives from local government, civilian stakeholders, and
mediia organizations were established to raise public awareness of the proposed project activities
and ensure broad participation of local residents in planning and implementing comprehensive
plans for the proposed Protected Areas. Particular emphasis during stakeholder discussions was
given to efforts to develop management plans for the support zone communities around the
protected areas. Such approach was pursued with the objective of fostering a sustainable
economic development of the support zones which depend in part on resources located inside the
protected areas, along with the development of the nature reserves. Concrete actions resulting
from these were revisions to the proposed National Park boundaries.
Local consultative commissions will be established under the project in three key locations along
the ciDast (Poti, Batumi, and in the surrounding Kolkheti area) to ensure that benefits from the
project are targeted to coastal communities and to ensure stakeholder commitment to the project
and tD its objectives well beyond the implementation period. The Local Advisory Council for
18



Kolkheti will provide a forum to manage and ensure that local community interest are protected,
and technical training under the project will include workshops in management and conflict
resolution. In addition, all efforts will be made to ensure that local citizens andNGOs benefit
from the establishment of the Park, especially through their involvement in park management
activities. The Kolkheti Protected Area Management Plan calls for technical assistance in
alternative forest and land use and agriculture in support zones to find win/win solutions for
sustainable goods/services for the local people as well as environmental benefits of preserving
biodiversity.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries of the project are
Beneficiaries/community groups   CON/COL'             CON/COL          CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                COL                  COL
IS/CON/COL
Academic institutions            CON                   CON             CON
Local government                 CON/COL              CON/COL         CON/COL
Other donors                    IS/CON/COL            IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
Non-government organizations consulted or who have participated in project design include:
WWF-Georgia, Georgian Orthodox Church, Georgia Greens, Georgia Society for Protection of
Wildlife, Georgian Youth Eco Movement, Georgia Protected Areas Program, Aieti- Association
for the Protection of the Black Sea, Poseidon Marine Association, Noah's Arc for the Recovery of
Endangered Species (NACRES), Grid-Tbilisi (G-Info.), Young Lawyers Association, Center for
Environmental Research. Private sector entities consulted include the Georgia Pipeline Company
and rep.esentatives of Azerbaijan International Oil Consortium (AIOC).
b. Other key stakeholders:
Private sector developers and port management authorities
Participatory planning and management are the hallmarks of effective coastal management and
are essential to the sustainability of any protected areas initiative. As described above under
"Social" concerns, preparation of the project has involved the participation of local stakeholders
concemed with the establishment of the KNP/KNR and with local authorities concerned with
responsibility for administering coastal resources and sectoral activities. Because creating public
awareness and building a constituency of local and national level support is an important factor in
the success of this project, environmental education activities will be incorporated into a number
of the project components. A meeting with NGOs working on Black Sea environmental issues
was held during pre-appraisal as *--as a meeting with officials of the Eastern Orthodox Church to
discuss opportunities for collaboration on promoting Black Sea environmental education. A
science curriculum is now being developed for instruction of and use by clergy in all the Black
Sea riparian countries to integrate ecological principles into religious teachings and community
outreach. Project implementation will emphasize this participatory approach at the national and
local levels to raise awareness about the project and its objectives, gain support of various interest
groups and provide a forum for resolving conflicts between stakeholders.
CON = consultation, COL = collaboration, IS = information sharing
19



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government is committed up to the level of the President to the project, assuring strong
political will in support of this effort.  Project sustainability will also be enhanced through
institutional arrangements that build capacity and ownership of the project among implementing
agencies. In a twinning arrangement with the PIU, the ICZM Working Group would share
responsibility for project execution. Through such an arrangement, capacity would be created
within govemment to facilitate integrated planning and management of coastal resources so as to
maxiimize benefits to a broad range of coastal resource users. Key aspects of project management
would also be institutionalized within the WG to ensure sustainability of this function beyond the
life of the PIU. Because these staff would be seconded from existing positions in the ministries,
or in the case of KNP/KNR staff, from other field locations in the Department of Protected Areas,
substantial recruitment of new personnel for project implementation would not be necessary.
Prospects for long-termn viability of the Protected Areas would be enhanced through revenue
generating activities related to ecotourism, aquaculture, and other microenterprises that could be
supported in the multiple use zone of the Park.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Continuing GoG commitment (political and    M         Continuing dialogue between Bank
financial) to project                                 and GoG on project benefits
Conitinuing political stability during project    S   International community is
implementation period                                 providing substantial economic aid
and supporting policy reform and
good governance
20



Risk                    Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Potential delay in adoption of KNP/KNR   M             Active lobbying of Parliament by
legislation                                            NGOs and line ministries for
passage of law; which is a
condition of disbursement for this
component (40% of total project)
Incentives are inadequate to encourage   S-H           Special status of KNP management
compliance with coastal zone regulations and           entity should provide flexibility in
environmental policies by different interest           salaries and performance incentives
groups                                                 for staff; civil service refornn is
being launched with assistance
from the Bank and IMF;
enforcement will be strengthened
and market based instruments
introduced
Ability to recruit and retain qualified staff  S-H     A PIU and an ICZM WG being
during and after project                               established within MoE to train
civil servant staff in state of the art
techniques for ICZM and create in-
house capacity to manage; create a
sense of high professionalism and
loyalty to the MoE
Cooperation between public sector and private  M       Legal analysis of distribution of
oil interests in developing capacity to respond        risk and liability for oil spills across
to oil spills                                          public and private sector being
prepared; incentives to cooperate
will be identified
Overall Risk Rating                      M             Adaptive management approach
I may counteract risk.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(a)    The concept of introducing and retaining user charges for the Kolkheti National
Park/Kobuleti Nature Reserve would require a new operating model and culture. Cost-
recovery would not be an objective during the life of the project but would be introduced
in time after achievement of public awareness programs, establishment of real services
and marketing to foreign tourists. It will be necessary to introduce a two-tiered system of
user fees to realize sufficient returns.
(b)    Achieving interministerial cooperation with the MoE taking a lead role in ICZM and
project implementation may be difficult at the outset. Obtaining buy-in from key
ministries and presidential support at the outset will be important. This will be supported
through the State Interagency Consultative Commission and letters of agreement between
the MoE and other key ministries involved in coastal activities.
21



(c)    Managing the Black Sea Coast of Georgia for multiple use-including conservation and
tourism may be difficult in the face of increasing pressure for concessions to private
investors with regard to the transport and production of oil. The Oil Institution Building
Project and the analysis of conditions in Georgia v  a vis international standards and best
practice with regard to oil spill liability and compensation may encourage adoption of
necessary safeguards to manage risk of oil spills.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Agreements Reached at Negotiations
(a)    All procurement activities under the project would follow the procedures as described in
Annex 6, Section 1 and pam. 4 Section C.
(b)    Disbursement arrangements will follow the procedures described in Annex 6, Section H
(c)    Establishment of a special account will follow the procedure described inAnnex 6, Section
II and Section C4, pam. 8.
(d)    The functions of the PIU/ICZM WG and its managemert of the project activities will be as
described in Annex 6 and Section C4, para. 3.
(e)    All project accounts will be audited as described in Annex 6, Section m  and Section C4,
para. 10.
(f)    Reporting and evaluation of project activities will be as de,cribed Annex 6, Section IV and
Section C4, para. 11.
(g)   Confirmation of govemment committments to the project including on-going financial
support of the PIU/ICZM WG and its government staff, as described Annex 6 and
Section C4, paras. 3 and 4.
2. Eiffectiveness Conditions:
(a)  Establishment of a financial management system to the satisfaction of the Bank, as
described in Section C4, para. 7.
3. Diisbursement Conditions:
(a) Passage of the Law establishing the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve
would be a condition of disbursement for Component 2, as described in Section Cl, pam. 7.
(b) Environmental review prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank would also be a condition of
disbursement for Component 2, as described in Section E6, para. 2.
H. Fteadiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. (Engineering works would not begin until second year of
project).
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
22



(a) Establishment of a financial management system to the satisfaction of the Bank (condition of
project effectiveness).
(b) Passage of the Law establishing the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve as a
condition of disbursement for Component 2.
(c) Environmental review prepared to the satisfaction of the Bank as a condition of disbursement
for Component 2.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
none recommended
Program Team Leader: Karin J. Shepardson
Acting Sector Director       abody 
Acting;COunt   irecto   yI Mu</le /      /
23



Annex I
Project Design Summary
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoringand    - riiapf          tons
Evaluation   ';         
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
Protect the integrity of     * Capacity to address       * ESW work            * Productive coastal
threatened natural systems that  Environmental degradation  (periodic)          systems contribute to
contribute to sustainable      of the Black Sea coast    * National reports     local and national
economic development in        established.              * Marine environment    economies and the
Georgia                      * Data on state of coastal and    information nodes;  welfare of the population
marine environment         Web sites           * The costs of inaction
available to decision makers.                    outweigh investments in
enviromnental planning
and management
Project Development                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To develop, test, and replicate    * Coordination mechanism for  * Presidential decrees   * Effective coastal zone
methods to effectively integrate    intersectoral planning and  legislation and  management contributes
environmental concerns into    management of coastal       regulation           to the achievement of
coastal development planning at   resources established at  * Records of        sustainable economic
national and local levels      national and local levels.  consultative and     development at the
Global Objective:            * Provision made for          advisory group       national and local level
To assist Georgia in meeting its   introducing and retaining  meetings         * Continuing government
international commitments to   user fees for protected areas.  * Progress and   commitment
protect the Black Sea under the   * User based financing   supervision reports   * Continuing political
Bucharest Convention and the   mechanism(s) for control of  * IMO reports, official   stability
Strategic Action Plan for      oil pollution piloted.      reports and         * NEAP adopted and
Rehabilitation and Protection of  * Specialists trained in coastal   supervision reports    implemented
the Black Sea                  resource planning and     * Park legislation;
management tools (EA,       collected fees
land-use planning/zoning;    * Annual Regional &
coastal monitoring; GIS) and   National Reports
environmental education.
* Information node for Black   * Materials available;
Sea regional coastal       focus group
environmental monitoring   interviews
network established in    * PIU progress reports
Georgia.                  * Focus group reports,
* Black Sea environmental    interviews with local
education materials         government
developed for formal and
informal sectors (curricular,
mass media, training
materials).
* National park staff trained.
* Local stakeholder
participation facilitated in
coastal development
management decisions.
24



Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and        Critial Assumptions
Evaloation
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
la. Institutional arrangements  * The first elements of a  * PIU reports       * Incentives are adequate
for ICZM established at national   cohesive institutional and  * Supervision reports,   to encourage compliance
and local levels               legislative framework in    mid-term report and    with coastal zone
lb. ICZM legislation drafted for    place; consultative    ICR                  regulations and policies
regulation of development      commissions in place and   * Evaluation mission   by different interest
activities in the coastal zone  functioning effectively    reports (mid-term &   groups
final)              * NEAP adopted and
implemented
2. National Park demarcated,  * Poaching and harvesting   * Park management    * KNP/KNR legislation
basic infrastructure provided,  rates reduced compared to  reports               adopted
and environmental degradation  baseline conditions; no new   * Regular site visits  * NEAP adopted and
trends stabilized within the Park    encroachment within Park    a Social assessment  implemented
boundaries
3. Coastal Zone Monitoring and   * High demand for        * Regular review of    . Data will be made
Information System activated   information from user       status of data bases  available for access by
and functioning for protection of   groups; effective warning  and information   public and private user
public health and natural      systems implemented;        systems               groups
systems                        hardware and software      * Periodic review of    * User groups will have an
effectively used in        their use through     interest in accessing and
collaborating institutions  contacts with a      using data for planning
diversity of user    and management
groups
4, Future investment program to   * Favorable response and  * Draft and final  * Cost effective
control coastal erosion        follow-up by GoG and        feasibility study    interventions can be
prioritized and associated risks  donors                  * Implementation plan   identified
quantified                                                 adopted by GoG      * Government and local
communities prepared to
implement
recommendations
5. Tiered response strategy and    * Contingency plan and  * Draft and final   * Government prepared to
implementation plan developed    financing plan developed  strategy reports      give priority to
for oil spills                 and approved by            * Development of       environmental aspects of
government; private sector    agreements between    oil development
participation forthcoming   Govermment and      * Sister project
private sector       implemented for oil
institution building
* Private sector prepared to
cooperate on oil spill
prevention and control
Project Components/Sub-       Inputs: (budget for each                         (Components to Outputs)
components:                   component)
ICZM Institutional Capacity   . US$1.4 million            * Progress reports   * National and local
Building:                                                  (quarterly)           governments committed
* ICZM WG established                                   * Disbursement         to ICZM
* Draft legislation                                      reports (quarterly)    * Legislation developed in
* Coastal land use planning                             * Supervision reports  a tinely manner
.           ~~~~* Consultative commission
* Consultative commission                               * Minutes of           m  onsatregularissis
commission           meet on a regular basis
meetings            * Adequate and timely
counterpart fimding
25



-Narrative Summary        Key Periormance Indicators     Monitoring and       Critical Asuumptlni-.
-: Q ;   ;<;   }t    i -  . - . -           - ~~EvaluatiODn            .     'tm 
Kolkheti National Park and   * US$3.3 million            * Progress reports    * Kolkheti National Park
Kobuleti Nature Reserve:                                 * Disbursement          legislation adopted by
* Management plans prepared                              reports               Parliament
* Biodiversity monitoring                               * Supervision reports   * Cooperation between
* Training/public awareness                             * Regular site visits  national and local
* Habitat restoration                                   * Monitoring of        Coventt
chne agis          a Cooperation at the
* Research                                               changes agamst        community level
baseline data
* Management programs
can be implemented
under local conditions
* Ability to recruit and
retain qualified,
dedicated staff during
and after project
* Qualified individuals
available to receive
training
Coastal Monitoring and       * US$1.9 million             * Progress reports   * Access will be provided
Information:                                              * Disbursement         to information and data
* Training                                               reports             * Equipment will be
* Coastal monitoring program                            * Supervision reports    properly maintained and
* GIS nodes and network                                 * Review training      effectively utilized
prograrns and course  * High quality team of
evaluations          international and local
* Review of users'     experts is contracted for
views on systems
and data
Evaluation of Coastal Erosion  * USS0.5 million           * Progress reports   * Report identifies cost-
and Cost Effective Interventions                          * Disbursement         effective interventions to
in municipal water resource use                            reports               control erosion
* Supervision reports   * Sustained national and
* Review of draft and    local government interest
fnal feasibility study   in implementation of
* Implementation plan    actions
adopted by GoG      * Non-investment
measures for erosion
control through land and
water use management
are also adopted
26



r.x S <    X     E~~~~~i e Pl rfkrinceodktr  .--M.        t
Oil Pollution Contingency     * USS0.5 million            * Progress reports   * Cooperation between
Planning & Emergency                                      a Disbursement         public and private sector
Response                                                   reports              interests in oil spill
* Supervision reports    contingency planning
* Draft and final    * Interest exists with
strategy reports     Government and private
* Development of       sector for follow-on
agreements between    actions which involve
Government and       management and
private sector       investment measures
* Ability to recruit and
retain qualified,
dedicated staff for
planning and
implementation phase
activities
27



Annex 2
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Introduction
1.    Georgia's coastline extends approximately 310 km along the western reaches of
the Black Sea. The Georgian coastal zone extends from the plains between the Mountain
ranges of the Greater and Lesser Caucasus to the northeast and south east and the
wetlands of Kolkheti and Kobuleti to the West. The topography is characterized by
wetlands and marshes along much of the coast and steep cliffs and mountains in the north
and south. Major coastal habitats include near-shore marine fishery areas, coastal barrier
dunes, extensive peat bogs, coastal deltas and braided rivers, which are characterized by
high levels of biological diversity and organic productivity. Much of the coastal zone is
densely populated: major coastal cities are Batumi (140,000), Poti (50,000), and Sukhumi
(120,000) in Abkhazia. However, due to the current political instability in Abkhazia, the
northern half of Georgia's coastal zone which falls within the borders of this autonomous
republic is currently defacto outside the administration of the GoG.
2.    Upstream  human activities have put increasing pressure on coastal zone
ecosystems along the Black Sea, while further downstream over-fishing and off-shore
dumping have devastated marine resources. In general, fragmented and weak
management of natural resources at the regional, national and international levels has
resulted in uncontrolled pollution, unsustainable exploitation and loss of productive
habitats in the coastal zone. This undermining of the productive resource base of the
Black Sea has the potential to severely compromise Georgia's future economic
development prospects and calls for strategic planning and integrated.management of the
multiple resources and landscapes along Georgia's Black Sea coast.
3.    Georgia is not alone in facing the problems of a deteriorating Black Sea
environment. The six riparians bordering the Black Sea recognized their common
challenge and the need to jointly address the spiraling degradation of what was once a
flourishing ecosystem.
4.   In the fall of 1996, a Strategic Action Plan for the Rehabilitation and Protection of
the Black Sea (BS-SAP), prepared by all six littoral states, was signed and the process of
implementing this regional strategy begun. The establishment of national programs for
integrated coastal management underlies the strategy and is a unifying theme in the
ability of riparians to optimize benefit flows from the Black Sea and to meet the regional
objective of protecting and rehabilitating this shared marine ecosystem.
5.    The Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project is designed as a first step
toward this long-term goal. Consistent with the need to build a strong institutional base as
a foundation for ICZM, the emphasis of this initial project is on capacity building and
creating an enabling environment for the introduction of improved management
28



techniques and investments in the coastal zone. The project scope, therefore, includes the
following components:
Project Component 1: ICZM Institutional Capacity Building (US$1.5 million)
6.    This component aims to establish an ICZM institutional and legal framework
through: (i) a State Consultative Commission for ICZM, (ii) the creation of an operational
ICZM Unit, the Working Group for the Advancement of ICZM; (iii) three Local ICZM
Consultative Commissions; and (iv) preparation and completion of Park Management
Plans. In addition to these institutional arrangements to facilitate inter-sectoral planning
and the participation of multiple stakeholder groups in coastal resource decision making,
the project will also support the drafting of legislation and codes of practice for the
coastal zone.
7.    The State Consultative Commission for ICZM (SCC) will serve as the principal
forurn for interpreting and coordinating existing policies among the various
sectors/stakeholders involved in coastal and marine resource use along Georgia's Black
Sea Coast. It will also be instrumental in guiding the drafting of legislation for the
Coastal Zone The SCC would be coordinated by the Ministry of Environment and
Ministry of Urbanization and Construction as the lead agencies for ICZM, and would
consist of representatives of relevant government sectoral and planning agencies, local
authiorities, academia, private sector, and the public. The SCC was fornally established
by a Presidential Decree (# 608) on October 25, 1998.
8.    The Working Group for the Advancement of ICZM  (ICZM  WG) will be
established as an independent, multi-disciplinary entity with the full technical support of
relevant government agencies (Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Urbanization and
Construction, Department of Protected Areas, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of
Transport) with interests in the Coastal Zone. The ICZM WG will provide a working
space for staff seconded from these ministries, and for training on state of the art
equipment in the use of GIS and other ICZM tools and techniques for integrated planning
and management of the coastal zone. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with
exec:utive powers for overall project supervision and coordination, including contracting
and disbursement oversight in accordance with Government and Bank procedures, will be
housed in MoE, and work in close cooperation with the ICZM WG.
9.    With project funded technical assistance, the WG will undertake various activities
suchi as working with the SCC to draft ICZM legislation outlining the mandate and
responsibilities of a coastal authority and codes of conduct for development activities in
the coastal zone; facilitating technical assistance for the preparation of coastal land use
plans at key points along the Black Sea Coast; establishing a coastal environment
infonrmation system; preparing the first Report on the State of the Environment in the
Georgian Coastal Zone based on monitoring data and information analysis; launching a
training and public awareness program; and initiating and supervising the activities under
the other components of the project. The WG will liaise with the national and local ICZM
consultative commission and with concerned public and private institutions, including
NGOs. The WG will be provided with equipment, training, and hands on technical
assistance to promote its development into a Center of Excellence for ICZM in Georgia.
29



10.   The PIU/ICZM  WG will help establish a network of three Local ICZM
Consultative Commission (LCCs) in: Poti, Kolkheti, and Batumi. The purpose of the
LCCs is to encourage stakeholder participation in establishing ICZM priorities at the
municipal and local levels, where decisions by resource users most closely affect the state
of nearshore coastal ecosystems. In Kolkheti, the primary purpose of the LCC (KNP
Advisory Council) would be to serve as a community based advisory body to the
National Park and Nature Reserve, mandated by protected area legislation, to provide
input to park management plans and their implementation. The Poti and Batumi LCCs
would be more broadly focused and would involve multiple stakeholders from different
economic as well as social sectors, including the public sector, private and non-
governmental entities, and the clergy. The set-up and initial operation of these
commissions will be facilitated by PIU field coordinators in Poti and Batumi.
1l.   The existing management guidelines for KNP and KNR funded under a small
grant from GEF provide a foundation for preparing comprehensive management plans for
these protected areas under the project. The project will finalize and implement the
management plans. These plans will unify various measures to improve protection and
management of the biodiversity of the KNP and KNR, including restoration of degraded
habitats, control of illegal logging and hunting, and monitoring. The management plans
will integrate the park's biodiversity protection functions with regional development
needs, such as tourism and flood protection.
Project Component 2: Establishment of the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti
Nature Reserve (US$3.2 million)
Background
12.   Project component two focuses on the establishment and management of two
protected areas, the Kolkheti National Park and the Kobuleti Nature Reserve. The project
will also integrate conservation of these two wetland sites into the broader development
objectives of coastal zone management in Georgia
13.   The proposed Kolkheti National Park is an approximately 45,000 hectare area that
lies just to the north of the Rioni River near it's mouth, and approximately 10 kilometers
to the south of the Abkhazia border. The Kolkheti National Park would be established
around an area within the larger Kolkheti wetlands lowland complex that was designated
as a Ramsar (a wetland of international significance) site in 1996. The proposed Kobuleti
Nature Reserve (KNR) is a smaller, approximately 780 hectare, area located just inland
from the Black Sea coast near the city of Kobuleti, which also received global
designation as a Ramsar site. It is also part of the larger Kolkheti wetlands lowlands
complex. Both proposed protected areas support rare and relic communities such as peat
bogs, Alder (Alnus barbata), and other forest types from the Tertiary period. The two
protected areas consist of subtropical forests and a wetland complex and contain high
levels of endemism and floral diversity, as well as some of the most significant and
threatened ecosystems in Georgia. The region also provides critical habitat for numerous
species of migratory and wintering birds. These forest and wetland ecosystems are under
threat as a result of drainage of wetlands for agricultural and urban use, forest harvesting,
illegal hunting, peat and gravel mining, pollution, and invasion by non-native species. In
30



addition to conserving terrestrial communities, the Kolkheti National Park would also
protect intercoastal waters of the Black Sea and would be the first protected marine
environment in Georgia.
14.  In 1992, the World Wildlife Fund Conservation Program in Georgia (WWF-
Georgia) identified the Kolkheti wetlands as one of seven potential national park sites in
Georgia, and in 1994 drafted, with support from the BSEP/GEF ICZM program,
guidelines for the development of the park. Framework legislation supporting a proposed
system of Protected Areas in Georgia, including the proposed Kolkheti National Park,
was enacted in December 1996. This law requires separate legislation to finalize
individual park boundaries and administrative arrangements. A draft law for establishing
the Kolkheti National Park (KNP) passed the first of three Parliament hearings in
Dec-ember 1997. The second and third (final) readings will incorporate comments from
stakeholders including the local comrmunities and would occur consecutively. Final
passage of this legislation is a condition of disbursement on the overall Kolkheti/Kobuleti
projiect component. Summary information on the KNP and KNR are provided in the table
below.
31



Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve
Summary of Zones, Planned Use, and Area
Zones                     Permitted Use            Approximate     Area
Area      (hectares)
(hectares)   Kobuleti
Kolkheti     Nature
National Park    Reserve
Strict Nature   Monitoring, scientific research, and  18230         330
Zone            educational activities            (3640 marine)
Managed Nature  Nature-based tourism, educational    23850          420
Zone            activities and, where approved,      (10730
sustainable use (fishing, grazing,  marine)
forestry)
Recuperation    Activities consistent with restoration  2680
Zone            of degraded ecosystems
Visitor Zone and  Educational, research, and tourism   1.4
Environmental    activities
Education Zone
Administration    Administrative infrastructure for park  25        30
Zone            management (headquarters, visitors
center, etc.)
Historic-Cultural  Protection and restoration of       65
Zone            identified historic and cultural
monuments
44850         780
Totals    (14370
marine)
Support (Multiple                                           74700
Use) Zone
Objectives
15.   The objective of the protected areas component of the GICMP is to improve the
protection and management of threatened forest and wetland natural habitats within the
Kolkheti coastal region, and to integrate these protected areas into the broader
development objectives of the coastal management project.
Proposed Activities
Creation of Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve
16.  In accordance with the 1996 Law on Protected Areas Systems, new protected
areas are established by law and enacted by Parliament. The project will assist with the
establishment and operation of a local Advisory Council necessary for the park and
reserve's long-term viability. In particular, the project will finance:
32



(a)   Establishment of Park Infrastructure. The project will fund the
infrastructure for establishing and managing the new/expanded national
park and reserve as a necessary means to achieving the project's
objectives. The infrastructure may include establishment of the park and
reserve boundaries, limited fencing of sensitive habitats to mitigate
grazing impacts, and construction of an administration and visitors center,
guard stations and checkpoints and limited infrastructure needed to
accommodate and manage nature-based tourism such as hiking trails,
observation towers for birdwatching, and information centers for tourists.
(b)   Environmental Education. The  project will raise the  level of
environmental awareness and understanding among the local and regional
population. This will be accomplished through interpretive materials on
the ecology of the Kolkheti ecosystems and the connection to the cultural-
historical heritage of the region, clergy and teacher education seminars,
and ecological education camps for school children.
(c)   Habitat Restoration. The project will develop and implement biodiversity
restoration activities in the national park and support zone. These include:
restoration of species diversity in a managed coastal lowland forest,
development of a restoration plan for a degraded wetland, and support for
the recovery of a millet grain variety that represents part of the Georgian
plant genetic diversity.
(d)   Land Use Planning Studies. The potential for nature-based tourism in
Georgia is excellent due to its scenic landscapes, and rich cultural and
biological diversity. The project will provide technical assistance to
develop a nature-based tourism plan for KNP and KNR, including
mechanisms to avoid impacts to sensitive habitats. Other studies include
input to regional development planning and alternative land use practices
in forests and agricultural lands. The tourism plan will be developed in
partnership with the Georgian private sector, and with local communities
in the vicinities of the protected areas.
Institutional Development: Support to Park Administration and Management
11.   The project will assist with development of effective park administration and
management, through the following:
(a)   Protected Area Advisory Council A local advisory Council will be
established to advise the director of KNP and KNR and stakeholders in the
support zone on issues related to establishment and operation of these
protected areas. The advisory board will be comprised of local
representatives of the private sector, Department of Forestry, Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Environment, affected municipalities, and tourism
authorities. This advisory council will advise the Department of Protected
Areas on such issues as dispute resolution. It will also assist, in concert
33



with the mass media program, in disseminating information on project
issues to local communities.
(b)   Professional Development and Training. Professional development and
training activities will be provided to administrative, scientific, and
warden staff of the protected areas. This training will include principles
and practices of national park administration, revenue generation,
development of nature-based tourism and other appropriate economic
activities for generating income to support the park system. The park
administration training will result in production of an operation and
administration plan, including final job descriptions for all staff. Key park
staff and specialists responsible for management regimes for the protected
areas will receive training in natural resources management. Wardens will
be trained in patrolling and enforcement.
Biodiversity Monitoring and Applied Research
12. The project will implement monitoring and applied research undertaken by park
staff and specialist consultants to guide park management and evaluate the effectiveness
of restoration activities. The results of these monitoring efforts will be incorporated into a
coastal environmental information system to be supported under the Component Three of
the project
Project Component 3:  Establishment of a Coastal Environmental Quality
Monitoring and Information System (US$1.9 million)
Background
13.   An urgent need to monitor the quality of near-shore (beach) and off-shore waters,
rivers and estuaries, as well as ports and sources of pollution, was identified in a regional
study commissioned by the BSEP/EU TACIS in 1994. Untreated sewage, municipal
waste, pollution from dilapidated oil facilities, ship waste, industrial pollution and
agricultural runoff represent a known but insufficiently measured threat to both public
health and the coastal ecosystem, and negatively impact the potential for tourism
development.
14.   Georgia's existing system of environmental monitoring has deteriorated during
the years of economic hardship and requires improvement to meet the needs of public
health protection and coastal zone management. In addition to meeting national needs,
Georgia's environmental monitoring should assist the GoG to meet its international
commitments, especially to the regional BSEP, and contribute to improved management
of the Black Sea.
Description
15.   The Coastal Environmental Quality Monitoring and Information System
(CEQMIS) will build on existing monitoring capacity and aims to strengthen it to provide
essential environmental quality data for the benefit of decision makers, the general
34



population and environmeFtal institutions in the Black Sea region. The monitoring
system will complement and improve both national and regional monitoring capacity.
The component will address the need for an improved coastal monitoring and information
system by supporting preparation of a Monitoring and Information System Feasibility
and Design Study and laying the groundwork for its implementation through procurement
of sampling, measurement, and analytic equipment for selected monitoring laboratories;
improvement of monitoring standards and data protocols; provision of training and
technical assistance; and establishment of a basic structure for an effective information
systiem.
Subcomponents
16.   The CEQMIS component consists of the following subcomponents:
(a) Monitoring and Information System Feasibility and Design Study
(b)   Blue Flag Program for Beach Water Quality Monitoring
(c)   Off-shore water quality monitoring program
(d)   Pollution Monitoring
(e)  ICZM Information System.
InstitutionalArrangements
17.   The PIU/ICZM WG will function as the lead implementing institution with
overall responsibility for design and implementation of CEQMIS. For this purpose, the
PIU/ ICZM WG will receive support in the form of technical assistance, training and
information technology including GIS hardware and software. The component will be
implemented in close cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Health,
Ministry of Urbanization and Construction and their respective labs and agencies, as well
as the Marine Ecology and Fisheries Research Institute located in Batumi.
The maintenance of the information system and GIS aspect of the CEMQIS will be a
responsibility of the PIU/ICZM WG, linked to the MoE, the Ministry of Urbanization and
Construction responsible for land use planning, and the Research Institute of Fisheries
and Marine Ecology. GIS nodes and technical support will be established within the
MoE and MoUC, with each institution developing pilot applications for their respective
sectors. Based on the information gleaned from the monitoring program and GIS data, an
update of the State of the Coastal Zone Environment in Georgia will be prepared and
disseiminated electronically. This will serve as a concrete application of the MIS & GIS
tool aind an important resource for decision makers at the local and national levels.
Project Component 4: Evaluation of Coastal Erosion (US$0.5 million)
18.   Coastal erosion is a serious problem along many parts of the Georgian coast.
Much of this erosion has been accelerated by human intervention, including river
35



diversion, lake impoundment, sand mining and coastal engineering works. To assess the
factors contributing to coastal erosion, particularly in the risk-exposed areas of Poti
(Rioni River-Mouth) and Batumi (Chorokhi River-Mouth), the Government of the
Netherlands will finance a comprehensive analysis of municipal water use (including
watershed hydrology, sediment load, water supply and wastewater flows, coastal
dynamics) and associated infrastructure in Poti and Batumi. Based on these studies a plan
for integrated municipal water management would be developed for each locality. These
studies would include analysis of cost effectiveness of existing interventions to control
erosion, and feasibility studies of proposed options to sustainably address the most
serious aspects of coastal erosion. Investment requirements would be identified for
possible future interventions in municipal water management and erosion abatement.
Project Component 5: Development of a National Oil Spill Contingency Plan and
Marine
Pollution Control Plan (US$0.5 million)
19.   Grant support has also been obtained from the Government of the Netherlands to
develop a national oil spill contingency plan for Georgia. While the plan will focus on
building capacity to respond to oil spill emergencies both on and off-shore along the
Georgian coast, it will also examine strategies for prevention and abatement of
operational spills. This has the potential to be a growing source of poilution in Batumi
and Poti, in view of the increased tanker traffic envisioned along the coast and the lack of
adequate facilities at either port to deal with these spills. The PIU/ICZM WG will consult
with the International Maritime Organization (IMO), International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), and the International Petroleum
Tanker Owners Fund, Limited in preparing this component to ensure that national
response plans are consistent with IMO standards and existing programs to operationalize
such plans. This component would proceed in tandem with private sector initiatives to
provide emergency response in the event of an accidental spill in the Supsa Terminal
area.
20. The national plan developed under this component will explore the possibility of
financing emergency response to oil spills through existing conventions which identify
the liability of oil tanker owners/operators, compensation funds which provide insurance
to tanker owners and member countries in the event of a spill, and existing legal
arrangements with oil interests in the Supsa Terminal area that are responsible for
responding in the event of a spill related to their operations. At the very least, the national
plan financed under the project will take advantage of opportunities for joint training,
monitoring, sharing of equipment and information with the GPC (Georgia Pipeline
Company) oil spill contingency operations for the Supsa Terminal. Technical assistance
under this component will include experts in Marine Administration and Marine
Inspection in the Ports of Batumi and Poti, and the marine advisor to the GPC,
responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of oil spill emergency
response plans for the Supsa Terminal.
36



Annex 3
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ thousand)
Project Component                      Local        Foreign      Total         %
--------------------US$ '000   - --     Total Base
Cost
1. Establishment of National ICZM           0.640      0.558        1.198          18
Center
2. Creation of National Parks               2.169      0.517        2.686          40
3.. Coastal Infornation and                 0.508       1.196       1.704          26
Monitoring System                 _
4. Evaluation of Coastal Erosion (Poti,         -      0.500        0.500           8
Batumi)
5. Oil Pollution Prevention and                 -      0.500        0.500           8
Management                        _             _
Baseline Project Cost                3.317      3.271        6.588         100
Physical Contingencies                      0.232      0.159        0.391           6
Price Contingencies                         0.548      0.120        0.667          10
Total Project Cost                 4.097       3.549        7.647         116
37



Annex 4
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
COSTS                                         BENEFITS
INVESTMENT COSTS                              OIL SPILL EMERGENCY RESPONSE BENEFITS
National capacity to prevent and respond to spills
Total Project Costs $7.6 million              *  reduced cleanup costs
* reduced environmental damages
COST OF FORGONE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY  ECOLOGICAL VALUES
* Waterfowl/Bird Habitat and Migration Route
*  Loss of Hunting, fishing, firewood, and reed  *  Flood Protection Value
collection, and  peat and  gravel mining  *  Pollution Filtration Benefits
activities,                               *  Protection of rare and highly endemic species
* Fisheries habitat
PUBLIC HEALTH BENEFITS
* Fewer public health problems related to beach use due
to better public information
* Greater awareness of magnitude of problems, so that
investments in pollution prevention can be prioritized
INSTITUTIONAL BENEFITS
* Prevention of environmental degradation caused by
private interests through a forum where public welfare
is considered using consensus building and public
participation tools.
* Benefits gained by participation in an international
forum for Black Sea cleanup whereby positive action
by any government on the Black Sea contributes to
the net overall welfare of other littoral countries.
TOURISM BENEFITS
National park amenities such as visitor center, pathways,
interpretive signs, camping and boating facilities, and
research facilities to attract visitors.
* Eco-Tourism Benefit due to park
* Research fees generated from international users
* User fees for park facilities
Improvements in the Black Sea Environment are expected
to increase beach related tourism
* Need visible improvements such as reduced solid
waste debris and less oil in water and beaches
NON-USE VALUES
* Existence Value to society- knowledge that one of
Georgia's important natural resources has been
preserved
* Bequest value to society- knowledge that society
today has done something to help preserve the
environment for future generations
38



Annex 5
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in US million - base year 1999)
1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs       1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.1
Recurrent Costs        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Total               1.2    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.2
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                    6      15     17      12       5       2
Co-financiers          1      4       5       3
(Dutch TF)
Co-financiers          0.4    2       4       4       3       3.6
(GEF)
Government             1.6    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1       2
Total               9      23.1   28.1   21.1   10.1    8.6
Main assumptions:
The project will become effective in January 1999.
39



Annex 6
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
I. PROCUREMENT
Procurement Responsibility
1.  Implementation of the project will require procurement of goods, works, and the
selection and employment of consulting firms and individuals to carry out consulting and
other technical assistance services.  The PIU/ICZM  WG will be responsible for
procurement. The PIU/ICZM WG will hire a full time procurement officer whose rain
responsibility will be to: (a) prepare and carry out any procurement; (b) submit to the Bank
all procurement documents which require Bank's prior review; (c) prepare and submit to
the Bank at the beginning of each calendar year a detailed procurement schedule.
Appointment of the procurement officer will be done in consultation with the Bank. At
project launch (estimated to be January 1999), the Bank will deliver a procurement
workshop to present and explain procurement guidelines and commence preparing specific
bidding documents.
Procureir ent Methods
2.   The procurement of goods and works under the project will be conducted in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published in January 1995, and revised in January and August, 1996, and
September 1997. The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in
accordance with national regulations or the co-financing institutions' procurement
regulations. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development
Business of the United Nations in December, 1998. The selection of consultants will be
done in accordance with the "Guidelines - Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers", dated January 1997, revised September 1997. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods, Small Works, and Letters of Invitation as well as Standard Form
of Consultants' Contracts will be used. The project procurement arrangements are shown
in Tables Al and A2 and briefly summarized below. Detailed Procurement Plans are
presented in Tables B and C.
Gooa's
3.  For goods procurement packages estimated to cost US$200,000 or more each, the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure will be used: and for contracts under
US$200,000 each, International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of quotations
obtained form at least three suppliers in two different countries will be applied. For
locally available off-the-shelf goods, estimated to cost up to US$50,000 per contract,
National Shopping, based on comparison of quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers will be used. For the purchase of goods to be awarded through ICB, the
beneficiary may grant a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the amount of applicable
40



customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufacturers of goods in
accordance with the Guidelines referred to above.
4.   The project includes one ICB package for goods (aggregate amount US$0.780
million); nine IS packages (estimated to cost US$1.054 million); and one NS package
(US$0.012 million).
5.   Civil Works. Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$0.2 million equivalent or
more will be procured through ICB; under US$0.2 million, NCB will be used. The
procedure applicable for procurement of small works will be used for contracts up to
US$100,000 each. The project includes eight NCB contracts (US$1.288 million) and one
small works contract (US$0.085 million).
6.   Consultants' Services.  Consultants' services estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 each will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
procedure. Such contracts will be advertised in the Development Business and a national
newspaper for expressions of interest, from which a shortlist will be drawn. There is one
consultant contracts (in aggregate amount less than US$ 200,000, national short-listed)
for assignments of a standard or routine nature, which may be selected through the Least
Cost Selection method. Individual experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of
the World Bank Consultant Guidelines.
7.   The project includes four QCBS assignments at a total estimated cost of US$1.157
million. Advertisements inviting expressions of interest for these assignments will be
published in the Development Business and in a national newspaper.
8.   Consultants' services for the auditing assignment (estimated at US$0.191million)
will be procured through the least cost selection method. Consultant services for the
public awareness and media outreach assignment will be procured through the fixed-
budget method (US$0.144 million). The project also includes (US$0.487 million) for the
procurement of the services of individuals. These include the experts needed for short-
term technical assignments and to staff the PIU during the life of the project. Ten
contracts (in the aggregate amount of US$0.609 million) will be selected through the
Consultants' Qualification Method of selection. Since there are only some NGO working
in the field of assignment, the project will include two contracts awarded on a single
source basis to these NGOs (in aggregate arnount US$ 0.136 million)
9.   The funds allocated to meet various incremental operating costs (US$0.489
million), will be spent in accordance with an annual budget subject to the Bank's prior
approval and following procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Bank Review of Procurement
10. Procurement documents for all goods and works to be procured under ICB
(>US$200K) (invitation to bid, draft bidding documents, evaluation report) will be
subject to the Bank's prior review. Procurement documents for the first NCB for works
(<US$ 200K), IS for goods (<US$ 200K), NS (<US$ 50K), and small works contracts
(<US$ 100K) (draft invitation to quote and evaluation report before contract is signed)
41



will also be subject to the prior review of the Bank. A full prior review will be requested
for Minor Works. With respect to each consultants' contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other
thaLn the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each consultant contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a) and 5
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each contract for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or
less, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
42



Table Al
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
[in US$ million equivalent]
Expenditure Category           PROCUREMENT METHOD                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB      Other    NBF
A. Civil Works                    1.3       0.0      0.0          1.3
(1.2)    (0.07)(a)   (0.0)     (1.3)
B. Goods              0.8                 1.1                   1.9
(0.6)             (o.9)(b)               (1.5)
C. Consultant Services                          2.7       1.0         3.7
(2.4)(e)    (0.0)     (2.4)
D. Incremental                               0.5      0.2         0.7
Operating Costs                            (0-5)(d)    (0.0)      (0.5)
TOTAL                0.8      1.3       4.3       1.2         7.6
(0.6)    (1.2)     (3.9)     (0.0)       (5.7)
NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofmancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any
other miscellaneous items).
Items in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Includes one minor works contract (US$0.07 million).
b/ Nine IS contracts and one NS contract ( for a total of USS0.9 million).
c/ Four QCBS contracts ; ten consultant qualifications contracts one LC contract; one
fixed-budget contract; and three individual contracts (for a total of USS 2A million).
d/ Incremental Operating Costs of US$0.5 million to be incurred based on an annual
budget.
43



Annex 6, Table A2: Consultant Selection Armngements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                     Total Cost
Consultant                                                         (including
Services                                                         contingencies)
Expenditure
Category
QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ         Other    NBF
A. Firms   1.157    0      0.144   0.191   0.609   0.136   0      2.237
B.                 0      0       0       0       0.487    0      0.487
Individuals
Total 1.157    0      0.144   0.191   0.609   0.623    0      2.724
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines; includes here: Sole Source and Individual), Commercial
Practices, etc.
NBF = Not Bank-financed.
44



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
'4-i,;<_ __ 5 '  "'' -' ''''milinqulva(Ut)con l: Procur.ient Review
Goods and Civil     ICB           NCB               IS               NS           Minor Works      Other methods   Percentage of loan amount
Works                                                                                                          subject to prior review
Procurement     G > 0.200      W<0.200       <0.200            <0.050           <0.100           n.a.
thresholds:     (US$0.780)    (US$1.288)    (US$ 1.054)         (US$0.012)      (US$0.085)
individual and
aggregate
Prior Review    First          First         First              First           First                              US$1.207 million
(US$0.780)    (US$0.179)    (US$0.154)         (USS0.012)      (US$0.085)                         or 18%
Consultants     QCBS           LCS           SFB                Qualifications    Individual      Sole Source
Procurement     (US$1.301)    (US$0.191)    (US$0.144)          (US$0.609)      (US$0.487)        (US$ 0.136)
method
thresholds
Prior Review    All           All            All               All              Only TORs        All               US$2.237 million
(US$1.301)    (USS0.191)    (US$0.144)         (USS0.609)                        (USS 0.136)       or 35%
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 3.464 inillion
Expost Review    Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
All other       All the remaining procurement packages will be subject to ex-post review. Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist as needed To
procurement     assist the TM with ex-post reviews.
packages
- . Section,2- Capacity of the mlemp ontintAgqncyin Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
The PIU will be responsible for implementing the project, including procurement. The PIU staff will include a dedicated procurement officer.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement    I Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Strategy Paper status: N/A                                 | Yes  No X



, ___  2                   . __  -                Section 3: To           and    e         tn Poctement               7.                               7
Estimated date of    | Estimated date of publication I Indicate if there is procurenent I Domestic Preference for Good    Dom eiic Prfererce for Work-s if appliCable
Project Launch        of Gcneral Procurement Notice  subject to mandatory SPN in                            Yes    No X
Workshop              Septemberl998               Development Business         Yes X No
Marchl999                                         No X
Retroactive financing
Yes   No  X    Explain:Yc                                                                  NoXEpan                        
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and supervision missions. Each supervision
mission will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be respuu;isible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the
supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Co-financing: Procurement for Dutch co-financing will be administered by the Dutch ministry of Economic Affairs. The PIU will act as a coordinating body for all co-financed contracts.
Procurement for GEF co-financing activities will be administered by the PIU following bank procedures.
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Naushad Khan, Procurement Specialist, Ext 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A project officer in the Resident Mission would be responsible for helping to supervise project implementation and
would provide procurement support, in which she he will have received trainir.g.



Table C
Georgia lntergrated Coastal Management Project
Procurement Plan
ICZM Legal Framework, Development of
Coastal Land Use Master Plan,      CF           1          IDA        344         QCBS         Aug-99  Sep-99  Jan-00   Jan-03
2 Training                            Cl           1          IDA        92           Ind           NA     Nov-98 Jan-99   Jun-01
Design of Monitoring and Info system,
3 small field studies, GIS training   CF           1          IDA       352          QCBS         Dec-98   Jan-99  Apr-99   Dec-01
4 PIU Consultant services (local)     Cl           8          IDA        361           Ind          NA     Nov-98 Jan-99   Jul-04
5 Project Advisory Services           CF          4           IDA       256           CQ          Dec-98  Jan-99  Apr-99   Jul-04
6 FinancialAudit                      CF           I       IDAIGEF       191           LC         Mar-00  Mar-00  Jul-00   Jul-04
7 Public awareness/media outreach     CF           1       IDA/GEF       144          FB/N        Feb-99   Mar-99  Jul-99   Dec-01
8 Management Plan/Layout of Park      CF           1         GEF         90           CQ            NA     Jan-99  Apr-99   Oct-00
_ Community SupportInput to Regional
9 Planning                            CF           2          IDA        99           CQ            NA     Jan-00  Apr-00   Jan-02
10 Ecosystem Studes/Research & Monitoring   CF     I          GEF        225         QCBS         Dec-99  Jan-00  Apr-00   Mar-04
Clergy. Local Population & Educators
11 Training                           CF           I          GEF         87        SS/NGO'         NA        NA    Apr-99   Jun-04
121Study Altemahe use of Fo_* st/Agrc Land   CF    2          IDA         52           CQ           NA      Oct-99  Jan-00   Jun-01



Table C
Georgia Intergrated Coastal Management Project
_______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______   Procu 'remn t  Plar             lll 
E131esign and Feasibility of Tourism/SBD  CF       1          IDA        49         SS/NGO2        NA        NA    Jul-99    junI00
Developmnentprinting of Guidebooks and
14 posters                            CF          1          IDA        112           CQ           NA    Dec-99 Jan-00  Dec-02
_Intemational, Technical Wardien and staff
15 training                           CF          I          IDA        236         QCBS         May-99  Jun-99  Oct-99  Dec-01
16 Expert review of park management   CI       multiple      IDA         34          Ind           NA     Nov-00 Jan-01  Dec-01
_ Subtotal Consultant Services                                           2,724
PIU/Monitoring and Infofnation System                         _
1 Laboratory equipment               G           1          IDA        780          ICB        May-99  Jun-99  Oct-99  Dec-00
2 Standard Computer Equip/           G           1          IDA        151           Is         Feb-99  Feb-99 Apr-99  Dec-00
3 GIS H&S                            G           1          IDA        192           IS         Nov-98  Dec-98 Apr-00  Jun-01
4 Remote Sensing Imagery              G          1          IDA         30          IS3         Feb-00   Feb-00  Apr-00  Sep-00
5 Vehices                            G           1          IDA        163           IS        May-99  May-99  Jul-99   Mar-00
Office Equipment (phones, Faxes Copiers,
6 fumiture, projectors,TVNCR)         G          1           IDA        81           IS         Feb-99  Feb-99  Apr-99  Dec-99
Use of Research Vessel for Off-shore
7 sampling                           TS          1          IDA        167           IS         Aug-99  Aug-99 Oct-99  Dec-02
I KolkheWtKobuleti Reservses
8 Motor o                            G           1          IDA         38           iS6        Aug-99  Aug-99 Oct-99  Jun-00
9 Generator, garage equipment        G           1          !DA         87           IS         Nov-99  Nov-99 Jan-00   Jun-01



Table C
Georgia lntergrated Coastal Management Project
_______________________                                           j ~Procu rement Plan
_ Outdoor supply, sporting equipment,
10 Ecocamp supply                       G            1           IDA        145            IS         Nov-99  Nov-99 Jan-00   Jun-01
11 Uniform of Wardens                   G            1           IDA         1 2          NS          Aug-99  Aug-99  Oct-99   Jun-00
Subtotal Goods                                                             1,846
KolkhetUKobuleti Reserves
I Border marking/ Guard Stations       W            1          IDA         179          NCB          Jan-99   Feb-99  Apr-99   Jun-99
Town center info booths, boat launches
2 Campsites, Towers, Walkways          W            2           IDA        289           NCB         Jul-99   Aug-99  Oct-99  Dec-01
3 Administration and Visitor centers/garage  W      4          GEF         666          NCB          Oct-99   Nov-99 Jan-00  Dec-01
4 Tourist Shelters/Ecocamps            W            1          GEF          85           MW            NA      Feb-00  Apr-00  Dec-01
5 Restoration of Kolkheti Forests      W            1        GEF/IDA       154           NCB         Oct-00   Nov-00 Jan-01   Dec-02
Subtotal Works                    I      _I _                              1,373 _                 _         _
, Local Organkz.of Workshops (continuous) _                 IIDA               122                 INA         NA      INA      NA
2 Annual Workshop Training for KNP/KbNR            x6        GEF               135                  NA         NA      NA       NA
PIU office Incremental costs (heating    7  |             |
3 fuel,petrol,paper,pnnter cartridge)  _      _    _|IDA                        75                 |NA         NA      NA      jNA
4 MIS Equipment O&M                  _        _             JIDA               1241                INA        INA      'NA      NA



Table C
Georgia lntergrated Coastal Management Project
Procurement Plan
5 Camp and lnfrastr. O&M                                       GEF/IDA             33
6 Gov. of Georgia Direct Contribution                          NBF                189
,Subtotal Recurrent and Operating Costs (excluding GoG Direct Contr.)           4891
_ Total Project Cost                  |            |           |                6,621                  _                   _           __
Notes:
1. Specialized Env. Ed. Regional training program developed for dergy, educators and students of Black Sea riparian states.
2. The NGO CARE has been identified during appraisal as having the best capacity to carry-out the assignment
due to their implementation experience with microfinance and tourism development in similar projects in Georgia.
3. Only 3-5 sources worldwide are known at time of appraisal.
4. Consultant Services and Goods packages total costs are inclusive of price contingencies and taxes,which are paid for by the Government of Georgia.
5. Works packages total costs are inclusive of a 20% Govemment contribution, which will appear separately on project financing tables in the project document.
6. The appraisal mission verified the lack of a sufficiently developed national motor boat construction industry.
Key to acronyms used:
CF: Consultant-Firm                             LC: Least Cost
Cl: Consultant-Individual                       N: National
CQ: Consultant Qualifications                   NBF: Non Bank financed
FB: Fixed Budget Selection                      NCB: National Competitive Bidding
G: Goods                                        NS: National Shopping
GEF: Global Environment Facility                MW: Minor Works
Ind: Individuals                                QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection
ICB: Intemational Competitive Bidding           SS: Sole Source
IDA: Intemational Development Association    TS: Technical Services
IS: Intemational Shopping                       W: Works



II. DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursement Arrangements
11. The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of six years. The anticipated
completion date is June 30, 2004, and the closing date, December 31, 2004.
Disbursements will follow normal Bank and cofinanciers' procedures and will be made
against eligible expenditures. Tables DI and D2 below show estimated disbursements
during the life of the project and Tables El and E2 show allocation of credit and grant
proceeds:
Table Dl: Estimated Disbursements IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Estimated Disbursements         99       00      01       02       03        04
(Bank FY/US$M)
Annual      0.350   0.750    1.760    0.880    0.440    0.220
Cumulative   0.350    1.100    2.860    3.740    4.180    4.400
Cumulative    8%     25%      65%      85%      95%      100%
Percentage         I       I        I        I        I
Table D2: Estimated Disbursements GEF Grant
(US$ million)
Estimated Disbursements         99       00      01        02      03        04
(Bank FYMUS$M)
Annual      0.150   0.045    0.260    0.390    0.390    0.065
Cumulative   0.150   0.195    0.455    0.845    1.235    1.300
Cumulative    10%     15%     35%      65%      95%      10.0%
Percentage  I_I            I        I        I__
12.  Allocation  of grant proceeds: Disbursements would be made against the
categories of expenditures indicated-in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed project are
expected to be disbursed over a period of six years.
Table El: AUocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
Categories                   IDA Credit            Financing
Civil Works                                    0.6                 80%local
100% foreign
Goods                                           1.5        100% of foreign expenditure
(ex-factory cost) 80% of
local expenses
Consultants Services                            1.9                 100%
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    0.4                  100%/e
TOTAL                                           4.4
51



Table E2: Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds
(US$ million)
Categories               GEF Grant           Financing
Civil Works                               0.7              80%local
100% foreign
Goods                                     0.0       100% of foreign expenditure
(ex-factory cost) 80% of
local expenses
Consultants Services                      0.5               100%
Incremental Recurrent Costs               0.1               100%
TOTAL                                     1.3
13.   Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special
Accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank --One Special Account for the IDA Credit,
and another for the GEF Grant. The selection process and criteria for selection of the
commercial bank would follow the Bank's Disbursement Handbook procedures. The
Bank would, upon request, make a deposit equivalent to the Authorized Allocation of
US$350,000 for the IDA Special Account, and of US$100,000 for the GEF Special
Account. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
at least every three months or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the
necessary documentation, the Special Account bank statement, and a reconciliation of
this bank statement.
14. Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications would be fully
documented, except for expenditures under: (i) contracts for goods and works valued at
less than US$ 200,000 each; (ii) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$
100,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$ 50,000
equivalent; and (iv) expenditures on incremental operating costs less than US$ 50,000
equivalent.
III. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
Accounts
15. The PIU will establish an accounting and auditing system which will have the
capatbility of recording and retrieving all financial transactions associated with the project
in a timely manner and comply with internationally accepted accounting standards.
Audlits
16. Project Accounts will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The
Bonrower will provide the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year during
52



the life of the project), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request.
IV. PROJECT REPORTING
17. The PIU will prepare proper project reports and submit them to the Bank in a
timely fashion. These will include:
*  Semi-Annual project status reports, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation
progress, problems encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for
actions; (ii) the current state of project indicators ; and (iii) the current costs of
each IDA/GEF financed project component and estimated costs of
completion.
*  Procurement reports, including semi-annual reports tracking the disbursement
of the IDA credit and the GEF grant, as well as project expenditures and costs
(local and foreign).
.  Disbursement  reports,  including  semi-annual  reports  tracking  the
disbursement of the IDA credit and the GEF grant (local and foreign costs).
* Annual audit reports of project IDA Credit and GEF Grant expenditure and
accounts.
*  Implementation Completion Report will be prepared by the PIU within six
months of project completion.
53



Annex 7
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned                Actual
$163,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned!               Actual
--                16 months
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          --                16 months
First Bank mission (identification)                 --                5/20/1997
Appraisal mission departure                         --                5/18/1998
Negotiations                                     9/21/1998              11/5/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    1/15/1998               N/A
Prepared by: Ministry of Environment and local NGOs
Preparation assistance: No Government Preparation Funds provided by outside sources.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
MaTea Hatziolos                            Senior Coastal Management Specialist
Ezediine Hadj-Mabrouk                      Environmental Specialist
Robert Maurer                              Senior Urban Specialist
Betsy McGean                               Social Ecologist
Janis Bernstein                            Social Scientist
Karin Shepardson                           Environmental Economist
Martin Fodor                               Environmental Analyst
Anna Staszewicz                            Financial Analyst
Paola Meta                                 Operations Analyst
Laurence Boisson de Chazournes             Legal Specialist
Philllip Brylski                           Biodiversity Specialist
Stephen Lintner                            Quality Assurance
Michele De Nevers                          Quality Assurance
Peter Whitford                             Peer Review
Kerstin Canby                              Environmental Specialist
Darejan Kapanadze                          Resident Mission Operations Officer
Stephanie Abdulin                         Administrative Support
Lilian Pintea                              Summer Intern - Geographic Information
Systems
Catherine Golitzin-Jones                  Administrative Support
Kristine Schwebach                         Administrative Support
May Zeki                                   Administrative Support
'The project was proposed at the Project Concept Document (PCD) Stage as a quick turnaround Learning
and Imnovation Loan (LIL - 3 months). However, this was later reconsidered and the project was expanded
to include co-financing and undertake more detailed preparation.
54



Annex 8
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
COSTab Cost Tables for the Project
Draft TORs for PIU Staff
Draft TOR for Oil Spill Contingency Planning Component
Draft TOR for Integrated Municipal Water Management
Bank comments on Draft Kolkheti National Park Legislation
Public Awareness Materials
Letter of MOUC on the secondment of staff to the ICZM WG
Government of Netherlands, Letter of Intent for Project Co-financing
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis
Environmental Data Sheet
Project Information Document
C. Other
GEF Council Submission and Approval
Rioni River Basin Environmental Hot Spots Study, Feb. 1997
Kolkheti Protected Areas Management Guidelines, 1996
GEF Council CEO Endorsement Letter
*Including electronic files
55



CAS Annex B8
Generaed: 1 II2498
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
-                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~BR-" Loaos and IDL"A% Credi' in the Ope-ions Port'ioule
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual              Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                           -                  disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
No.                                                                       IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj          Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
G6-PE-8417    IDA 26580   1995  MINISTRY OF FINANCE              MUNICIPAL INFRA. REM        0.00       18.00           0.00          1.63      3.29       0.00      S             s
GE-PE-8414    IDA 28520   1996  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            HEALTH                      0.00      14.00            0.00         10.53      5.07       0.00      S            S
GE-PE-44388   IDA 28480   1996  REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA              STRUCT. ADJUST. TA          0.00       4.80            0.00          1.29      1.53      0.00       S            S
GE-PE-39892   IDA 28090   1996  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            TRANSPORT                   0.00      12.00            0.00          1.53       .14      0.00       HS           S
GE-PE-35784   IDA 29580   1997  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            POWER REHAB.                0.00      52.30            0.00         32.86     10.53       0.00      S            S
GE-PE-44830   IDA 29440   1997  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            OIL INSTITUTION BLDG        0.00        1.40           0.00          1.01       .23       0.00      5            S
GE-PE-8415    IDA 29410   1997  GOVT. OF GEORGIA                 AGRICULTURE DEVELOP.        0.00      15.00            0.00         10.60     -1.15       0.00      S            S
GE-PE-55573   IDA 30400   1998  GOvERNMENT OF GEORGIA            CULTURAL HERITAGE           0.00        4.49           0.00          4.43       .40       0.00      S            S
GE-PE-39929   IDA 30200   1998  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            SOCIAL INVEST. FUND         0.00       20.00           0.00         18.80      3.18       0.00      S             S
GE-PE-51034   IDA 29840   1998  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            SATAC II                    0.00        5.00           0.00          3.64      2.34       0.00      S            S
GE-PE-44797   IDA 29830   1998  GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA            SAC II                      0.00       60.00           0.00         19.57     19.05       0.00      S             S
GE-PE-50910   IDA 29760   1998  GEORGIA                          HUNICIPAL DEV.              0.00      20.90            0.00         18.87      3.97       0.00      5             S
Total                                                                                        0.00     227.89            0.00        124.76     48.58       0.00
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                96.88             147.77             244.65
of which has been repaid:                 0.00               0.00               0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               227.89             145.10             372.99
Amount sold                    :                0.00               0.00                0.00
of which repaid             :                0.00               0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed              :              124.76               0.00             124.76
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology CSecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursemnt data Is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
GaO uted by the Operaions Information System (OIS)                                      56



Annex 10
Georgia
PRICES ani GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     13os      1991     1993
- e "ocpnws                                                                        Inflation (%)
(t dnge)                                                                 .        20.000 -
Consumer pric                                                  162.7      39.3    s5000 
ImPlicit GDP defltor                          0.7     -4.5     162.7     402       10000/
Government financ5                                                                 5.000 -
N Of GDP)                                                                             0
Curetrevnume(exdgrmnts)                                           51       8.1              9t   n    t4    5    55   U
Current budget bance (exd grants)                                4 t       13                -    GDP el.  -*-CPi
Overd surplus/defidt (exd grants)                                -7.2     -5.5
TRADE
1115    1155       199S     199    --
(muons USSJ                                                                        Export and irnpot levels (Iml USS)
Tot iexports (fob)                                               347      400      r
Biack Mewal                                                     36        75
TO                                                               1 1      26
Manufactures                                                    265      233
Total imports (ci.)                                              686      733
Food                                                           163       186     2.500
Fud and energy                                                  t65      164
Capilalgoods                                                    121      127        0      _-     I- J.JI:--1J   I
Export price index (1987=100)                                                            so  *I  50  t3  t4   U   U
Import price index (1987-100)                   ..       .:Exi.o.t.   I: imports
Tesdtr   t                                     .ad (1987.100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1197     11S6      1996     1996
(mifons USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP ratio I%)
Export of goods and servceA                                      469      541       0      __   _.. _  _
Impots of goods and services                                     791      841           o a  a1   9' n.   11-n
Resource bdance                                                 -322     -300      10
Net Income                                                      J-a       .50
Nt current transfers                                             Is .9 160 139
Cumn acount balance,                                                               40 -
befor ofticil Capitai transer                                  -220     -211
Financitems (net)                                                260      130
Chage In net rsrves                                              -40       81    -50 o
em_o:
Reseres incdutinggold (mini.SS)                          .       158      18
Conversion rate (bcaWS$)                        ..      ..    857.5  1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1935      1996     1996
(m7ioNs USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                            1,212    1,365
ISRO                                                             0        0                             B
IOA                                                             84      157      Composition of ttal de*It,VA tnul   USS)
Totnidebtservice at                                               35       42                                    C
IBRD                                                             0        0                                   197
IDA                                                              0         1
Comnpostn of net resource flows                                                                              -
Offic  grants                                                   189    141 
Offica creditors                                               173      166
Private credito                                                  0        0
Foreign direct investment                                        6       20               E     __
Pofolio equitry                                                          t0  1
Wtrld Bank program
Commitmnt                                                       76       91      A -IRD                      E -  r
Disbursements                                                   a        76      B-IDA    0- Otl hrnuMtrla    F- Pival
Principa repayments                                              0        0      C- IMF                      G -Short-linr
Neti ow                                                         e 5      76
Intert payments                                                  0        I
Net tafert                                   ..       ..        65       76
Development Economics                                                                                               U2_U97
Note: Esrmates for economies of the former Soviet Union are suwbd to more than the usu  range of uncertainty.
a i Debt service due alter rescheduling.



Annex IO
Georgia at a glance
=
Europe &   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central middle-          -      --
Georgia      Asia  intome       Deveopment diamond'
Popubltion mid-1996 (miltons)                        5.4       479    1.125
GNP per capta `1996 (USS)                            850     2,180    1.750               Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (biIons USS)                                4.6     1,043    1,967
Averge annual growth, 1990-96
Popultion (%)                                        -0.2      0.3       1.4     GNP                            Gras
Labor force i%)                                      -0.1      0.5      1.8                    / A                r
Per   ------          -       p- -    rimary
Mort reAn  srtimate (latest year availabbe since 1989)                           capita                      ermcent
Povorty: headcount hdex (% oftpo,ulation)
Urban population (% of total popuation)              5s         65       56
Lif expectancy at birth (years)                       73        68       67
Infentmortallty(perl,000 #v birhs)                   1t         26       41              Accesstosafewater
Chiid malnutrition (% of childn under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                 ..                78
Illi te cy (% of populaton ge 15+)                     1         ..o.-
Gross primary enroliment (% of school-ng  population)  82       97      104             Goigia
MUle                                                82        97      105          ---- Lower-middle-incore Wgroup
Female                                              81        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1996    1995
GDP (b/tonsUS                                 ..      ..        4.3      4.6     EconomI a6oa
Gross domeatic investrmnVGDP                 ..    34.3        4.0       5.0            Openness of economy
Expcrt of goods end serviceDP                 ..      ..       16.2    11.8
Gros domeatic vings/GDP                      ..    31.1       -7.2      -1.5
Gross natonal savings/GDP                     ..       .       -4.8     0.4
Currmt account balance/GDP                    .        ..      -5.1     -4.6
Inteenst peyments/GDP                         ..      ..        2.9      1.4     Savings   ---------
Total debVGDP                                ..        .      28.2    29.8
Total debt sevice/xports at                  ..       ..       7.4       7.5
Present value of debVGDP                      ..      ..       23.7
Prsemt value of debt/exporb                   ..       .     217.7         .Ibtednes
197564  1986-96     1996      1996  199745
(aver-no annual gmwth)                                                               -    Georgia
GDP                                 5.3   -19.0      2.4       10.5      8.9   -      -Lower-middb-income pr
GNP per capita                      4.5   -17.2      2.0       12.7     6.8
Expoils of goods and servcs          ..      ..   -11.3       20.2      9.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1995    1996       Growth rates of output and lnvesstzntt%)
i'% Of GOP)
Agriculture                                   ..    25.5       35.3     33.5    155
Indusiry                                      ..    39.6       26.7    25.1    100
Manufacturing                               ..    30.2       20.1     18.9
ServkCs                                      ..    34.9        38.0    41.3      so- 
Private consumption                           .     55.8      100.0    92.8
General govmment consumption                  .     13.0        7.2      8.8     40.
Imports of goods and services                 .        .      27.4      18.4                    GOI       -o --GW
197546  1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                         Growth rate of exports and impot 
Agriculture                                  ..       ..        5.5      3.0     25
Industry                                     ..       ..        1.0     2.0      20-
Manufacturing                               ..       ..       1.0      2.0    t0a-
Services                                     ..       ..       54.0     16.3     5-
Private consumption                          ..       ..    -10.4       2.6             SI   92    3  
Gnrol govemment consumpton                   ..       ..       52.7    52.7    :1is
Groas domestic Investment                     ..      ..    123.0       43.4    -20 -
lmporlsofgoodsmnds rvices                    ..       ..    -15.5       9.1                  rExpors    o
Gross natlonal product                       5.3   -17.1        1.9     12.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary esbmates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The cdiamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wM
be hicomplete.
a / Debt service due after rescheduling.



Annex 1 1
GEF Incremental Cost Analysis
GEORGIA
INTEGRATED COASTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL COSTS AND GLOBAL ENVERONMENT BENEFITS
Overview
1.   The general objective of the GEF Alternative is to conserve biodiversity along the Black
Sea coast of Georgia. The project development objectives are to: (i) launch concrete and
sustainable actions in support of biodiversity conservation, including river, lake, coastal, marine
and freshwater biodiversity, through the protection and management of threatened forest and
critical wetlands ecosystems and the establishment of the Kolkheti National Park and the
Kobuleti Nature Reserve along the Black Sea coast of Georgia; and (ii) integrate these protected
areas into the broader development objectives of the coastal management project. These broader
objectives include establishing of a fraamework for integrated coastal planning and management
as a basis for sustainable economic activities along the Black Sea coast, and assisting Georgia in
meeting its regional commitments under the Black Sea Environmental Programme and various
international conventions and agreements related to the protection of the Black Sea. The GEF
Alternative intends to achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of approximately US$1.32
million above the Baseline. The proposed GEF Alternative should be viewed as complementary
to existing activities in the Georgian coastal area.
Context and Development Goals
2.   Georgia, a mountainous country covering 70,000 km2 with a population of 5.5 million
people, is situated between the south slope of the Caucasus Mountains, the east coast of the Black
Sea and the northern edge of the Turkish Anatolia plane. Forests cover 40% of the country,
largely in the Greater Caucasus Mountains (Georgia's northern border), the Lesser Caucasus (its
southern border), and in intervening lowlands and foothills. The principal landscapes of the
Caucasus include foothill and mountain forests and subalpine meadows of the Greater and Lesser
Caucasus; treeless mountain upland plateaus of the lesser Caucasus; humid lowland forests of
western Georgia, and the arid steppe and deserts of eastern Georgia. In the project region
between the Caucasus Major and Minor ranges of Georgia, the flora and fauna of at least three
biogeographic provinces (Europe, Central Asia, Middle East regions) converge, resulting in high
levels of biodiversity. The project target area and surrounding Transcaucasus region is identified
under the World Wide Fund for Nature's Global 200 Ecoregions program, which uses selection
criteria of species richness, levels of endemism, taxonomic uniqueness, unusual evolutionary
phenomena, and global rarity of Major Habitat Types.
3.   The Kolkheti wetlands are a Black Sea coastal ecological resource of global significance.
In 1996, the Kolkheti wetlands were designated as a Ramsar site (a wetland of international
significance). The Kolkheti wetlands area are also, unfortunately, one of the most threatened
ecosystems in Georgia. The wetlands incorporate a large and complex channel and river network
which drains into Lake Paliastomi and the Black Sea. The Kolkheti subtropical forests and
59



wetlland complex contains high levels of endemism and floral diversity. A number of relict
species from the Tertiary period occur only within the Kolkheti region or have a limited
distribution outside of this region. The region also provides critical habitat for numerous species
of migratory and wintering birds. These forest and wetland ecosystems are under threat as a
result of drainage of wetlands for agricultural and urban use, illegal hunting, forest harvesting,
peat and gravel mining, pollution, and invasion by nonnative species. Immediate threats for the
Kol]kheti wetlands area are the proposed expansion of the Poti Port terminal further into the
wetllands areas, and peat and gravel mining in Lake Paliostomi, timber harvesting and illegal
hunting during winter months due to Georgia's temporary energy crisis. The Kobuleti wetlands
area are under immediate threat due to pressure for agricultural expansion. Immediate legal
protection and implementation of the of the draft management plans of these areas will be critical
to halting these threats to the ecosystem.
4.   The broad development goals of Georgia focus on public sector restructuring; private
sector development; social protection and poverty reduction; and environmental protection. The
Government's overall development agenda attempts to focus on these issues consolidating the
stabilization recently achieved, strengthening the current economic recovery while protecting the
environment. The Government of Georgia has taken important steps toward improved
environmental management in recent years, including the development of national strategies,
recently approved framework environmental legislation and the development of specific
environmental laws underneath this framework, activities under the Black Sea Environmental
Program and some specific actions under the World Bank-financed Municipal Infrastructure
Rehiabilitation Project. For example, an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant is helping
the Government to prepare its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), designed to detail
environmental priorities as a basis for future cooperation, and strengthen the Ministry of
Environment. A Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan is also being prepared. Environmental
improvements will still face institutional challenges such as gaining cooperation from
governmental agencies with no previous history/capacity in dealing with these issues, promoting
public awareness, and building partnerships with NGOs. With the preparation of the World Bank
and GEF-financed programs, the Government intends to preserve Georgia's rich biological
diversity and natural resources base for future generations by implementing effectively the
recently approved environmental legislation. The country's natural resources, such as the
forests, will need to be appropriately managed to reduce illegal harvesting and damage, while
appropriate commercialization policies fostering renewal and growth could allow for a new
source of foreign exchange earnings.
Baseline Scenario
5.   The collapse of the Soviet Union in late 1991 and the attendant disruption in institutions
that managed the economy until then has forced the Georgian economy into a tailspin and
contributed to the outbreak of civil strife in the breakaway regions of Abkhazia and SoutL.
Ossetia. In early 1994 Georgia emerged from this period of turmoil with a collapsed economy
and significant negative social impacts. With Bank and IMF support, in mid-1994 the
Government embarked on a comprehensive reform program to rebuild the economy. By the end
of 1996, the fiscal deficit had been reduced, annual inflation lowered, the exchange rate
stabilized, and the economy registered a growth rate of 10.5 percent. Throughout this often
difficult period Georgia has put considerable effort in establishing the foundations of a market
economy. The task was especially challenging because Georgia started the transformation
virtually from scratch with existing institutions that were ill-suited to a market based economy.
60



Yet, unlike many of the other countries of the former Soviet Union, Georgia has a long tradition
of entrepreneurship which should serve it well during the transition. The medium term prospects
for the economy are good, based on robust growth in exports. There is a solid potential in
agriculture, and services are likely to develop strongly. With appropriate macroeconomic
stabilization policies and structural reforms, this potential can be achieved.  However, in the
short term the decline in output can only be moderated, not reversed.
6.   Since the transition, unsustainable timber harvesting, grazing, and game hunting have
accelerated, and now pose a major threat to Georgia's diverse and abundant biodiversity. In
addition, since the transition and the associated economic decline, local peoples are increasingly
seeking to reestablish traditional/historical land uses that were disrupted for over 70 years under
the former Soviet Union. The Kolkheti forest and wetland ecosystems are particularly under
threat as a result of forest harvesting, mining, drainage of wetlands for agriculture and urban use,
illegal hunting, invasion of non-native species, and pollution. In response to these activities, the
Government of Georgia has begun to act to protect important natural resources and to preserve
biodiversity.
7.   Under the Baseline Scenario, it is expected that the Government of Georgia expenditures
related to biodiversity conservation in the coastal area over the period of the project will beUS$
2.07 million.
8. A number of natural resource management and biodiversity conservation activities in
Georgia are being financed by other international developing agencies, or will be under
implementation through the proposed IDA project. These contributions include:
i. Two World Bank-managed investments (one proposed, one under implementation) which have
evolved from the BSEP. The proposed Integrated Coastal Management Project will
rehabilitate and protect Georgia's coastal Black Sea area as well as promote the sustainable
development of the region -- all activities expected to have a positive impact upon marine and
coastal biodiversity. The project includes components for legal and institutional harmonization
for coastal planning in coordination with local communities and interest groups, and
environmental quality monitoring and information systems which complement efforts initiated
under the BSEP and the regionally endorsed Black Sea Strategic Action Plan. In addition, IDA
funds will be used to help establish Park/Reserve infrastructure and equipment and develop
socio-economic activities in support zones in the Kolkheti and Kobuleti National Parks. The
Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project is aimed at improving efforts to reduce
coastal contamination, diminishing impacts on coastal and marine biodiversity. Components of
the two projects which will have specific positive benefits for coastal.biodiversity are estimated
at US$ 3.6 million.
ii. Dutch Government activities related to technical assistance for the assessment of major
erosion issues along the coast and the identification of cost-effective solutions for follow-on
investment, focusing on the Batumi and Poti areas (US$ 500,000).
iii. Dutch Government activities targeted towards the development of a national oil spill
contingency plan and emergency response capability for Georgia that will assist Georgia in
meeting its international commitments under conventions and protocols for the protection of the
Black Sea Environment (US$ 500,000).
iv. GEF Enabling Activities grant for the preparation of a National Biodiversity Strategy/Action
Plan and National Report (US$ 120,000).
61



v. Black Sea Environment Program. Georgia is one of the six Black Sea countries participating
in the BSEP, which has produced the Strategic Action Plan that seeks to reverse environmental
degradation of Black Sea ecosystems. The BSEP activities focus on building capacity in the
Ministry of the Environment in environmental management of Black Sea ecosystems (US$
68,900).
vi. UNDP Environmental Capacity-Building Project The project will strengthen the MoE,
especially in areas of information management and communication and professional
development and training activities at national, regional, district, and municipal levels. The
project also supports public awareness on environmentally related issues. The Project activities
which are expected to have specific positive benefits for coastal biodiversity are estimated at
US$25,000.
9.   Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$ 7.07 million
including nearly US$ 2.07 million from the Government of Georgia and US $5.00 million
through international cooperation.
10.  Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in improvements to the
protection and management of biodiversity within the proposed protected areas and public
awareness of the need for biodiversity conservation. NGO efforts will serve to increase
awareness of threats to biodiversity in the region. The Baseline Scenario will address issues of
environmental quality monitoring, coastal erosion, oil spill contingency planning and response,
regional developmental planning and water quality, capacity-building within the Ministry of
Environment and, to some degree, elementary protection of the Kolkheti and Kobuleti wetland
areas. However, existing government resources and international financing efforts directed to
forest and wetland biodiversity will not ensure protection of globally significant biodiversity in
the Kolkheti and Kobuleti designated areas. In terms of protecting biodiversity in the Kolkheti
wetlands region it is unlikely that the limited expenditures will have a significant impact in
slowing encroachment into these fragile habitats.
Global Environmental Objective
11. The GoG ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity in June 1994. The National
Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan (BSAP) and the Integrated Coastal Management Project, both
now under preparation, identify the project region as a center of Georgian biodiversity, and the
project activities as the highest priority for improving the protection of the threatened Caucasus
ecosystems, including the lowland forests and wetlands of the Kolkheti. The Forest Sector
StraLtegy, prepared as an input for the National Environmental Action Plan, identifies the need to
develop interdisciplinary forest planning, including through the integration of biodiversity
conservation. All of these recommendations are consistent with the GEF ICZM project.
12.  As a consequence of the current course of action, regarded as the Baseline Scenario,
Gecorgia's diverse and abundant biodiversity will likely continue to suffer from unsustainable
timber and fuelwood harvesting, overgrazing and associated disturbance, illegal hunting, and
habitat loss and fragmentation. In addition, the Kolkheti's coastal zone will probably continue to
lose marine, wetland and upland communities, and the unique animal and plant species dependent
upon these habitats.
13. Scope. The GEF Alternative would provide the means (above and beyond the Baseline
Scenario) for creating the Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve and implementing
62



management plans. The specific objectives of the draft management guidelines that would be
addressed under the project are: (i) conservation of the biodiversity of the Kolkheti region
through protection, management, and restoration of unique plant communities; (ii) protection of
fish spawning grounds necessary for the protection of freshwater and marine biodiversity and
their sustainable use; (iii) improved monitoring and applied research on biodiversity and the
effectiveness of conservation efforts;  (iv) establishment of infrastructure for improved
biodiversity protection and development of nature-based tourism in the region; (v) recovery of
threatened agricultural biodiversity; (vi) preparing and supporting Park administration and
management; and (vii) strengthening public education and awareness.
14. Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated atUS $9.04 million, detailed as
follows: (i) legal and institutional strengthening (for Ministry of Enviromnent and
agencies for integrated coastal management -- US$ 1.77 million (same as Baseline); (ii)
establishment of Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve and the
implementation of their management plans -- US$ 3.69 million (GEF financing - US$ 1.32
million); (iii) establishment of coastal environmental monitoring and informnation system -US$
1.65 million (same as Baseline); (iv) pollution control studies and oil spill contingency planning
and energy response capacity -- US$ 1.13 million (same as Baseline); (v) assessments of coastal
erosion and municipal water resources problems - US$ 0.5 million (same as Baseline); (vi)
development of national strategies for environmental protection -- US$ 0.29 million (same as
Baseline).
15. Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would provide the means for the
establishment of effective protected areas and the integration of biodiversity conservation
objectives into regional and local development. Global benefits would include the recovery of
forest and steppe habitats protecting endemic threatened flora and fauna, and effect their
recovery. Benefits generated from the project would also include the promotion of local and
regional cooperation in biodiversity conservation. In addition, the GEF Alternative would protect
unique coastal and marine and numerous threatened endemic species. Global benefits would
include the protection of migratory waterbirds and marine environments and species-rich steppe
communities, strengthening public education and awareness and restoring lowland forest,
wetland, and agricultural biodiversity.
Incremental Costs
16.  The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario US$ 7.07 million and the cost of
the GEF Alternative US$ 9.03 million is estimated at US$ 1.96 million, of which US$ 1.32
million is provided by GEF financing. This represents the incremental cost for achieving
sustainable global environmental benefits.
63



Table F
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sector   Cost Category   US$ Million   Domestic Benefits           Global Benefits
Legal and           Baseline         1.77          Increased public sector   Strengthened policy and legal
Institutional                                      capacity to manage coastal  framework for coastal! marine
Strenigthening (for                                environmental resources.    protected areas management.
Ministry of                                                                  Increased public sector capacity
Environment and                                                              to manage protected areas.
agencies for
integrated coastal
management                                 .                   _
With GEF        1.77           Same as above.            Same as above.
Alternative
Increment       0
Establishment of    Baseline        2.37           Increased protection of   Conservation of globally
the Kolkheti                                       coastal and marine wildlife  significant biodiversity in the
National Park /                                    and their foraging areas in   Black Sea Kolkheti region.
Kobuileti Nature                                   the Kolkheti National Park
Reserve                                            and Kobuleti Nature
Reserve.
With GEF        3.69           Same as above             Same as above
Altemative
Increment       1.32
Establishment of a   Baseline        1.65          Improved both national and  Increased collection and analysis
Coastal                                            regional monitoring       of information vital for
Environmental                                      capacity.                 conserving endemic flora and
Monitoring and                                                               fauna, as well as migratory
Information System                                                           waterbirds. Development of
methodologies for undertaking
biodiversity censuses and
inventories, ecological studies,
and studies on human impacts in
these areas.
With GEF        1.65           Same as above.            Same as above.
Alternative
Increment       0
Assessment of       Baseline        0.5            Increased understanding   Ensured protection of buffer zone
Coastal Erosion                                    and priority-setting of   between marine and freshwater
investments to address    aquatic systems with
major erosion issues along   international significance.
the coast.
With GEF        0.5            Same as above.            Same as above
Alternative
Increment       0
Pollution Control:   Baseline        1.10          Increased capacity to     Reduced impacts on coastal and
Studies & Oil Spill                                respond to pollution and oil  marine biodiversity in an
Contingency                                        spill emergencies.        international waterway.
Planining and
Emergency
Response
With GEF        1.10           Same as above.            Same as above.
__    _ ._____________  Alternative
Increment       0
64



Development of      Baseline        .29            Increased understanding   Increased understanding and
National Strategies                                and ability to set priorities   ability to set priorities for
for Environmental                                  for investments for national  investments for international
Protection                                         enviromnental             environmental benefits.
improvement
With GEF        .29           Same as above.            Same as above.
Alternative
Increment                 6
65



Annex 12
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
President of Georgia Decree
on
The State Consultative Commission
for
Integrated Coastal Zone Management
66



President of Georgia
Decree
No. 608     OcLober 25 of  998       Tbilisi
On Establishment of State Consultative Commission
for Integrated Coastal Zone Management
Taidng into consideration intemasional commits2ents within the 'Convenitn for
the Protection of the Black Sea Aganst Pollution" (Bucharost 19923) nd the "Strategc
Acciwn Plani for the Rehabilitaton and Protecion of the Black Sea (Istanbul, 1996), and
for th purposes of further development of integrated coastal zone management in
Georgia:
I. The 'SW*e Consultsive CAomnission for lntegrated Coasa Znme
Managei,net" (*trther - Commission) is establislicd with following composition;
Nino Clkhobadze          - Minister of Environment (Co-chairman);
MOrab Chkhcsikell        - Minister of Urbanisation and Conmuction (Co-chairman);
RavazAbashidze           - Vice-Mayor of the City of Batumi;
David Adelulvili         * Lcading State Adviser of Ministry of Trnsport;
Alexander Arobolidzc     - Director of engineeing company "A&E Consultants";
Giorgi Gachechiladzc     - First Deputy Chairman of Parliamentary Comminrna on
Envirommental Protection and Natural Resources;
Gia Gvazavsa              Chairman of Sub-Committee on Proteced Territories of
Parliamelituy C.ommittee on Environmentil Protion
and Natural ResourCe:
Gogi Vashakinadae        * Gencral Director of Georgia Intational Oil Corporation
Guigol Datunaihvl       - Hcad of Agricultue, Food and Enviromnental Protection
Divislon of Stat Clmncellery's Economio Sevice;
Arizor Tkhilaishvili     - Minister of Environment of Aebam Autonomous
Republic;
RevaaI Kikiani           * Leading State Adviser of Governor's Apparatus of
Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti Region;
Taricl Kalulashvffi      - Deputy Minister oflustice;
itesarion Lobzhanidxe    . Deputy Head of State Depaflment of Protucted Areas,
Nature Reserves and Hunting Managument;
trakli Motsrcra          - Vice-Mayor of the City of Pi;
Gin Nakhutsrishvili      - Director of Instituto of Botany of Georgian Acadomy .of
Sciences
Zurab Nemsadze           - Hlead ofDepartment ofTenitorial, Spatial Organisatlon,
Urban Development and Arhitoctur of Ministy of
Urbanisatlon and Construction;
David Nilkolcishvili     . Chairman of <Poseidon> Marine Asociation;
14vur   Ripava           - Head of Stste Depawtment of Environment of Apichazeti
L.vter Rigvuva    -Aiuctomus Retpublic;



Sakvare. Salukvadze      - iead of Depar=t=ent of Urbanisation and
Construction of Guria Region;
Zezva Gugunishvili i      First Deputy Head of State Department of
Tourism and Resorts;
Mikhell Kurkhuli         - Deputy 1ead of Sate Sanitary Supeavision and
Hygiene Norms DeparUtent of Ministry of liealth;
Gela Charkviani          - Deputy Minster of Economy;
Zaur Cbkhikvishvili      - Head of Division of Fvironmen tal Protection and
Natural Resource Use of Ministry of Agriculture
and Food;
Giorgi Khanishviii       - Deputy MiWster of rinunce;
Ekaterine Khmaladze      - Head of Division of Ecological Expertise of
Ninistry of Environment;
Leri Chochua             - Leading Specialist of Forestry and Forest Use
Division of State Department of Forestry;
2. On the basis of principles-of sustainable development the Comunission should:
a) Lilaboratc recommendations and suggestions for developing legal and
institutional framework in the area of integrated coastal zone management in Georgia;
b) Promote inter-agency co-ordination in planning, use of ntural resources. as
well as providing safe environment for public health withim the coastal zone;
5,) Elaborate recommendations for measures and policics necessary for.pwsiiing,
protecion and sustainable use of natural resources, as well as provision of safe
environment for public health in the coasta zone;
..d.) jProvid. a clearing house for, review, elaborate findings and recommendaxions
for majcr development projects in the coastal zone and for programs related to integr,aed
coastalI7-one management;
e) Stnmulaie m7d supportinitiatives at central, regional, and local levels aimed at
procectng Lhc environment of and the health of population in Georgia's coastal zone;
L Ilmprove niechanismns fbr dccision-making, conulatons and wide public
participakion zowards setling the problematic issues of integrated coastal -one
management;
g) Attract and co-ordinae the assistance of donor organisations in mobilising
investznents and technical assistance in environmental protection and sustainable
development of setleinents, related to integrae coastal zone management.
3. T'he Commission should elaborate and present by December 1, 2000 the
Strategy and Action Plan for Integrated Coastal Zone Management of Georgia.
4. The Ministry of Environment (N. Chkhobadze) and Ministry of Urhasation
and Constrn.tion (M. Chkhenkeli) should jointly claborate and approve the
Commission's Rules of Procedure.
F. Shevardnadze
(signature, SLamp)



c-s-ol-ob (M64-, wabA   M.' aftm8;n              ~ 'Oa;i
p. AD                            Omi;~-bQapW   Is|                                                               t >bt
k%W; von W63b An   &65;nl)   oSdftnlOn   2.GA5n %M_
6,, -DUS&Vmb 2000   ntj   I          6     4 I jam I Haa       ^- 
(01;
1O                                                                             192 Ca  ,po6h;p   CgiS  q6izn  Id.^.4nmo4A3b3"  IJa6n I2 6d-
&i~~~co Ia6nA o C:  3b 6 cqA-stn;it                   osj9l-baX31
<!FulJd<t,nlja~~~~~ 1. taAspts  aqa                                                           iW)GftLJ OnQn6;3IC  )6>b !bbVnJ
UJ      R-a 00&JOM, R-ba-pnA  ".CnDn.6l OAGt.,                          i08                              H    s,25 mf4VvaO0e j 
YU6,P   3 2000 6-1  Caaam 4nL.'o Va294     C  ba&ubcx~
F,n3rt 1q>~-ba643nmq Sa76nl"  av tz6 a S d i W6~,%Oint ,bo6n 8
Ra ImOma8- tJ wad a" a;>sa-                                                        babr Wo  bAJ4XJl'  6Ii.nrb
i, J @ J     4ob, .*>      vame KoVt,acv. e4- t-.                                                 ^   +S    bb
63  (6-F34,1011~ RadJ)  O> a8v6fS(^4 @33  ba8rAinbffe,
t;:b bn ta 8DW            M4 a43n %QA   "BAWd*rnu,6)46 pWoL  jmS366noounn     (b4ai.66,
&6 ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ , .                                              a;-Oaf ++,1!3.zrn6b*;l>^<
f/Naas\G~~~~~Ik ,18,30 %wolb kvzbK6wcha I a63unb Wtxoca6"
i'.  /  \ <;r t          bCoa, s        p8b4 o3  B839Wn ^         ,Yk)  Q4w    :)8e$-
.~~~q~f            f9fgf            b.J.,AoL,ziw  n() n6o14;nb    P.nSoit
a~~qWn
a,qail~a6   ":loJ      - tj n6y gin/S ,3b i ,ASLE jc.Ei66aBAnb
0a ;*nabiZ3Nn Smb,abrx
bc~q)ef~n i~~A~~Ja     - tbJ3J) kJ-Jzns b   3E*i A A tihe
PU3   f  b;6& 8nn   n9br



nls~~~~~~~~~~~~0tn h"W                                              badhnlsr p36wcrZa ipo
vto 346S%aJ;          -.,obrb 1M;316 4   l4W(*nfin b&i b n                                                                        baGrbArrr
4iZ0#X   &*36t7A.  1Ab,-                                                       %0*43 b-4=4         Ra -Ij-"6DAM
86"M              ;t"*W6AqQ3R:(l IIADM7i    t                                                       aMAta
a  s;ffW. -Xj * >3,~~~~~~~LV%ma  bAanGnLt                                            ba.)6,fw;l qV34aNs n(1
a34~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Mlvtw                                                    bucA6^  -63q bb)aAqj3lr  oni-66 4316;5b 3fS1A
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.jn Oct&f  aG6swmAb    MaGorJantoG boJrb qn!1fia3, oWv 4
"er~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r6 %6M                                                ' nd   &W-abM
leaAntnbtZ    n t   lno ~   ~     ~    ~    b  bMTnX   B,Oyk aa;AAbjrRO.pa  ann%A  
^464koonla  d > d z a 6: P                    r ba  bsn 1 d f  #sh v   W  U  &    n    b 1a4n n W o    n t
~~~~3t)NMA Rn  1     ;a6ZUnaSn%a3                                     &E       3 .06JU-3.l bJ;tG-.
64a3 - 3 46346  _ ' ^a~~~~1@  - 4n\e^ *^"  s 60n 6 t ,o q4 aLb     qA,bq6nS b.BvGjnb, %bj                               a4pnA
olJn                                      J~~~~~~~~~~~36;p".)ni,    J.4rrjjbobnb,%b,ij 1a9;b4G ;JA   niU    G%-gMBA
%Odw                        tO;ncai4ftv(8lsP*i4{ab  a a 4J~bvn
, 1M4tayT 1 3~a*l  ew3aqriRwm11         inX   a X        v  &i{41+90 >6anl   QVV4J36 8ca-3AJC



Concordance Table
Georgia- CREDIT AGREEMENT
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project
Agreements Reached at Negotiations              1   Corresponding Section of Legal
Documents
Procurement Arrangements, G2 (a)                                Section 3.02, Schedule 3
Disbursement Arrangements, G2 (b)                               Schedule I
Special Accounts, G2 (c)                                        Schedule 4
Project Management, G2 (d)                                      Section 3.01
Project Accounts & Auditing, G2 (e)                             Article IV
Reporting and Evaluation, G2 (f)                               to be incorporated into legal agreement
Counterpart Contribution, G2 (g)                                Section 3.01
Establishment of NICC, G3 (a)                                   Section 1.02(b)
Financial Management System, G4 (a)                             Section 6.01(a)
Adoption of National Park Legislation, G5 (a)                   Schedule 1, para 3
Environmental Review, G5 (b)                                    Schedule 1, para 3



Concordance Table
Georgia- GEF GRANT AGREEMENT
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project
Agreements Reached at Negotiations                    Corresponding Section of Legal
_             Documents
Procurement Arrangements, G2 (a)                                 Schedule 3.02, Schedule 3
Disbursement Arrangements, G2 (b)                                Schedule I
Special Accounts, G2 (c)                                         Schedule 4
Project Management, G2 (d)                                       Section 3.01
Project Accounts & Auditing, G2 (e)                              Article IV
Reporting and Evaluation, G2 (f)                                 to be incorporated into legal agreement
Counterpart Contribution, G2 (g)                                 Section 3.01
Establishment of NICC, G3 (a)                                    Section 1.02(b)
Financial Management System, G4 (a)                               Section 6.01(a)
Adoption of National Park Legislation, G5 (a)                    Schedule 1, para 3
Environmental Review, G5 (b)                                     Schedule 1, para 3



Map 1. Georgia and the Black Sea                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 29774
40.                                       41                                       42-                                      43'                                       44
GEORGIA
INTEGRATED COASTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
POESO MONITORING AND
*0INFORMATION SYSTEM
PROPO_SE KOLKHETI NATIONAL PARK
AND KORULETI AUE EEV
II UPPORT ZONE
GEORGIA BLACK SRA DRAINAGR EASIN
BOUNDARY
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:4
" 4US
2000
200
C  GLACIER AREAS
RIVERS
o SELECTED CITIES
OD  AUTONOMOUS REFUELIC CAPITALS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
- - - AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
I -NTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
T,Ai,~ .   ,pd-d bpyo A. p D-g ~,Th. Wo4Bo,1 B,oMk
U K  A--N             S:see WORD 29&775
\M4OLDOVA
ROMANIA (,                         eo
Krosnodor ~  ~       Csp'a
BULGARIA  Vo             loc6k   Sdo
--v                 TURKRKEY
4SLAMIC REP.                                             06                                      5KLMTR
./SYRIAN.\ OIRN-AMEA 
CYPIRE4S,   ARAB RZEP         IRAQ 
Aled,Mrroneun Soc                                                                                                                                              NOVTMBTR 1998~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEME 19



Map 2. Black Sea Coast and Wetlands Area, Project Sites
This op ,os prduced by the        R U -    A6
Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.  -tl1A.
Amldia                                 ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors,den,oninotions  FDRT)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti .p do ;o iif sn,ply m h pto
on the legol status ofoany ss'rimoy.m'GO GI,  A'
Sarpi                                                                  -  W Idies  AREAS
/~~~~~~~                                          j            _~    - --E
'.CvEySER 998



