Report No. PID5864
Project Name         Georgia-Integrated Black Sea Environmental Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       GEPE50911
Borrower                         Georgia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Environment
Kostava Str. 68a
Tbilisi, 380015
Georgia
Tel:    995-32-361-575
Fax:    995-32-98-34-25
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           December 15, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared        May 10, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         January 30, 1998
Projected Board Date             May 30, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Background.      Georgia was the first of the non-Baltic states to
declare independence from the Former Soviet Union (FSU) on April 9,
1991. A small country with a total area of 69,500 sq. km., and a
multi-ethnic population of 5.4 million, Georgia has, since
independence, experienced considerable political and civil strife
mainly due to secessionist tendencies of several ethnic groups.
Civil conflicts, first in South Ossetia then in Abkhazia, resulted
in more than 300,000 Internally Displaced People (IDP) and in the
collapse of the country's economy. However, the pact with the South
Ossetia and the cease-fire with Abkhazia, have contributed to
greater political stability, allowing the Government to adopt a new
Constitution and implement a democratization process, make progress
toward restoring law and order, and focus attention on rebuilding
the economy.
2.      Coastal Zone and Environment.    Georgia with its 310 km long
coastline borders the Black Sea - one of the largest enclosed water
bodies in the World (surface area - 420,000 sq. km., volume -
540,000 cub. km.). The Black Sea is connected to the Mediterranean
through the narrow Bosphorus straight, which renders the Sea
hydrologically as actually isolated water body with ecologically
important anoxic conditions below a depth of about 150 m (maximal
depth of the Sea exceeds two km.). This natural anoxia restricts
the life supporting conditions only to the 17t of the total volume
of the Sea.



3.      The Georgian portion of the Black Sea coastal zone is squeezed
between Mountain ranges of Greater and Lesser Caucasus and wetlands
of the Kolkheti - triangularly shaped lowland, weakly inclined
towards the sea. Characterized by wetlands and marshes along much
of the coast and steep cliffs and mountains in the north, major
coastal habitats include near-shore marine fishery areas, coastal
barrier dunes, extensive peat bogs, coastal deltas and braided rivers.
4.      Much of the coastal zone is densely populated, except those
areas, where natural conditions restrict human settlement (undrained
marshes). The major coastal cities are Batumi (137,000), Poti
(75,000) and Sokhumi (122,000) in Abkhazia.
5.      Georgia inherited from Soviet times the range of heavily
polluting industrial giants in capital Tbilisi, Rustavi and
throughout the country (such as Batumi oil - refinery, Kaspi cement
factory, Chiatura manganese combinate, Zestaponi factory of ferrous
compounds, Kutaisi litophone and many others). Most of these
industrial facilities are actually out of operation and all of them
incur large environmental liabilities, a significant obstacle
against their future privatization.
6.      Discharge of untreated municipal waste-water and uncontrolled
disposal of solid-waste represents the largest source of pollution,
contaminating the environment with organic matter and bacteria.
Sewage systems are nominally existing in 45 cities, but only 32 of
them are equipped with treatment facilities and all of them are in
desperate conditions hardly possible to rehabilitate. In many cases
the sanitary zones established to protect drinking water supply
systems are violated and occasional seepage of communal wastes into
the water supply systems can not be excluded.
7.      Agriculture continues to contaminate surface and ground water
resources with organic substances, fertilizers and pesticides even
to a greater extent then other sources. Quantification of this
source of pollution is most problematic because of its diffuse
nature and lack of any reliable data and information regarding the
application of chemicals and their spatial distribution across the
country.
8.      Shortage of reliable environmental information, insufficient
institutional capacities for environmental management and political
decision-making at all levels, and lack of environmental awareness
and responsibility among the general population do not contribute to
an easy solution of past and present environmental problems.
Transitional period brings new patterns of environmental problems
which demand development of novel approaches to identify and resolve
them. Old methods will no longer work. The emergence of small
privately owned enterprises and new consumption patterns in the
society, combined with old problems and potential new and large
scale development of transit transport infrastructure is expected to
substantially change the scope of problems and requires major
changes in policy responses.
9.      Environmental problems are most acutely felt in coastal regions
- 2 -



of the country. Externalities of up-stream human activities
ultimately end up on the coastal zone, multiplying its own
environmental problems at the land-sea interface. The Black Sea
plays a crucial role in the welfare of the population of Georgia.
Georgia's future economic development prospects will depend, in
part, on its ability to develop economic activities, such as tourism
and to design a strategy for improved utilization of the Black Sea
coastal zone. Over-fishing and off-shore dumping have devastated
the Black Sea and its coastal zone. In general, the insufficient
planning of uses in the coastal zone and lack of regional, as well
as international management of the natural resources have resulted
in uncoordinated and unsustainable development and a consequent loss
of economic revenues.
10.     With its mandate, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) of Georgia
is responsible for the co-ordination of government efforts to
protect the country's environment from pollution, saving renewable
and non-renewable natural resources from degradation, including
protection of rich biological resources and their diversity.
Despite the fact, that the financial capacities of the MoE are
substantially weaker then that of other government agencies of the
country, it has, in recent period, succeeded in making important
steps towards strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for
environmental management. The "Environmental Protection Law",
developed by the MoE and adopted by the Parliament in December,
1996, represents a major breakthrough in this direction. This was
promptly followed by the approval of the Law on "Environmental
Permits" and "State Ecological Expertise" opening the way for the
introduction of environmental impact assessment procedures for major
development projects, as was the case with the Western Route Export
Pipeline - first ever application of EIA in the country's history.
In addition, the Law on the Establishment of the Kolkheti National
Park, important constituent of the system of protected areas and
component of the proposed project, passed first hearings in the Parliament.
11.     MoE represents the government in regional efforts for the
protection of the Black Sea (in particular within the framework of
the Black Sea Environmental Program-BSEP-). Under BSEP support, a
national ICZM report was prepared in 1996. The proposed IBSEP
project is based on the recommendations of the report and the
initial ICZM program launched in conjunction with the Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (MIRP).
12.     In implementing the requirements of the Bucharest Convention
for the Protection of the Black Sea against pollution (1992) and the
Odessa Ministerial Declaration (1993), a regional Black Sea
Strategic Action Plan (BS-SAP) was prepared and then approved and
signed on October 31, 1996 by all six Black Sea littoral countries.
The BS-SAP indicates major targets directly related to the ICZM
process at the national level, namely: (i) preparations of
national ICZM strategies and guidelines, (ii) establishment of
inter-sectoral ICZM Committees, (iii) preparation and adoption of
national ICZM laws by the year 2000.
13.     MoE coordinated BSEP activities at the central level.    The
- 3 -



challenge now is to maintain the momentum and required level of
activities; build adequate institutional capacity; improve co-
ordination; and provide necessary support to the implementation of
ICZM and other Black Sea related activities.
Project Description
14.             The project is designed as a first and pilot step in the
implementation, with regards coastal zone management, of the
regional Black Sea Strategic Action Plan and the Georgian national
ICZM. Accordingly, its scope was limited to the following components:
(i)      ICZM Institutional Capacity-Building (US$0.5 million).
15.     This component aims at the establishment of an ICZM
institutional framework composed of (i) an operational ICZM Unit;
(ii) a National ICZM Consultative Committee; and (iii) three Local
ICZM Consultative Committees.
16.     The operational ICZM Unit will be built, under the direct
authority of the MoE, on the basis of the existing small unit
established as part of the MIRP/BSEP initial ICZM program. The
existing capacity will be strengthened to enable it to carry-out
technical and management activities. It will act under the project
as a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with executive powers for
overall project supervision and coordination, and contracting and
disbursement oversight, in accordance with Government and Bank procedures.
17.     With project funded technical assistance, the Unit will
undertake various activities such as: drafting necessary ICZM legal
and regulatory documents; finalizing ICZM strategy and action plan;
preparing a coastal land use master plan; establishing a coastal
environment information system; preparing the first report on the
state of the environment in the Georgian coastal region; launching a
training and public awareness program; and initiating and
supervising the activities under the other components of the
project. The Unit will liaise with the national and local ICZM
consultative committees and with concerned public and private
technical and management agencies. The Unit would be provided with
equipment, training, and technical assistance.
18.     The National ICZM Committee would be formally established by a
Presidential Decree. It would be co-ordinated by the Ministry of
Environment as lead agency and would consist of representatives of
relevant government sectoral and planning agencies, local
authorities, academia, private sector, and the public. It would act
as an inter-sectoral consultative body to provide advice on ICZM
policy, strategic, and planning issues. The support of key
stakeholders will be essential for the development and passage of an
ICZM legal framework, including an ICZM Law and monitoring norms and
standards; an ICZM strategy; and a coastal land use master plan. The
Committee could also serve as an arbitration mechanism for Multi-
sectoral, multi-stakeholder, and complex issues. It would also
review progress and accomplishments of the proposed project.
- 4 -



19.     The ICZM Unit will help establish, during the project, a
network of three Local ICZM Consultative Committees (LCCs) in:
Batumi, Supsa, and Poti. The main role of the LCCs would be to
provide critical linkage at the local level and information
concerning local environment, social, administrative, agricultural,
cultural, and economic issues and assist in establishing ICZM
priorities for their respective localities.
(ii)    Establishment of the Kolkheti National Park and
Kobuleti Nature Reserve (US$1.5 million)
(a)     Kolkheti National Park (KNP)
20.     The Kolkheti wetlands are a Black Sea coastal ecological
resource of international significance. In 1994 the World Wildlife
Fund-Georgia (WWF-Georgia) identified the Kolkheti wetlands as one
of seven potential national park sites in Georgia and subsequently
drafted, with support from the World Bank-executed BSEP/GEF program,
guidelines for the development of the park. The KNP was designated
as a Ramsar site (a wetland of international significance) in 1996.
A draft law creating the Kolkheti National Park (KNP) has passed the
first hearing of the Parliament.
21.     The Kolkheti park will encompass a total wetland area of 67753
hectares. This area will include different zones for varying degrees
of management and activities including: a strict nature zone, a
managed nature zone, a visitor zone, and a support zone in which
existing agricultural and cultural activities would remain.
(b)     Kobuleti Nature Reserve (KNR)
22.     The Kobuleti Nature Reserve (KNR) is located in an adjacent
area to the Kolkheti National Park (KNP) at about 0,5-1 km distance
from the Black Sea coast. Its area covers over 777 hectares and
includes an ecosystem with rich biodiversity including rare, endemic
and relic species; swampy alder grovels; and swampy forests.
23.     The project resources are insufficient for the full-scale
management and protection of the park and the reserve. Project
assistance would therefore be limited to the urgent investment and
management program, as proposed in the WWF-Georgia study/guidelines.
The State Department of Protected Areas will assume overall
management responsibility for the park and reserve. Initial
activities would include: establishment of a control system;
installation of minimal infrastructure/shelters for guards; setting-
up of administrative and operational structure; preparation of
management plan; establishment of monitoring system; development of
integrated socio-economic activities to provide incentives for park
protection and rehabilitation; promotion of the park at the
national and international levels; and initiation of training and
public awareness programs.
(iii)   Establishment of a Coastal Monitoring & Information
System (US$0.8 million).
-5-



24.     Urgent needs for monitoring of coastal and off-shore water
quality, bathing water, major ports, rivers and estuaries and major
point sources of pollution were identified in an initial regional
study, commissioned by BSEP/TACIS. Project support would include:
preparation of a feasibility study; development of new monitoring
standards and regulation; procurement of necessary measurement,
sampling, and analysis equipment for selected monitoring
laboratories and agencies; establishment of an information system
integrating and supporting the monitoring and planning work;
initiating a beach flag program; organization of training programs;
and establishment of a monitoring and information network with nods
in Poti, Ozurgeti/Supsa, Kobuleti, Batumi and Tbilisi.
(iv)    Evaluation of coastal erosion (US$0.5 million).
25.     The project would conduct feasibility studies to evaluate
technical options and investment requirements for coastal erosion
abatement and follow-on projects, in particular in the critically
damaged and risk-exposed areas of Poti (Rioni River-Mouth) and
Batumi (Chorokhi River-Mouth).
(v)     Development of a national contingency plan (US$0.2
million).
26.     In implementation of the regional Black Sea Strategic Action
Plan and to enable the country to deal with existing and future
problems and risks of oil pollution, the project would support the
preparation, in accordance with IMO guidelines, of a national
contingency plan and emergency response program covering vessels,
ports, and offshore installations.
Financing
27.     The project cost is estimated at US$3.5 million to be financed
by an IDA credit and Government contributions.
Implementation
28.     The project would be implemented in approximately three years.
The project would be managed and coordinated by the Ministry of
Environment and executed by the ICZM Unit. The State Department for
Protected Areas would be responsible, with assistance from WWF-
Georgia, for the execution of the component related to the Kolkheti
National Park and the Kobuleti Nature Reserve.
Sustainability
29.     The Government is committed at the highest level (the
President) to the project. In addition, by focusing on
institutional development, the project will create the conditions
for both immediate and long term impacts. Existing ICZM Unit will be
responsible of project execution and its capacity will be further
strengthened to continue the work on the important and long term
issue of ICZM. Also, existing forestry/protected areas staff will
be responsible for park and reserve management and operations.
- 6 -



Recruitment of new personnel is not necessary. These activities will
also be able to generate revenues from eco-tourism and other socio-
economic activities.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
30.     While limited, the Bank experience in Georgia is quite
satisfactory. Relevant supported projects include in particular the
Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (MIRP), which was
identified and prepared rapidly in response to the country's
immediate needs in the aftermath of the civil war. The MIRP is
nearing the end of successful implementation. Georgia's initial
ICZM Program was "seeded" into the MIRP project as a small
technical assistance component.
31.     The Bank is also involved in an IDF grant project for the
preparation of Georgia's NEAP and a GEF grant for the development of
a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan.
32.     At the international level, regional efforts for saving the
Black Sea are coordinated by the Black Sea Environmental program
(BSEP) based in Istanbul, Turkey. Various components of the BSEP are
executed by the UNDP (UNOPS), the Bank and UNEP. The Bank executed
the BSEP Urgent Investment Portfolio (UIP), ICZM, and Biodiversity
components.
33.     Lessons learned include:   (i) clear priority, ownership, and
commitment are key; (ii) institutional capacity building in an area
such as ICZM is crucial; (iii) small-scale, focused, and simple
projects are more successful; and (iv) early establishment and use,
if possible, of existing PIUs are recommended. The project design
has integrated and taken into consideration these four lessons.
Poverty Category
34.     In the long run, improved planning and management of coastal
area and environmentally beneficial investments will have a positive
impact on the protection and enhancement of critical coastal
habitats, which provide the resource base for local population, such
as fishermen and farmers involved in subsistence agriculture.
35.     New types of economic activities, such as eco-tourism and eco-
farming will provide more sustainable livelihoods for local
population and generate alternative sources for income. Investments
in the management of the Kolkheti National Park will benefit the
local population both directly (enhancement of work conditions,
employment opportunities for construction and maintenance of
infrastructure, etc.) and indirectly (sustained employment
opportunities in multiple-use buffer zones).
Environmental Aspects
36.     The proposed project is classified as category "C".    The very
nature of the project guarantees the positive character of
environmental impacts. The project is designed to assist in
- 7-



protecting the coastal environment with particular focus on the
ecosystem of the Kolkheti wetlands region. Monitoring and
information systems will be established and institutional and legal
capacity will be strengthened to deal with coastal urgent protection
and safety requirements and meet international environmental
commitments in the area.
Project Benefits
37.     IBSEP implementation would: (i) further strengthen the ICZM
institutional development process; (ii) assist Georgia in meeting
its international obligations in managing the Black Sea coastal
zone; (iii) improve the capacity of local authorities in the coastal
zone management and decentralized planning process; (iv) increase
environmental awareness of local communities; (v) improve links
between central and local authorities; (vi) open new opportunities
for economic development in coastal regions; (vii) improve the
management of key coastal habitats and protected areas; (viii)
improve environmental conditions through focused investments; and
(ix) increase public participation in the decision-making process
through public awareness programs.
Project Risks
38.     The major risks associated with the Project are the following:
- Failure of the Ministry of Environment to coordinate and manage the
project;
- Lack of incentives for park/reserve staff to protect and
develop the area (low     salaries);
-       Eco-tourism would not develop for reasons beyond the project
(e.g. political, economic);    and
- Potential resistance from other sectoral interests against the
integration of environmental consideration into coastal
development decision-making process.
Benefits and Risks
39.     These risks would be mitigated by: maintaining operational
partnership with the Ministry of the Environment and other
Government planning and technical agencies; conducting a strong
supervision program; creating a conducive consultative process;
developing promotional activities and follow-on projects; and
strengthening national and local capacities.
Contact Point:           Marea Hatziolos, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5779
Fax No.: (202) 477-0568
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
- 8 -



components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 9, 1998.
-9-



