Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3156 GE
Developmentent Credit Agreement
(Integrated Coastal Management Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 27, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3156 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1999, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Ministry of Economic Affairs of 
the Netherlands (the Netherlands) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount of NLG 
2,000,000 equivalent to assist in financing Parts D and E of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Netherlands; and 
(C)
by agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Agreement), the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting as an Implementing Agency for the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF), has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Grant) to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of SDR 1,000,000 to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with  modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraph (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
 (b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
“SNICC” means the State National Inter-Agency Consultative Commission 
Committeefor  Integrated Zone Management established by Presidential Decree dated 
October 25, 1998 for the purpose of inter-agency and inter-sectoral coordination of 
integrated planning and management of coastal areas; and 
(c)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing 
May 1, 2009, and ending November 1, 2033. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on November 1, 2018 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’'s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’'s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the PIU under the overall coordination and policy guidance of 
the SNICC, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resourcesmeans required 
for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 45 to this Agreement. Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’' services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the PIU, establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall through the PIU: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested;
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Page  5
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Dutch Grant or the GEF Grant 
made to the Borrower 
for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Dutch Grant 
Agreement or the GEF 
Grant Agreement, respectively; 
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused 
by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under said 
agreements; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the PIU has established a financial management system and has selected an 
auditor both acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement, 
save for the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70  Ir. Abashidze S170 Barnov St.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212348 MOFIN SV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) for Parts A and C
   900,000
of local expendi-
of the Project;
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
(b) for Part B of the
   200,000
local expenditures
Project
(2)
Consultants' Services
100%
and Training
(a) for Parts A and C
 1,000,000
of the Project
(b) for Part B of the
   400,000
Project
(3)
Works for Part B of
   400,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures and 80%
of local expendi-
tures
(4)
Incremental
100%
Operating Costs
(a) for Parts A and C
    200,000
Page  7
of the Project;
(b) for Part B of the
    100,000
Project
TOTAL
  3,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management, monitoring and supervision, 
including office supplies, vehicle operation, telephone service, office heating, and 
travel  , and   operation and maintenance expenses,  but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower's civil service, as set forth in the annual budget prepared 
by the PIU and approved by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;, except  that withdrawals, in an  aggregated amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 7000, may be made in respect of  categories (1)(a) and (4)(a) on 
account of  payments made before that date but after November 1, 1998; and (b) 
payments made, or to be made, for expenditures under Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), and 
(3) and 4(b)(b) unless the Borrower has: (A) enacted legislation acceptable to the 
Association regarding the establishment of Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature 
Reserve; and (B) presented to the Association an environmental review of the 
infrastructure development program under Part   BB of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
The Association may require, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower, withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for: (i) individual 
consultants, under contract costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) works and 
goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (iv) incremental 
operating costs; and (v) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen institutions in Georgia to manage 
the coastal resources of the Black Sea by developing, testing and evaluating methods 
to effectively integrate environmental planning and management into economic 
development activities along the Black Sea coast.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:  
Institutional Building Component
1.
Provision of assistance to: (i) the NISCC for the drafting of legislation 
outlining the mandate and responsibilities of a coastal zone authority and codes of 
conduct for development activities in the coastal zone; and (ii) municipal and 
regional governments for developing master plans for the management of the coastal 
zone. 
2.
Enhance public awareness and environmental education on key issues related to 
the Black Sea coastal and marine environment, carrying out of workshops and training 
Page  8
of selected staff, including attendance in international conferences, workshops and 
seminars. 
3.
Provision of assistance for the initial operation of NISCC and of local coastal 
zone management consultative committees in Batumi, Poti, and Kolkheti National Park. 
Provision of assistance for the preparation of management plans aimed at the 
improvement of biodiversity protection and management. 
Part B: 
Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve
Establishment of park and reserve infrastructure, provision of assistance for 
the preparation of management plans aimed at the improvement of biodiversity 
protection and management, establishment of a local advisory committee, establishment 
of wetland monitoring and environmental information systems, technical training of 
staff responsible for, and carrying out of studies related to the development of 
Kolkheti National Park and Kobuleti Nature Reserve.
Part C: 
Coastal Environment Quality Monitoring System 
1. 
Assistance in the preparation of a feasibility study for setting up a coastal 
monitoring and information system; development of new monitoring standards and 
regulations; provision of necessary measurement, sampling and analysis equipment for 
selected monitoring laboratories and agencies; establishment of an information system 
to integrate and support the monitoring and planning work; initiating a beach flag 
program; organization of training programs; and establishment of a monitoring and 
information network.
Part D:
Evaluation of Coastal Erosion
Analysis of major coastal erosion problem areas through a comprehensive 
assessment of water resource use by municipalities focusing on Poti and Batami, 
preparation of proposals for addressing such problems, including cost benefit analysis 
and feasibility studies.
Part E:
Oil Spill Contingency Planning
1.
Preparation of a national oil spill contingency plan and an emergency response 
program including a user-based financing  mechanism for the oil spill emergency 
program. 
2.
Development of proposals for port reception facilities to deal with small  
operational spills and ship-based waste. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  9
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 1,060,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to all contracts for goods the first contract for both goods 
and works  awarded in accordance with the provisions of Parts B, and  first contracts  
awarded in  accordance with the  provisions of  Parts  C.1 and C.4 of this Section, 
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
(b)
With respect to the first contract awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Parts C.2 and C.3 respectively, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; (ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; (iii) in addition, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services , estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget.
Services for carrying out a public awareness and media outreach campaign under 
Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $170,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection.
Services for carrying out financial audits under the Project estimated to cost 
less than $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Services related to the preparation of the park management plan, community 
support and regional planning, alternative land use studies, project advisory services 
and the preparation of information materials estimated to cost less than $600,000 
equivalent in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  11
4.
Single Source Selection.
Services for: (a) carrying out training under Parts A and B of the Project; and 
(b) designing a feasibility study under Part B of the Project which are estimated to 
cost less than $136,000 equivalent in aggregate, may, with the Association’'s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
During implementation of the Project, the Borrower, through the Ministry of 
Enviroment,  shall:  
(a)
maintain the PIU with adequate staffing under the supervision of a 
manager whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Association;  
(b)
establish nno later than April 30, 1999,,  establish and thereafter, 
maintain the center a working group for the advancement of the integrated coastal zone 
management as a multi-disciplinary entity under the aegis of the Borrower’s Ministry 
of the Environment  which shall include  staff and include staff seconded from the 
Borrower’s Ministries for Environment, Urbanization and Construction, Health, 
Page  12
Transport and State Department offor Protected Areas for the purpose of building  
institutional capacity of said agencies on integrated coastal zone management training 
such seconded staff in coastal management practices;
(c)
maintain, in conjunction with the Ministry of Urbanization and 
Construction,during implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain NISCC 
which shall be responsible for providing policy guidance and inter-agency coordination 
with respect to implementation of the Project; and 
(d)
ensure, together withcause the State DepartmentDirectorate for  for 
Protected Areas, under the Ministry of Natural Resources to closely cooperateion with 
the PIU and the working group Center referred to in paragraph 1 (b)  of this Schedule, 
in the implementation of Part B of the Project.
2.
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future sustainability of coastal management activities in Georgia; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association on or about November 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by January  31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $350,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  13
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  14
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
