Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2731 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Health and Population Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 12, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2731 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,  dated June 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated April 26, 1995, from 
the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the performance of the Borrower's health sector (hereinafter called the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau 
(KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent to DM 19 million (nineteen 
million Deutsche Mark) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement or agreements (the KfW Agreement) entered into between the 
Borrower and KfW; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CAM" means Carte d'Assistance Medicale, the Borrower's existing 
pre-payment scheme within the public health sector;
(b)
"CPPF" means Coordination du Programme de Planning Familial, the 
Borrower's office of coordination for the family planning program within MOPH; 
(c)
"Fbu" means the Burundi franc, the Borrower's currency;
 
(d)
"Hospital Study" means the study to be carried out under Part B(2)(A) of 
the Project defining the Borrower's needs with regard to health personnel and 
equipment for the Project Hospitals and all health centers in the Borrower's provinces 
of Bururi, Kayanza, Muramvya, Muyinga and Ngozi.
(e)
"IEC" means information, education and communications;
 
(f)
"MOPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health;
 
(g)
"BRB" means Banque de la Republique du Burundi; 
 
(h)
"Project Coordination Team" means the team within MOPH which shall 
coordinate Project activities and be responsible for administrative and financial 
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual;
(i)
"Project Hospitals" means the nine hospitals to be rehabilitated under 
Part B (2) of the Project;
(j)
"Project Account" means the Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated April 11, 1995, 
and April 22, 1995, between the Borrower and the Assocation.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The withdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be  designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2005, and ending February 15, 2035. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2015, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  4
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOPH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative and health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, the Borrower 
shall: (a) open and maintain during the Project execution period, an account in Fbu in 
BRB and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; (b) deposit into the 
Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $80,000 (the Initial Deposit); (c) 
thereafter, on the first day of each calendar quarter, deposit into the Project 
Account amounts required to meet at least three months of expected project 
expenditures or any other amount as agreed between the Borrower and the Association 
for further implementation of the Project; and (d) ensure that the amounts deposited 
into the Project Account are used exclusively for the Borrower's counterpart 
expenditures under the Project and are included in the Borrower's public expenditure 
Page  5
program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
By not later than December 31, 1995, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment: 
(i)
A policy framework for management autonomy of public hospitals 
taking into 
account the contents of the Implementation Manual, 
pertaining to such policy 
framework; and
 
(ii)
draft regulations and by-laws for its autonomous public hospitals; 
and
(b)
after review of the policy framework and draft regulations and by-laws 
referred to in (a) above by the Association and taking into account the Association's 
comments and recommendations thereon:
(i)
by not later than March 31, 1996, adopt a policy framework, 
satisfactory to 
the Association, including a timetable for 
implementing the framework;
(ii)
by no later than June 30, 1996, cause each of the existing 
autonomous public 
hospitals to adopt appropriate new regulations and 
by-laws; and (iii) 
thereafter cause each new autonomous public 
hospital to adopt appropriate 
regulations and by-laws within 
three months of being granted its autonomy.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall engage within MOPH, by not later than six 
months after the Effective Date the following persons, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Part II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(a)
two consultants to design and install management accounting systems and 
training programs in hospital management for the Borrower's autonomous public 
hospitals as required under Parts A.2 (c) and (d) of the Project;  
(b)
a consultant to carry out the activities necessary to improve the CAM as 
required under Part A.3 (a) (i) and A.3 (b) of the Project;
(c)
a consultant to assist in the preparation of the Borrower's public 
expenditure program within the health sector in each year of Project implementation as 
required under Part A.3 (a) (ii) of the Project; and
(d)
a consultant specialized in communications to assist in the carrying out 
of Part C (c) of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
Page  6
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested;
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request; and
 
(iv)
have, without limitation on its obligation under (b)(i) of this 
Section and at 
the request of the Association, the records and 
accounts for the Special 
Account for each six-month period 
(January 1-June 30, July 1-December 31) 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b)(i) and included in the 
six-monthly audit (if any) 
referred to in paragraph (b)(iv) of this 
Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which makes it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
The KfW Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 1996, 
or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association for its review a detailed 
assessment of total personnel needs within the public health sector;
(b)
the Borrower has engaged a consultant specialized in mass communications 
planning and the key staff for the Project Coordination Team, as specified in 
Page  7
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreemet, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has introduced an accounting and financial management system 
for implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has prepared all bid documents for contracts to be awarded 
during the first year of Project implementation after the Effective Date, satisfactory 
to the Association; and
(e)
the Project Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement has 
been opened and an initial amount of $80,000 equivalent has been deposited therein. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1830
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Telex:
5135 BDI MINFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Severin Ntahomvukiye
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Rogerson
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated           % of
                                  (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                         SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                       100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures
                                                      and 80% of local
                                                      expenditures
    (a) Hospital                 1,200,000
        rehabilitation
    (b) Other civil                350,000
        works
(2) Goods
    (a) Office equipment,        1,400,000           100% of foreign
        other hospital                               expenditures
        equipment and                                and 80% of local
        audio-visual                                 expenditures
        equipment, and
        furniture
    (b) Major hospital             950,000           40%
        equipment
    (c) Vehicles                   450,000           100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 80% of local
                                                     expenditures
(3) Drugs                          650,000           100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures
                                                     and 80% of local
                                                     expenditures
(4) Consultants'                 5,700,000           100%
    services,
    training and
    studies
(5) Incremental                  1,350,000          70% of operating
    expenditures
      expenditures                                    
      until June 30,
                                                    1998 and
Page  9
                                                    50% thereafter
(6) Refunding of                   450,000          Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  1,800,000
           TOTAL                14,300,000
                                 =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
The term "incremental operating expenditures" means incremental recurring 
costs required for the implementation of the Project including the following:  
(i)
operating vehicles and equipment;
 
(ii)
maintenance of equipment, vehicles and office facilities;
 
(iii)
rental of office space;
 
(iv)
travel costs and travel subsistence allowances; and
 
(v)
office administration and communication.
 
(d)
The term "major hospital equipment" means sophisticated equipment 
requiring periodic servicing and spare parts and the use of which is standardized in 
the Project Hospitals.
(e)
The term "other hospital equipment" means all hospital equipment which is 
not major hospital equipment as defined in subparagraph (d) above.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the health status of the Borrower's 
population and contribute to slowing population growth through increasing the 
availability and enhancing the quality and efficiency of the Borrower's health 
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Support for Implementation of Sector Reforms
 
1.
Human Resource Development and Management
Page  10
Design and implementation of strategies to reduce the shortage of medical 
personnel and proportionately distribute personnel in the country, including:
(a)
reviewing personnel norms and assessing total personnel needs;
 
(b)
computerization of human resource management; 
 
(c)
redeployment of personnel;
 
(d)
recruitment of expatriate physicians; and
 
(e)
support for the medical school, including carrying out a study on the 
cause of the drop out rate and provision of about 20 scholarships.
2.
Management Autonomy for Public Hospitals
 
Introduction of management autonomy in all public hospitals over a three-year 
period through:
(a)
conducting an audit in the six autonomous public hospitals and holding a 
national seminar on management autonomy;
(b)
elaborating a policy framework for management autonomy;
 
(c)
designing and standardizing management accounting systems;
 
(d)
designing and standardizing hospital management training programs; and
 
(e)
introduction of the management accounting system and training programs 
designed under (c) and (d) above in the Project Hospitals.
3.
Improvement of Health Financing Mechanisms
 
Enhancement of the performance and equity of existing mechanisms by improving:
(a)
current payment mechanisms for health care, especially the CAM  through 
designing and implementing strategies aimed at managing health sector revenues, 
enhancing revenue mobilization and  subsidizing the CAM for indigent people through 
the establishment of a social fund; and
(b)
budget processes, including the Borrower's public expenditure program, 
public investment program, technical cooperation program and budget preparation.
4.
Quality Evaluation and Management
 
Development of quality standards and norms for health programs and services and 
monitoring their application through: 
(a)
establishment of a quality committee within MOPH to formulate health care 
quality standards and norms and monitor their implementation;
(b)
design of manuals of norms and standards for each level of the health 
care system and regular updating of the manuals;
(c)
design of a protocol for quality assessment and management based on a 
survey of health facilities and a survey of the population, patients and health care 
providers to be used for evaluation studies at commencement and completion of the 
Project; and
(d)
carrying out of annual routine evaluations of health care delivery in the 
Borrower's Provinces of Bururi, Kayanza, Muramvya, Muyinga and Ngozi. 
5.
National Maintenance Strategy
 
Monitoring of implementation of the national maintenance strategy in Project 
Hospitals.
Page  11
Part B:
Strengthening Service Delivery in the Project Area
 
1.
Strengthening Basic Health Care
 
Restoration of the health services and activities of health centers and 
provincial health units in the Borrower's Provinces of Bururi, Kayanza, Muramvya, 
Muyinga and Ngozi through: 
(a)
carrying out a study to evaluate rehabilitation needs of health centers 
and provincial health units;
(b)
minor rehabilitation and acquisition of equipment and drugs for health 
centers and the provision of operational support to provincial health units; 
(c)
establishment of a communications network in each province between the 
province's hospital and its main health centers; and
(d)
rehabilitation of the Burasira and Maramvya health centers.
 
2.
Rehabilitation of Project Hospitals
 
A.
The carrying out of an evaluation study in all Project Hospitals to redefine 
needs, including personnel and equipment needs, in these hospitals.
B.
Rehabilitation of the Project Hospitals including:
 
(a)
two second-referral hospitals in Bururi and Ngozi; 
 
(b)
five first-referral hospitals in Kayanza, Muramvya, Muyinga, Rumonge and 
Musema; and
(c)
two first-referral hospitals in Ibuye and Matana. 
 
Part C:
Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
 
Carrying out a family planning program through:
(a)
strengthening the CPPF and enhancing the family planning capabilities of 
the provincial health units through training of staff at the central and provincial 
levels and the establishment of a course in epidemiology and statistics;
(b)
improving the quality of maternal and child care and family planning 
services in health facilities throughout the country by: (i) supporting the medical 
school in revising its obstetrics course and training and retraining physicians and 
paramedical personnel; (ii) providing drugs and contraceptives; and (iii) supporting 
qualitative studies; and 
(c)
implementing a family planning information, education and communication 
strategy using a multimedia approach.
Part D:
Information, Education and Communication
 
Improvement of MOPH's ability to coordinate IEC activities, to produce IEC 
materials, and to carry out communication activities both at the central and 
provincial levels, by:
(a)
strengthening the health education unit within MOPH to enable the health 
education unit to help health programs and provincial health bureaus in implementation 
of IEC activities; and
(b)
providing support for IEC activities in two areas:
 
(i)
support for health sector reforms;
 
(ii)
information campaigns to address priority health problems and 
promote 
beneficial health practices.
Page  12
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, contracts for goods 
estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent and contracts for works estimated to 
cost more than $300,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each and contracts for works 
shall be grouped in  bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more.
(b)
Preference for domestic ally manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $0.05 
million equivalent or less in the aggregate and works estimated to cost $300,000 
equivalent or less per contract, and $0.32 million equivalent or less in the aggregate 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $80,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Force Account
 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.8 of the Guidelines and 
costing $30,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Page  13
Small hospital equipment and supplies may be procured from United Nations 
Children Fund in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Schedule
1.
MOPH shall have overall responsibility for project implementation.  All project 
activities shall be managed and implemented by existing units or directorates within 
MOPH, as follows:
(i)
activities related to human resource development and management 
shall be 
managed by the Directorate for Health Services, in 
cooperation with the 
General Directorate for Health for 
training activities;
(ii)
the introduction of management autonomy for public hospitals shall 
be managed 
and supervised by the General Inspectorate for Health in 
cooperation with the 
General Directorate for Health for training 
Page  14
activities;
(iii)
all activities linked to improving health financing mechanisms 
shall be 
managed by the unit in charge of "Planning and 
Coordination of Studies, 
Programs and Budgets";
 
(iv)
activities related to quality assessment and management shall be 
carried out 
by the General Inspectorate for Health, under the 
responsibility of a Quality 
Committee set up for this purpose;
 
(v)
monitoring of the maintenance strategy in the Project Hospitals 
shall be 
carried out by the Directorate for Health Logistics;
 
(vi)
all project activities related to the strengthening of service 
delivery shall 
be managed by the General Directorate for Health, in 
cooperation with the 
Directorate for Health Logistics;
 
(vii)
maternal and child health and family planning activities shall be 
managed by 
the Bureau for Coordination of Family Planning Program; and
 
(viii) information, education and communication activities shall be 
managed by the 
Health Education Unit of MOPH.
 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that MOPH maintains at all times the key staff (being 
the Project Coordinator, an architect, an economist/management specialist, a 
procurement specialist and an accountant) in its Project Coordination Team which shall 
be completely integrated into MOPH.  All key staff shall be engaged in accordance with 
the provisions of Part II of Schedule 3 of this Agreement. The PCT shall report to the 
Adviser in charge of the unit for Planning and Coordination of Studies, Programs and 
Budgets.  The team would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of project 
activities, administrative and financial management, as well as monitoring and 
evaluation.  In particular, the Project Coordination Team shall:
(i)
ensure that annual work programs and budgets are prepared by each 
directorate 
in charge of its respective component, and review their 
implementation progress 
reports;
 
(ii)
procure goods and works and recruit consultants; 
 
(iii)
maintain and consolidate all accounts including the Project 
Account and 
Special Accounts; 
 
(iv)
prepare the necessary withdrawal applications and supporting 
documents;
(v)
make arrangements for the annual audits;
 
(vi)
prepare, as required, semi-annual and annual progress reports;
 
(vii)
put in place a monitoring system for the project's performance 
indicators; and
(viii) organize annual and mid-term reviews of project implementation.
 
The Project Coordination Team shall be headed by a Project Coordinator assisted 
by an economist/management specialist, an architect, an accountant, a procurement 
specialist, the necessary support staff and consultants to be engaged for specific 
tasks.
3.
MOPH shall ensure that each Project Hospital rehabilitated under the Project 
shall, no later than six months after rehabilitation:
(i)
introduce the management accounting system and training programs 
developed 
under Part A.2 (c) and (d) of the Project; and
 
(ii)
assign personnel to it, in accordance with the recommendations of 
the Hospital 
Study.
Page  15
4.
(a)
In April and October of each year, commencing April, 1996, a six-monthly 
progress report shall be prepared by the Project Coordination Team. The six-monthly 
progress reportshall be submitted to the Association within six weeks of the end of 
the six-month period to which it relates.
(b)
Not later than October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 1996, the 
Borrower and the Association shall conduct a joint review of Project implementation, 
including an evaluation of progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and 
the Program, and in particular shall review:
(i)
progress reports, annual work programs and budgets for the next 
year;
(ii)
procurement under the Project;
 
(iii)
the status of studies and training under the Project; and
 
(iv)
the status of Project performance indicators agreed upon with the 
Association.
5.
In preparing its rolling public investment program and its annual budget, the 
Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than October 31 of each year, submit to the Association for its 
review and comments its investments and budgetary allocations proposals for the health 
sector; and 
(b)
take into account comments of the Association in finalizing the draft 
budget before it is sent to the Borrower's Council of Ministers for approval. 
6.
(a)
By not later than June 30, 1998, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly 
with the Association, a mid-term review (for the purposes of this Section, the 
"Mid-term Review") of the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. 
The review shall include:
(i)
the extent to which key objectives are being achieved;
 
(ii)
the use of Project performance indicators;
 
(iii)
any changes in Project focus that may need to be introduced;
 
(iv)
the quality of services delivered at health facilities;
 
(v)
counterpart funding;
 
(vi)
the staffing and performance of the Project Coordination Team;
 
(vii)
progress achieved in: (a) ensuring that proceeds from the CAM and 
user-fees 
are managed transparently by the health sector; (b) 
improving availability and 
affordability of drugs; (c) increasing 
the price of the CAM and user fees in 
accordance with recommendations 
made; (d) ensuring that the CAM gives access 
to health services 
provided by the private non-profit sector; and (e) setting 
up mechanisms 
to provide for partial or total exemption from the CAM for 
indigent people; and
(viii) an assessment of the performance of the incentive system designed 
to attract 
paramedics to work in zones presenting a safety hazard. 
 
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, at least 45 days prior to 
the Mid-term Review a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
describing the status of the items listed in paragraph (a) of this Section and of the 
implementation of the Project and the Program generally.
(c)
Based on the Mid-term Review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an 
action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the 
Page  16
Project and the Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
7.
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1995, adopt a Project 
Implementation Manual acceptable to the Association.  
8.
The Borrower shall utilize the Implementation Manual in a manner which would 
assist in the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend the Implementation 
Manual so as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Page  17
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible  expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
