                                  Republic of Niger

          Second Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit II (PEAC II)

                          Project Information Document


Project Name:                Second Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit

Country Name:                Republic of Niger

Region:                      Africa

Project ID:                  P069570

Implementing Agency:         Ministry of Finance and Economy
                             BP 862
                             Phone: (227) 72 23 74
                             Niamey, Niger

Initial PID:                 August 10, 2003

Appraisal Date:              August 11, 2003

Project Board Date:          October 23, 2003

Background

        Since 2000, the Nigerien civilian government elected in December 1999 has
implemented    a program of economic stabilization and liberalization designed to
encourage higher economic growth and to reduce poverty. The program, which was
approved by the National Assembly in April 2000 and supported by two adjustment
credits from the International Development Association (IDA) and by the PRGF
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), aimed at reforming the public
finances and addressing urgent issues, including full and timely payment of salaries, and
settlement of outstanding domestic arrears Cross debts with a number of public
enterprises were eliminated and several key enterprises were privatized.      A revised
Budget Law was enacted, and the Government took measures to improve fiscal discipline
and accountability, such as the auditing of government accounts by the state's external
auditor, the Chamber of Accounts In December 2000, Niger reached the Decision Point
under the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and the Boards of
IDA and the IMF agreed to support a comprehensive debt reduction package for Niger. In
2002, the Nigerien authorities, in conjunction with all stakeholders, prepared a full
participatory Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which was considered by the
Boards of IDA and the IMF as a credible framework for poverty reduction in Niger. A
new Country Assistance Strategy consistent with Niger's PRSP was discussed by the

                                             2


Board in January 2003. The fifth review of the PRGF program was completed in July
2003. Niger is expected to reach the completion point under the HIPC Initiative late early
2004.

Objectives

       The Government's medium-term objective is to manage the economy more
effectively and achieve strong and sustained growth in order to reduce significantly
widespread poverty over the long run.         The proposed credit, the Second Public
Expenditure Adjustment Credit II (PEACII) aims to help Niger continue its reform
program, focusing on key areas, including budget management, social sector reforms and
private-sector environment. Furthermore, this credit would lay the foundation for a
progressive shift of the Bank's assistance towards consolidated programmatic lending. In
line with the poverty reduction strategy articulated in the recent Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), PEAC II would address poverty reduction objectives in two important
ways. First, at the general level, the Credit directly contributes to the maintenance of a
stable macroeconomic framework conducive to economic growth by helping to bridge
the financing gap associated with implementation of the PRSP. Second, each component
of the Credit will have a specific and direct impact on poverty. Reforming budget
management will ensure that the Government's budget priorities are fully in line with the
PRSP priorities and faithfully reflected in actual cash releases to the line ministries.
Improving basic service delivery will help meet the needs of the poor and other
vulnerable groups. Improving the environment for private sector will be conducive to
private-sector-led growth and thereby create income-earning opportunities for the poor.

Description

       The proposed credit, a two-tranche operation in the amount of US$65 million,
would be the sixth adjustment credit to Niger since 1984. The Credit has three major
components:     (i) reform of budget management; (ii) improvement of public service
delivery; and (iii) improvement of the environment for private-sector growth. To reform
the budget management, the proposed credit will support measures to improve budget
preparation, execution, cash management system as well as auditing mechanisms. The
objective is to help the Government of Niger design a realistic budget and increase the
predictability, accountability, and transparency in public spending. To improve public
service delivery, PEAC II will support measures to improve the predictability of cash
release to priority ministries and specific measures in the education and health sectors,
including the "volunteer" teacher program and the contractual health worker program. To
improve the environment for private-sector led growth, the Credit will support the
ongoing privatization program, in particular the conclusion of the SONIDEP transaction.
It will also support the setting of a competitive regulatory framework, through the
establishment of the multi-sectoral regulatory agency (MRA).

                                                      3


Environmental Aspects

          The recommended environmental assessment category is C.                The proposed
operation does not have a direct environmental impact.

Benefits and Risks

          The      main  benefits  of   PEAC        II are : (i) macroeconomic   and   financial
stability;(ii) improved

budgeting and public expenditure management and basic service delivery; (iii) improved the

environment conducive to private-sector development; and (iv) higher economic growth. Each of
these benefits is expected to have a significant and long lasting impact on poverty
reduction.

          Four main risks could influence the expected outcomes of the proposed credit: (i)
domestic political unrest and/or external factors, including shortfall in donor support, adverse
climatic conditions, and social and political upheavals in neighboring countries; (ii) weak
institutional, managerial and administrative capacity; (iii) slippages in key reforms; and (iv)
growth and macroeconomic scenarios may not materialize. These risks have been mitigated by
the strength of the government's ownership and commitment to implement the proposed
measures, by an active policy dialogue between the Bank and the government, and by donor's
efforts to provide technical assistance to improve capacity-building.


Contact Point :           Infoshop
                          The World Bank
                          1818 H Street N.W.
                          Washington D.C. 20433
                          Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
                          Fax No.: (202) 522-1500

                          Task Team Leader
                          Emmanuel Pinto Moreira
                          The World Bank
                          1818 H Street N.W.
                          Washington, DC 20433
                          Telephone (202) 458-1834
                          Fax: (202) 473-8466



Maude Jean-Baptiste
P:\!UNITS\AFTP3\PINTO\NIGER\PID\PID FINAL jan 22 04.doc
January 29, 2004 5:30 PM

