                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 31860

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-38270 TF-53064)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                        FOR A

                   SECOND PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                      June 29, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = CFA Francs
                                        US$ = CFAF 497

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1     -   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARM     :     Authorité de Régulation Multi-Sectorielle (Multi-Sectoral RegulatoryAgency)
COGES   :     Comité de Gestion des Etablissements Scolaires (School Management Committee)
DAFs    :     Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financières (Financial and Administrative Affairs
              Directorate)
DEPs    :     Studies and Programs Directorate
DGB     :     Direction Générale du Budget (Budget Directorate)
DGF     :     Administrative and Financial Affairs Directorate
EPA     :     Etablissements Publics à Caractère Administratif (Administrative Public Enterprises
GNDPP   :     Association of National Professionals
HIPC    :     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IMF     :     International Monetary Fund
MDGs    :     Millennium Development Goals
MEF     :     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF    :     Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
OED     :     Operations Evaluation Department
PEAC    :     Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
PEMFAR  :     Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PERCG   :     Public Expenditure Management Credit and Grant
PHRD    :     Japan Policy and Human Resource Development
PREM    :     Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PSOP    :     Paiements sans ordonnancement préalable (Payment without preceding
              Payment Order
SONIDEP :     Société Nigérienne de Distribution de Produits Pétroliers (The Petroleum Distribution
Firm)
TA      :     Technical Assistance
TOR     :     Terms of Reference
WAEMU   :     West Africa Economic and Monetary Union


                            Vice President:      Gobind Nankani
                         Country Director:       Madani M. Tall
                          Sector Manager:        Cadman A. Mills
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Emmanuel Pinto Moreira

                                            NIGER
                              NE - PEAC II - (Pub.Exp.Adj.Cr.)


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                15
6. Sustainability                                                                    16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   19
9. Partner Comments                                                                  21
10. Additional Information                                                           22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                35
Annex 8. Distribution by Sector Public Expenditures (2000-2005) in FCFA million      36
Annex 9. Program-Budgeting: Technical Issues                                         40

Project ID: P069570                                                  Project Name: NE - PEAC II - (Pub.Exp.Adj.Cr.)
Team Leader: Emmanuel Pinto Moreira                                  TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: NE - PEAC II - (Pub.Exp.Adj.Cr.)                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-38270; TF-53064
   Country/Department: NIGER                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (40%); Health (20%); General
                            education sector (20%); Oil and gas (15%); Water supply (5%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (S); Health system performance (S);
                            Education for all (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/02/2003                                     Effective: 10/31/2003                12/04/2003
     Appraisal: 08/08/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 10/23/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Government of Niger/The Government of Niger
                      Other Partners:      African Development Bank, European Union

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Madani Tall                                    Antoinette Sayeh
Sector Manager:                 Cadman A. Mills                                Cadman A. Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Emmanuel Pinto Moreira                         Emmanuel Pinto Moreira
ICR Primary Author:             Xavier de la Renaudiere


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Economic context. For Niger the nineties were a very difficult decade characterized by political

instability, social unrest, recurrent droughts, slow growth and growing poverty. Poor public finance
management and a sharp drop in external financing led to accumulation of large external and domestic
arrears. Arrears on civil service salaries (in excess of six months) were in turn a major factor behind
political and social tensions.

3.1.2. Since January 2000, a democratically elected government took decisive action to restore growth
and financial stability and reactivate structural reforms. This led to a three-year macroeconomic program
supported by an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility and two Bank-financed adjustment credits ­ a
Public Finance Recovery Credit in September 2000 and a first Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit in
November 2001. Government performance under the two credits was generally satisfactory (see Box 1
below). Economic growth was positive in 2001 and 2002. Inflation declined from 4.7% in December 2000
to 2.7% in December 2002. Government revenue rose from 8.6% of GDP in 2000 to 10.6% in 2002 and
current expenditures were stabilized around 11% of GDP.

3.1.3. Despite these positive results, Niger remains a very poor country and its social indicators are
among the lowest in the world. Nearly two thirds of the population lives below the poverty line. The 2004
UNDP Human Development Index ranked Niger 176th out of a total of 177 countries. The new government
understood the need to give the highest priority to the fight against poverty. A full Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) was completed in January 2002. The government prepared and adopted two
progress reports, and two joint Bank/Fund assessments concluded that: (i) the PRSP provided a credible
framework for Bank and Fund assistance and (ii) Niger's progress in implementing the conditions for
governance and social sector reforms was satisfactory. In this context, the Bank helped the government
prepare a second Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC 2), which was approved by the Executive
Directors in October 2003.

                  Box 1: Outcome of Recent Adjustment Credits (ICRs and OED Reviews)


   · The Public Finance Recovery Credit (PFRC) was approved in September 2000. Its main objective was to support
      the stabilization and fiscal management reform program of the new government. Government performance and
      outcome were rated satisfactory in the ICR and the PPAR. Macro-economic, revenue mobilization and most of the
      fiscal management targets were met, but cash management continued to be a major problem. Implementation of
      structural reforms was slower than expected. A civil service retirement reform was launched. Privatization
      progressed in the telecommunications and water supply sectors.
   · The First Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC 1) was approved in October 2001. Its main objectives were
      to deepen the budget reform program, to strengthen the link between public expenditure allocations and poverty
      reduction and to expand and improve basic social services. Government performance was rated satisfactory in the
      ICR and by OED, but the OED review rated the outcome moderately satisfactory. The stability of the macro-
      economic framework was maintained in 2001-02 and the 2002 budget generally reflected the PRSP priorities. The
      government adopted a new budget nomenclature and chart of accounts, a new organic budget decree and a new
      procurement code. The volunteer teacher program was expanded. Progress in reforming and restructuring the
      public enterprise sector was marginal and the different committees set up by the government to monitor progress
      were not effective.



3.1.4. Description of objectives. PEAC 2 is a two-tranche public expenditure adjustment credit which
forms part of a multi-phase medium- and long-term program of public finance management and structural
reforms. The goal of the overall program is to modernize the budget planning and execution process and the
financial management systems in order to transform them into effective instruments of economic growth,
poverty reduction and social sector development along the lines of the PRSP. PEAC 2 itself had four main




                                                       - 2 -

objectives: (i) to support continued improvement in the country's economic performance through sound
macro-economic and public finance policies; (ii) to strengthen budget planning and public expenditure
management; (iii) to improve delivery of basic services in key social sectors (health and education); and (iv)
to promote an environment conducive to private sector development.

3.1.5. Assessment of objectives. The program was fully justified by the progress already achieved in
2001-02 towards sound macro-economic and fiscal policies and the need to deepen the reform process and
improve the programming and execution of public expenditures in key economic and social sectors. The
credit's objectives were fully consistent with the January 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which
emphasized: (a) the need for a macro-economic framework supporting economic growth and promoting
financial stability; (b) the development of productive sectors, especially in rural areas, and (c) improved
access of the poor to quality social services. The goal of the CAS was also: (i) to establish a framework for
unifying donor programs under Nigerien leadership, and (ii) to move gradually towards consolidated
programmatic support. Both the CAS and the PEAC 2 Program Document assumed that the PRSP
provided an appropriate framework for improving donor coordination and promoting a gradual shift to
budget support and programmatic lending.

3.1.6. The common objectives of the CAS, PEAC 2 and the country's long-term public finance reform
program are of high-priority and will continue to dominate government programs and Bank policy lending
operations in Niger for a number of years. A strong private sector-led growth strategy is essential to
accelerate economic growth and reduce poverty in a country with a population growth rate above 3%.
Adequate programming of future budgets, increased allocations for priority sectors and effective
coordination of current and investment expenditures are critical to optimize the use of scarce resources.
Major improvements in budget preparation, execution and monitoring procedures are key to increasing the
efficiency of social sector services. Past government efforts focused on controlling the growth of public
expenditures, reducing deficits and meeting the macro-economic and fiscal management targets of Bank/
IMF-financed adjustment programs. Future programs should combine the continuation of these efforts with
measures aimed at introducing a more strategic approach to budget programming and more transparent
financial management systems to improve the structure of public expenditures and the delivery of basic
services.

3.1.7. These objectives are very broad and their assessment should be combined with the discussion of the
more specific policy and operational instruments envisaged in the program and described in Section 3.3
below (Original components).

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. The program's objectives were not revised during execution. Preparation of the PEMFAR report in
2003-04 enabled the government and the Bank to undertake a more comprehensive assessment of the
country's public finance and financial management performance and propose a more detailed medium- and
long-term reform program that has been discussed with, and endorsed by, the main stakeholders (public
agencies, private sector, civil society) and the donor community. The findings and recommendations of the
report will influence the design of future government and donor programs.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. Implementation of the credit's objectives was based on a wide range of public finance management
and other reform measures, including: (i) modernization of the budget preparation process; (ii) improved
budget execution and cash management procedures; (iii) improved management of domestic debt; (iv)



                                                     - 3 -

improved external controls; (v) procurement reform; (vi) progress towards privatization of public
enterprises (mainly SONIDEP); and (vii) special efforts to expand and improve basic health and education
services. However, the focus of the program was on four main components: (i) budget preparation, (ii)
budget execution and cash management, (iii) private sector development, and (iv) social sector reform.

3.3.2. Budget preparation. Improvements in budget preparation involved: (i) the development of
alternative macro-economic and revenue scenarios to prepare more realistic budget proposals; (ii) improved
collaboration between units responsible for preparing current and investment budgets, a first step towards
full integration of the budget management process; (iii) identification of core-activities that need special
protection in budget execution; (iv) development of a multi-year approach to government budgeting,
including preparation of global multi-sectoral and sector-specific MTEFs; and (v) gradual introduction of
program-budgeting starting with basic education, health and rural development.

3.3.3.    Most of these measures aimed at increasing the role of line ministries in analyzing alternative use
of resources and making the most appropriate budget choices, in the context of sensible inter-sectoral
allocations based on realistic projections of domestic revenue and donor financing. In the past most of the
budget decisions, including inter- and intra-sectoral budget allocations, were made by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance without adequate consultation with line ministries. In addition, since initial budget
allocations were often based on unrealistic projections of domestic and external resources, voted budgets
could not be executed as planned. Consequently, the most important budget choices were not made when
the budget law was prepared and approved but during budget execution. These final budget choices were
decided on an ad hoc basis and were not always in line with the country's strategic priorities.

3.3.4.    Budget execution. Most of the proposed improvements in budget execution were based on: (a)
expanding the central computerized financial management information system (FMIS) to priority sector
ministries and local treasury offices; and (b) improving cash management to prevent creation of arrears and
better protect critical expenditures in case of revenue shortfall.

3.3.5.    MEF and other ministries have developed computerized information systems covering their main
activities. However, the instruments are not uniform and not all the needs are satisfied. Inadequate linkages
between applications and lack of interface development interrupt the flow of data and lengthen the time
required to centralize information. Over the past few years, the government has begun to develop an
integrated financial management information system that will provide in real time all the data required to
implement and monitor budget execution. Significant progress had already been achieved before the
beginning of PEAC 2 and the government felt that the most important next step was to extend the system to
line ministries. Integration of local treasury offices also was of some importance in support of recent
government plans to deconcentrate and decentralize the management of basic services.

3.3.6.    As mentioned in paragraph 3.3.3, many important decisions are made during budget execution:
budget regulation (quarterly releases of budget lines) and plans de trésorerie (monthly and weekly cash
management plans) have de facto become the most powerful budget planning and execution instruments.
These instruments have enabled the government to control the growth of expenditures and meet most of its
fiscal management objectives, but they have also created major distortions in the structure of public
expenditures, often at the expense of activities viewed as critical for poverty reduction and social sector
development. PEAC 2 therefore included a major reform of existing cash rationing systems. The new
system would aim at bringing quarterly releases of budget lines in line with projected revenue while
ensuring adequate funding for core poverty reduction expenditures identified at the budget preparation
stage. Implementation would be supervised by an Inter-Ministerial Committee involving sectoral ministries
that play a major role in implementing the country's poverty reduction strategy.


                                                     - 4 -

3.3.7.    Private sector development. Most of the previous adjustment programs included measures aimed
at restructuring and privatizing key public enterprises and creating an environment conducive to private
sector development. Significant progress had been already made in the water supply and
telecommunications sector, but two major public enterprises -- the power company (NIGELEC) and the
petroleum importation and distribution company (SONIDEP) -- had not been privatized. Under the PEAC
2 program, the government was expected to achieve progress towards privatization of SONIDEP, i.e.,
complete the preparation of satisfactory bidding documents for the sale of shares in the company, and send
them to all the bidders.

3.3.8.    Before PEAC 2, the government had created a multi-sectoral regulatory agency (Autorité de
Régulation Multisectorielle or ARM), which would regulate the large utility markets (water, power,
telecommunications and distribution of petroleum products). However, the agency was not operational.
Under PEAC 2, the government would appoint key technical staff and adopt a business plan for ARM, that
would clarify the responsibilities of the agency's management. One of the first tasks of the agency would be
to study the impact of past privatization measures on the performance of the water, telecommunications
and road construction sectors.

3.3.9.     Basic health and education services. The country's extremely low social indicators justify a
special effort to expand and improve basic health and education services, one of the main priorities of the
PRSP.

3.3.10. Health measures envisaged in PEAC 2 included the preparation and adoption of a health sector
development plan, supported by a strategy to ensure adequate and sustainable financing of the sector
(adequate budget appropriations, mobilization of donor funds, and cost recovery mechanisms that do not
penalize poor households). PEAC 2 also envisaged the development of a strategy for recruiting, training
and deployment of staff in the field, and direct funding of health districts on a pilot basis (based on
performance contracts). Concentration of qualified health professionals in urban areas was a major
constraint and improvements in the distribution of health professionals should also be accompanied by an
effort to decentralize the management of regional and local services.

3.3.11. In the education sector, the government was expected to provide adequate budget appropriations,
particularly for basic education, to increase the share of HIPC funds earmarked for primary education, to
continue to recruit teachers on contracts (enseignants contractuels), and to delegate authority and
resources to school management committees (COGES). The most urgent measure was the recruitment of
contractuels, which was essential to reduce unit costs (in the education sector, the cost of contractuels is
about 50% lower than salaries and benefits of civil servants) and increase school enrollment rates.

3.3.12. The choice of the main components was in line with the key development objectives of PEAC 2
and the CAS. A number of government officials suggested that the program was too ambitious and
included too many reforms that could not possibly be implemented in less than two years. It is true that the
list of measures (see Matrix in Annex 1) is impressive but the Bank argues that the success of a public
finance management reform depends on a variety of mutually-reinforcing activities which need to be
addressed concomitantly. In addition PEAC 2 is only one of the phases of a multi-phase process, that will
probably take many years, perhaps a decade. Experience in both developing and developed countries shows
that the full development of a sound program-budgeting system combined with an effective integrated
financial management information system require radical changes in budget planning and execution
practices that take many years before producing all the expected benefits. In other words, it was important
to initiate most of the reforms proposed in PEAC 2, but the Bank did not expect all the reforms listed in the


                                                    - 5 -

Program Document to be fully completed in less than two years. However, the Bank recognizes that
implementation of the reform program required a major capacity-building effort which was envisaged
during program preparation but perhaps not given enough priority both at the design and implementation
stage.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. The structure of the program and the choice of components were not revised during credit
execution.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1.   Satisfactory. PEAC 2 was not reviewed by a QAG panel. PEAC 2 objectives and components
were sound and included all the measures required to improve the budget planning and execution
performance of the government and support implementation of critical poverty reduction objectives. It is
true that the design of PEAC 2 was affected by the decision made in 2000-01 to delay preparation of a
comprehensive public expenditure review combined with the analysis of the country's financial
management systems. In other words, both PEAC 1 and PEAC 2 were prepared before this more complete
diagnosis was available. However, the PEAC 2 program included most of the reforms which were
eventually incorporated in the 2004 PEMFAR report. As mentioned in paragraph 3.3.11, preparation and
implementation of PEAC 2 should probably have been accompanied by a more effective capacity-building
program involving the main institutions participating in public finance management reforms.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1. Substantial progress has been achieved towards implementation of the main objectives of the
PEAC 2 program. The first tranche (SDR 29 million) was disbursed when the credit became effective in
December 2003. The second tranche (SDR 18.4 million) was released in July 2004. Action on virtually all
the components of the reform program was initiated during the planned implementation period, but a
number of programmed measures could not be completed before the end of 2004. Full implementation is
now scheduled for 2005-06 (See Annex 1 ­ Log Frame Matrix).

4.1.2. On balance, the outcome of the program can be considered fully satisfactory. Table 1 below
summarizes the results obtained in the most critical areas. A more detailed review of outputs and outcomes
is provided in the following paragraphs.




                                                    - 6 -

                                  Table 1: Summary of PEAC 2 Outcomes


    Sectors         Rating of
                    Outcome                                                 Comments

 Macro-economic                    Economic growth accelerated in 2003. In 2004, despite severe negative exogenous factors
 and fiscal                        (drought and locust attacks),Niger's macro-economic and public finance performance was
 performance      S (Satisfactory) satisfactory. Non-agricultural output continued to grow and budget and external current
                                   account deficits were reduced.

 Budget                            Education and health ministries prepared program-budgets. Budget choices in education were

 preparation      S (Satisfactory) influenced by these strategic discussions. Four rural development ministries are now focusing
                                   their efforts on developing a common strategy and operational programs.
 Budget              S minus       Government mobilized funds to create a computer room accessible to line ministries. Three
 execution &        (Moderately    local treasury offices have been connected to FMIS.
 cash               satisfactory)  Government implemented cash management reform but extreme shortage of domestic &
 management                        external funding created distortions that affected performance of key sectors.
 Private sector          U         Conditions were met (bidding documents sent to bidders) but less than 7 percent of SONIDEP
 development      (Unsatisfactory) shares were bought by private sector.

 Education          HS (Highly     Thanks to a dramatic reduction in unit costs, the number of teachers increased rapidly and
                    satisfactory)  primary school enrollment increased from 30% (end 1990s) to 45% (2002) & 50% (2003).
                     S minus       The construction of new facilities increased rates of access but only modest results were
 Health             (Moderately    obtained in terms of recruitment of contractuels to remedy shortage of staff outside urban
                    satisfactory)  areas.


a) Macro-economic and fiscal performance.

4.1.3. Niger's macro-economic performance, which had improved substantially in 2001-02, continued to
improve in 2003. Real GDP growth went up from 3% in 2002 to 5.3% in 2003, reflecting good weather
conditions and sound macroeconomic policies that helped restore investor confidence and mobilize donor
support. In 2004, the combination of a severe drought and locust attacks caused a 12% decline in
agricultural output and reduced overall GDP growth to a meager 0.9%, thus showing the vulnerability of
Niger's economy to climatic changes. Perhaps more significant, however, is the fact that non-agricultural
output continued to grow from 3.2% in 2002 to 3.9% in 2003 and 4.3% in 2004.

4.1.4. Increased agricultural output, prudent monetary and fiscal policies led to a continued decline in
inflation from 0.6% at end 2002 to a negative 1.5% at end-2003. In 2004, the sharp decline in agricultural
production led to significant consumer price increases (12-month end of year inflation of 3.7%). The
external current account deficit declined slightly from 7.8% of GDP in 2002 to 7.6% in 2003 and 7.3% in
2004.

4.1.5. Despite an adverse economic environment during the last year of the PEAC 2 program, the
government was able to further improve its public finance performance. Government revenue went up from
9.9% of GDP in 2003 to 10.5% in 2004. Current expenditures went down from 9.9% to 9.7% in 2004 and
the basic budget deficit (government revenue excluding grants, minus public expenditures excluding
foreign-financed investment) declined from 2% of GDP in 2003 to 1.1% in 2004. On balance, the overall
macro-economic and fiscal performance of Niger under PEAC 2 should be viewed as fully satisfactory.

4.1.6. A major achievement of the 2003-04 period also was finalizing the PEMFAR report, that reviewed
a number of macro-economic and sectoral issues linked with the structure of public expenditures and
provided a comprehensive analysis of Niger's financial management issues (see Box 2). The government
also took a number of specific measures aimed at modernizing the budget management process, which are
discussed in the following paragraphs.




                                                          - 7 -

                                        Box 2: The PEMFAR Report
                  A Multi-Donor Approach to Public Finance Reform and Budget Support


 The government and the Bank had already organized public expenditure reviews in the context of earlier
 adjustment programs. In 2003, the new government decided to resume these reviews, to expand the
 diagnosis to public finance and other financial management issues, and, more importantly, to include other
 donors in the process. Most of the field work was performed in 2003 and the report was finalized in 2004.
 The report was prepared by Bank staff and consultants in close cooperation with: (i) a government team
 coordinated by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and (ii) major donors, notably the European Union
 which played a critical role in the design of specific aspects of the proposed reform program. Based on a
 CFAA review, the report provided the first comprehensive diagnosis of Niger's financial management
 systems.
 The preliminary conclusions and recommendations of the report were discussed in a workshop in May
 2004 that involved representatives of relevant government agencies, the private sector, the civil society and
 major donors. The workshop endorsed a matrix of action that served as a basis for the design of eight
 specific measures to be implemented in 2005. The report was approved by the government in December
 2004 and is now recognized by the government, the Bank and other donors as the agreed framework for
 future government actions and donor interventions in public expenditure and financial management. This
 agreement is critical to harmonize donor strategies and discipline a process characterized by the
 multiplicity of often poorly coordinated government and donor initiatives.


b) Budget preparation

4.1.7. Timing and procedures. A September 2003 arrêté gives more time to line ministries to prepare
budget proposals including alternative scenarios based on different assumptions concerning economic
growth, government revenue and donor financing.

        -    In 2004, the circulaire budgétaire which initiates the budget preparation process was
             circulated to line ministries two months earlier than in previous years. However, the document
             did not include detailed macroeconomic projections. This made it difficult for line ministries to
             define realistic scenarios as a basis for their budget proposals.
        -    Key sector ministries felt free to design their own scenarios, pending circulation of the
             lettre-plafond (three months later in 2004) fixing ceilings for public expenditures in each
             ministry. Most of the scenarios used by line ministries were based on their own interpretation
             of the PRSP objectives.

4.1.8.    Program budgets. Two key ministries (Basic Education and Health) prepared medium-term
expenditure frameworks (MTEFs) and program budgets in 2003 and 2004. In 2003, the government
attempted to prepare a program-budget for the rural development sector, but the data and basic analysis
necessary to produce a coherent program were not available. A rural development strategy common to the
four line ministries sharing the management of the sector (Agriculture, Animal Resources,
Water/Environment/Fight against Desertification, and Community Development) was adopted in 2003 and
serves as a basis for preparing detailed operational programs with cost estimates and cost-benefit analyses.
Preparation of a new program-budget for the sector is now scheduled for 2006. The road sector will
prepare its first program-budget in 2007.

4.1.9.   With help from international experts, technical teams have learned to develop sectoral MTEFs and
program-budgets but their involvement in the discussion of key budget choices remains limited. In the Basic




                                                       - 8 -

Education sector, however, the strategic thinking that accompanied preparation of program-budgets
influenced the ministry's budget proposals. Both the design of the schools and the recruitment of teachers
on contracts were aimed at reducing unit costs in order to reconcile the need for a major expansion of
primary education services with the resource constraints that dominate Niger's public financial
management.

4.1.10.    To conclude on budget preparation, significant progress has been achieved and both the
performance of the government and the outcome can be considered satisfactory. In Niger, as in many other
countries that are just beginning to modernize their budget planning procedures, it will take many years of
strategic thinking and budget-programming exercises to develop an effective instrument that will enable line
ministries to present realistic scenarios and credible programs reflecting the views of technicians,
decision-makers, political institutions, users and international financiers. A process has been launched and
should be continued but it would be unrealistic to expect significant results before a long period of
continued learning and experimentation. Annex 9 discusses a number of technical, institutional, incentive
and other issues that need to be addressed to better integrate modern budget programming techniques into
the national budget preparation and approval process.

c) Budget execution (Information systems and cash management)

4.1.11. Financial management information system. The computerization of financial management
operations is making (slow) progress.

        -    The chain of expenditure has been computerized and the Treasury is able to monitor budget
             commitments (ordonnancements and liquidations) carried out by the Direction Générale du
             Budget (DGB) and payments ready for execution. However, data on actual payments are not
             accessible to the DGB, which is unable to monitor implementation of its payment orders. This
             link (liaison retour) between the Treasury and the Budget Directorate is expected to be
             available by the end of 2005. It is essential for effective monitoring of budget execution and for
             preventing and monitoring the creation of new arrears.
        -    Extending the FMIS system to sectoral ministries depends on the creation within the Ministry
             of Economy and Finance of a computer room accessible to credit managers. Mobilization of
             donor financing (the African Development Bank) and project implementation took longer than
             expected. However, the new computer room is likely to be available by mid-2005.
        -    The next step will be to connect sectoral ministries directly to the financial management
             information system. The timing of this measure will depend on the results of the computer
             room experience and the mobilization of additional funds for equipment and training. If
             successful, the connection of sectoral ministries could have a major impact on the efficiency
             and transparency of budget execution procedures. It would increase the budget execution role
             of sectoral ministries, would pave the way for gradual delegation of ordonnancement to these
             ministries, and would represent a major first step towards simplification of the chain of
             expenditure. It would also increase the quality and efficiency of ex ante controls by financial
             controllers, who will have access to the computer room and will eventually be connected
             directly to the system.
        -    The ongoing decentralization policy requires the extension of the computerized information
             system to local Treasury offices (paieries). At this stage only three paieries have been
             connected. The equipment necessary for the five other paieries is available but there is an
             acute shortage of local IT specialists who are also familiar with financial management
             techniques. Nevertheless, the government hopes to complete the computerization of all paieries
             by the end of 2005.


                                                     - 9 -

4.1.12. Cash management. Improving cash management practices is critical to prevent the creation of new
arrears and protect high-priority expenditures, notably maintenance and operating costs (salaries of
contractuels, school supplies, drugs and vaccines, etc.) that are essential to improve the performance of key
poverty-reduction sectors. In 2003, the government designed a new cash management plan for 2004 in
cooperation with the Bank. A severe shortage of domestic revenue and budget support made budget
execution particularly difficult during the first three quarters of 2004. The government struggled to
implement the agreed cash management plan and was able to protect a number of high-priority
expenditures ­ not only civil service salaries but also key operating costs, including some health and rural
development activities ­ but other high-priority expenditures could not be protected effectively.
Fortunately, a significant increase in domestic revenue and budget support during the fourth quarter helped
redress the situation.

4.1.13. Increased spending by the end of the year is not always sufficient to meet the needs of priority
sectors. A good example is road maintenance. Spending for road maintenance increased from FCFA 1-2.7
billion during previous years to FCFA 4 billion in 2004 but most of the funds allocated to road
maintenance must be used during the dry season, i.e., before June. In 2004, payments to CAFER were
executed according to the following schedule: 18% during the first quarter, 24% during the second, 33%
during the third and 25% during the fourth. A better analysis of the seasonality of critical activities
combined with issuance of Treasury bills and mobilization of well-timed budget support would help the
government prepare and implement quarterly and monthly cash management plans more compatible with
the operational requirements of public services. Like most of the other WAEMU countries, the Niger
government has begun to issue Treasury bills. It will be most interesting to evaluate the results of this
experience. In the case of Niger, Treasury bill should be used to meet short-term cash management needs,
not as a permanent instrument to finance budget deficits.

4.1.14. According to the initial PEAC 2 program, line ministries were expected to be associated with the
design of cash management plans through participation in periodic meetings of an inter-ministerial
committee specially created for that purpose. The committee does not meet. Budget regulation is run by the
DGB and monthly and weekly plans de trésorerie are managed by a committee including only
representatives of MEF and the Treasury. The principal function of monthly and weekly cash management
plans is to determine which commitments will actually be paid by the Treasury during the week or the
month. Therefore the protection of high-priority expenditures mainly depends on the management of
quarterly regulation plans, that release an appropriate percentage of budget allocations taking into account
projections of available resources (domestic and foreign). Direct and active participation of key line
ministries in the discussion of quarterly regulation plans would be most useful, if practicable. For 2005, the
government has decided to associate key ministries to the preparation of annual cash management plans
based on budget allocations. These annual plans will enable the government to take into account the
"seasonality" of public expenditures but may not be sufficient to manage the consequences of another
exceptionally severe resource shortfall.

4.1.15. For line ministries, the best way to influence budget allocations and cash management plans is to
establish at the earliest possible stage a short list of key activities and expenditures -- mainly maintenance
and operating costs -- that: (i) are critical for an effective operation of sector institutions, (ii) play a major
role in the fight against poverty, and (iii) should be protected in case of revenue shortfalls. The 2004 cash
management plan was prepared on that basis. For key ministries these choices should also be discussed
when they develop a strategic vision of their priorities, i.e., when preparing sector strategies, multi-year
expenditure frameworks and program-budgets.




                                                      - 10 -

4.1.16. A factor limiting the effectiveness of cash management plans is the use of exceptional procedures,
notably payments that are decided and executed outside the regular commitment process. These paiements
sans ordonnancement préalable or PSOPs are not reviewed by financial controllers and are not regulated
and rationed by budget regulation and cash management plans. In 2003, special circumstances ­ approval
of the budget law was delayed until April ­ led the government to use PSOPs for a few months as a
substitute for regular commitment and payment procedures. The use of PSOPs then declined slightly from
FCFA 58 billion in 2003 to a still high 51 billion in 2004. The government argues that its use of PSOPs is
in line with WAEMU guidelines. In 2004, PSOPs financed debt service (FCFA 15 billion), tax refunds for
tax-exempt activities (FCFA 20 billion), operating costs (FCFA 5 billion) and the President's Special
Program, which uses HIPC funds to organize poverty reduction activities. For the future, the government
plans to use PSOPs prudently, in accordance with current rules and procedures, and will settle outstanding
PSOP payments during the fiscal year.

4.1.17. To conclude on information systems, progress has been slower than planned. With respect to cash
management, only modest results have been obtained. Since the main factor is the shortage of donor funds
during the first six to nine months of the fiscal year, the government cannot really be blamed for that result
but the outcome is only moderately satisfactory.

4.1.18. For the future, the government and the donor community place all their hopes on the development
of a modern computerized information system. However, the benefits of the system will be limited if it is
not used systematically to monitor government performance and the impact of cash management on vital
activities. The PEAC 2 program assumed that priority sectors would produce quarterly reports on
execution of their budgets. So far line ministries did not have the capacity to produce these reports, which,
however, are essential to identify on time substantial distortions in the structure of public expenditures at
the expense of social sector and other poverty-reduction expenditures.

e) Other budget management issues

4.1.19. Procurement. In 2002, an IDF-financed study helped define a procurement reform program based
on comments and suggestions made by the World Bank and WAEMU member countries. The program
envisaged: (i) delegation of all decisions concerning bidding procedures and awards to spending ministries
through ministerial procurement evaluation committees (Commissions Ministérielles d'Evaluation); (ii)
abolition of the Central Procurement Committee (Commission Centrale des Marchés) which so far
reviewed decisions made by ministerial committees for large contracts; (iii) creation of a new Procurement
Regulation Authority (Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics, or ARMP); and (iv) publication in
official bulletins of bidding procedures and awards to improve the transparency of the bidding process. The
main functions of ARMP would be to: (i) to help define public sector procurement policies and update
related rules and procedures; (ii) build capacity of the main actors, including staff of ministerial
procurement committees; (iii) handle claims; (iv) organize audits; and (v) monitor and evaluate the progress
of the reform.

4.1.20. Significant progress has been achieved but important elements of the reform need to be completed:
(i) a new ordinance has established new procedures and new institutions and several implementation
measures have been taken, including four arrêtés concerning the application of the Procurement Code, but
several others measures are still pending, including rules and procedures concerning maîtrise d'ouvrage
délégué; (ii) ARMP has been created but is not operational (no budget allocations; no appointment to key
management and staff positions); (iii) bidding procedures and awards are not published in official bulletins:
ARMP will be responsible for organizing the publication of future procurement decisions, when the new
institution begins to function.


                                                     - 11 -

4.1.21. The slow progress of the procurement reform is due to inadequate involvement of national
institutions in the initial design of the reform, which is viewed essentially as a World Bank product. It is
hoped that training programs, actual implementation of the reform and the (hopefully good) performance of
the new institutions will gradually rally support from all parties.

4.1.22. Management of domestic debt. In 2003-04, the new domestic debt settlement agency (Centre
Autonome d'Amortissement de la Dette Intérieure de l'Etat or CAADIE) has continued to implement ­ but
more slowly ­ the debt settlement plan defined by the government in 1999. Outstanding domestic debt has
been reduced from FCFA296 billion in 1999 to 233 billion by the end of 2002, 212 billion by the end of
2003 and about 203 billion by the end of 2004. As recommended by the IMF, the government will prepare
a report aimed at clarifying the domestic debt situation. The report will also help define a new settlement
plan.

4.1.23.   External controls. The PEAC 2 Program Document emphasized the need to strengthen the
capacity of the Chambre des Comptes. The Constitution has been revised to change the status of the
Chambre, which has become a Cour des Comptes independent from the Supreme Court. This is a
significant measure that needs to be followed by the approval of an organic law operationalizing the reform
and by designing and implementing a comprehensive training program for the staff of the institution.

f) Social Sector Reform

4.1.24.   Recent estimates (see sectoral distribution of public expenditures in Annex 8) indicate a
significant decline in the share of social sectors (education and health) in total public expenditures in 2004.
In the health sector, a sharp drop in foreign-financed investment expenditures is the main factor behind the
decline. In education, it is largely due to reduced unit costs, which enabled the sector to expand its activities
and meet its school enrollment targets.

4.1.25. Education. Although resources available to the sector stagnate or increase slowly and the share of
total expenditures declines, primary school enrollment rates are on the rise -- from 30% by the end of the
1990s, to 45% in 2002 and 50% in 2003. The share of girls is also increasing. These results were obtained
thanks to the construction of new classrooms (the President's Special Program financed 1992 classrooms in
2001-03), and the recruitment of contractual teachers whose unit costs are lower -- by more than 50% --
than the cost of civil service teachers. The government was able to recruit close to 2,700 contractual
teachers each year since 2001. It should be noted that the recruitment of these contractuels did not lower
the quality of primary education in Niger. This judgment has been confirmed by recent evaluation studies.
In addition completion rates and survival rates -- which reflect the system's internal efficiency -- are
improving. Completion rates (Taux d'achèvement) went up from 25.6% in 2001-02 to 32.2% in 2003-04.
Survival rates (Taux de survie) also went up from 64.2% in 2001-02 to 67.1% in 2003-04.

(The taux d'achèvement is defined as the number of children entering CM2 -- the last year of primary
education -- divided by the total number of 11 year-olds. The taux de survie is the percentage of children
having entered the school system 6 years ago who are still in the system six years later).

4.1.26. The PEAC 2 Program Document envisaged the delegation of authority and resources on a pilot
basis to local committees responsible for school management. The COGES include representatives of
parents, students, teachers and school managers. The new procedure has been tested in 240 schools.
Results obtained are viewed as positive by the Bank, the Basic Education ministry and the beneficiaries.
The government plans to extend the program to many other schools as a major instrument of its school


                                                     - 12 -

management policy.

4.1.27. To conclude on the education sector, the outcome (dramatic reduction in unit costs and rapid
progress of school enrollment rates) can be rated highly satisfactory.

4.1.28. Health. Based on "Strategic Orientations" adopted by the government in 2002 a five-year health
development plan has been prepared in 2004 and approved by the government in February 2005. A major
objective of the plan is to improve access to quality services and increase rates of utilization. To achieve
these objectives, the plan would rely on improved management of human resources and a gradual reform of
cost recovery policies.

4.1.29. In the context of its decentralization policy, the government plans to improve the distribution of
human resources for the benefit of regional and local services. In 2003, the Ministry of Health began to hire
health workers on contracts. Because of inadequate description of the program at the beginning of the
recruitment process, a court decided that the government should offer civil service positions to the 483
health workers recruited in 2003. In 2004, the government launched a new program of recruitment of health
workers on contracts. Salaries offered to the new recruits are equivalent to the base salaries of civil
servants at the beginning of their career (less benefits). The recruitment of contractuels in the health sector
will not reduce unit costs as dramatically as in the basic education sector. However, it will begin to address
a major sector problem, i.e., the shortage of staff in the poorest and less developed regions of the country.
In this context a decree is being prepared that will define the status of health sector contractuels and will
specify that they are attached to specific regions. This should reduce the concentration of health workers in
Niamey and other major cities. In addition the government has initiated a study aimed at introducing a more
rational health staff management system.

4.1.30. The President's Special Program has helped recruit staff for local health posts and has also
financed specialized medical staff. The transfer of budget funds to health districts through performance
contracts (on a pilot basis) has been delayed. It is now programmed for 2006 in the context of a health
sector SWAP under preparation by the government and the Bank.

4.1.31. The government's cost recovery policy has mobilized significant resources but represents a major
obstacle to improving rates of utilization as it limits access of the poor to health services. An ongoing study
on cost recovery will provide the data and analysis necessary for revisiting the policy. Its conclusions will
be used to initiate discussions with the country's development partners for a revision of the law on cost
recovery.

4.1.32. To conclude on the health sector, both the performance of the government and the outcome can be
rated moderately satisfactory.

g) Private sector development

4.1.33. In this area, achievements are very few and modest. Political stability and sound macroeconomic
policies helped restore the confidence of investors (private investment rose from 3.7% of GDP in 1999 to
4.7% in 2001 and 5.7% in 2003). However, after the privatization of the water and telecommunications
sectors in 2000-01, the country's privatization program stalled. GNDPP, an association of Nigerien
professionals, bought 6.88% of SONIDEP (distribution of petroleum products). Among multinational oil
companies, only TOTAL seemed to be interested subject to appropriate resolution of difficult issues
concerning profit margins and control of the enterprise.




                                                      - 13 -

4.1.34. Formally the government has satisfied the condition of the second tranche -- bidding documents
have been finalized and sent to potential bidders -- but the final result is disappointing. The government and
the Bank have decided to review together the lessons of the experience and revise their privatization
strategy. The problem is not only the lack of investor's interest in SONIDEP but also an ongoing
controversy about the impact of earlier privatization operations. Privatization of the water sector, it is
argued, led to significant increases in prices without significant improvements in the quality of services.
The deregulation of the telecommunications sector triggered a major expansion of cellular phone companies
and networks, but customers complain that the service provided by the newly privatized SONITEL is not
adequate.

4.1.35. One of the tasks of a new institution -- the Multi-Sectoral Regulation Authority (Autorité de
Régulation Multisectorielle or ARM) -- is to evaluate the performance of recently privatized activities. So
far ARM focused its attention on tariff issues and full implementation by strategic partners of conditions
specified in privatization agreements.

4.1.36. Privatization is not the single most important reform that will effectively promote the development
of the private sector. The government and the Bank should also analyze all the other factors (legal and
regulatory framework, judiciary, administrative practices, tax code, financial system, etc.) that inhibit
creation and expansion of private enterprises (large, medium-sized and small). A mission to assess the
country's environment for private sector development is scheduled for 2005.

4.1.37. To conclude on private sector development, the performance of the government can be rated
marginally satisfactory but the outcome clearly is unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
See Table 1 and paragraphs 4.1.3. to 4.1.39.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. In the long run, budget reform is bound to have a strong institutional development impact, as all the
departments and institutions concerned will adopt a more strategic approach to budget management and
will be able to monitor their performance in real time thanks to the combined development of transparent
accounting practices and a fully computerized financial management information system. It is more
difficult to assess the short-term institutional development impact of PEAC 2. Most of the measures
implemented in 2003-04 were aimed at introducing and testing new processes. Nigerien staff in Finance and
line ministries are gradually learning ways and means of using the new instruments, but ­ as could be
expected ­ the learning process is slow and the results are not immediate. Some of the benefits of the
budget reform will depend on completing institutional reforms. Merging Planning and Finance was an
important step towards integrated management of current and investment budgets but the dichotomy has
not disappeared. DGB's involvement in planning and managing investments is pro forma and within line
ministries the DAFs (Administrative and Financial Affairs Directorate) remain responsible for planning and
executing current expenditures, while the DEPs (Studies and Programs Directorate) plan and manage
investment programs. Nevertheless, the program-budgeting approach is already encouraging line ministries



                                                     - 14 -

to think globally. Several departments are beginning to recognize that in a country like Niger sectoral
programs should often give priority to vital current expenditures at the expense of investments. On balance,
the short-term institutional development impact of the budget reform is probably modest but the long-term
benefits are likely to be substantial.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The drought and locust attacks have been the main factors behind the mediocre growth
performance of the country in 2004. Periodic closing of the Nigerian border and non-payment by WAEMU
of special regional subsidies reduced government revenue (these subsidies had been created to offset the
negative impact of the new common external tariff on several member countries, including Niger; but the
shortage of funds largely due to the Ivorian crisis made it impossible for WAEMU to meet its obligations).

5.1.2. Donor support played a major role. Access to the HIPC Initiative was a strong motivating factor
for improving public finance management and making poverty reduction one of the main goals of
government policies. At the same time, instability of external budget support - which often materialized by
the end of the fiscal year - and the lack of an appropriate instrument (Treasury bills) to finance short-term
financing gaps have largely contributed to making the protection of vital activities and expenditures a most
difficult task. Instability of donor project financing also explains large annual variations in public spending
in priority sectors (health in particular).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Slow development of national capacity is by far the main factor affecting the pace of the reforms.
After decades of public finance management based on traditional methods learned during the colonial rule,
the introduction of modern accounting and financial management techniques requires major adjustments in
the structure and operations of key departments in the Ministry of Economy and Finance and in line
ministries as well as in the attitude, motivation and performance of their staff. Before the reform, the
Ministry of Economy and Finance was managing the budget and performed most of the ex-ante controls
and internal monitoring functions. As a result, sector ministries did very little planning outside the
preparation of investment projects and were ill-prepared to assume additional responsibilities. The Ministry
of Economy and Finance also needs to review its own procedures. Instead of seeing itself as the main actor,
the ministry must become the promoter of a decentralized process increasingly led by sector ministries. It
should therefore equip itself to provide adequate guidance to line ministries and other institutions on
implementation of the budget reform.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. See paragraph 5.2.1. above.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The full amount of the approved IDA credit (SDR 47.4 million) was disbursed in two tranches.
The first tranche (SDR 29 million) was disbursed when the credit became effective in December 2003
about one month later than originally scheduled. The second tranche (SDR 18.4 million) was released in
July 2004. The credit was closed on December 31, 2004, as scheduled.



                                                      - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The ongoing budget reform is expected to be sustainable for the following reasons:

        -    In December 2004, democratic elections consolidated the power of President Tandja and his
             team. The reelection of the President can be considered a mandate to pursue the reforms
             undertaken since 2000.
        -    As implementation of the reform continues, key departments in the Ministry of Economy and
             Finance and in line ministries have begun to recognize the potential benefits that could be
             derived from a more strategic approach to budget planning and management, and from
             improved monitoring of public expenditures and overall public finance performance.
        -    The international community vigorously supports the government's economic and financial
             recovery program, the country's poverty reduction strategy and the budget reform process.
             Adhesion of all the parties -- government and major donors -- to the conclusions and
             recommendations of the PEMFAR report should help harmonize government and donor
             objectives and program activities. This is essential to improve coordination of donor
             interventions in budget management and poverty reduction.
        -    The World Bank and other major donors, notably the European Union and the African
             Development Bank, have programmed a series of follow-up operations based on the same
             long-term policy objectives. A Public Expenditure Reform Credit and Grant, recently approved
             by the Bank's Executive Directors, will consolidate results already obtained under PEAC 1
             and 2 and will further strengthen the overall reform process.

6.1.2. The main conditions to ensure the long-term sustainability of the program also are: (i) special
efforts on the part of the government to improve communications between the units responsible for
designing the reforms and the agencies responsible for implementation, (ii) development of a more effective
consultation process between all the parties at all stages of the program cycle, and (iii) a major
capacity-building program supported by the Bank and the donor community. Much has been done by
several bilateral and multilateral donors to organize diagnostic studies and provide technical support and
equipment to help individual agencies perform some of the functions assigned to them in the context of the
reform process. The time has now come to assess ongoing and planned technical support programs and
define a broad capacity-building strategy for budget reform and poverty reduction that the government
would present to its development partners in the not too distant future.

6.1.3. Two major risks, however, may affect the long-term sustainability of the reform process:

        -     First, the rate of taxation has always been extremely low, increasing slowly to less than 11%
              of GDP in 2004. The small size of the modern sector and the domination of the informal
              sector in agriculture, trade and other services are a major constraint, and the WAEMU target
              of 17% is unlikely to be reached in the near future. Niger will continue to depend on massive
              budget support and development assistance for many more years. As mentioned earlier, the
              donor community seems to be willing to support the country's development for a long time as
              evidenced by the recent cancellation of Niger's debt. However, donor assistance will always
              depend on the capacity of the government to further improve its governance and
              macro-economic performance and strengthen its political and economic institutions.



                                                     - 16 -

        -     The stability of the reform process also depends on domestic factors. In this context, a major
              risk for the future is the reaction of trade unions and other pressure groups which in the 1990s
              have shown their capacity to derail the reform process. This year, the taxation of basic goods
              introduced in the context of the revised 2005 budget triggered again social tension. It is
              assumed that the government will be able to handle these new domestic crises as effectively as
              during the first four years of the Tandja mandate.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. So far, the main objective of adjustment credits in Niger has been to provide the type of budget
support the country badly needs, in the context of major macro-economic reforms aimed at restoring
economic growth and improving fiscal performance and public expenditure management. One of the goals
of the ongoing budget reform is to redirect a growing share of development assistance -- from the Bank and
other donors -- towards programmatic financing fully integrated into a government budget and supporting
critical policy and institutional reforms in key sectors mainly for poverty-reduction activities.
Consequently, macro-economic policy-based lending will continue to dominate future Bank operations for a
long time. However, a significant share of the Bank's lending program will also include: (i) sector-wide
loans with a major policy lending content in high-priority economic and social sectors (notably health and
rural development); and (ii) more traditional projects to develop infrastructures and support institutions in
education, transport, and agriculture (irrigation development).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The PEAC 2 program was in line with the country's development priorities and poverty reduction
strategy. Most of the objectives of the program will continue to dominate government policies and Bank
lending operations for many years.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. Moderately satisfactory. The Bank, in cooperation with the IMF, monitored carefully the overall
macroeconomic and public finance performance of the country. Their comments led the government to
revise the 2005 budget law approved by the National Assembly in October 2004 to increase projections of
HIPC funds and increase the share of public expenditures allocated to social sectors. However, closer
monitoring of budget execution by key sector ministries could have helped identify appropriate measures to
better protect vital activities.

7.2.2. Good technical support (with the help of PHRD resources) was provided to sector ministries to
help them modernize the budget preparation process and better understand the objectives and techniques of
program-budgeting. Perhaps a similar effort should also have been made to support budget execution,
accounting operations and financial management. Inadequate monitoring of the structure of public
expenditures by the government and the Bank also had a negative impact on the share of priority economic
and social sectors.

7.2.3. The provision of technical support to the government was also hampered by: (i) a shortage of staff
within MEF to administer Bank and other TA programs available to Niger; and (ii) an overly centralized
management system which requires all decisions concerning implementation of these programs to be
authorized by the leadership of the ministry. As a result, the simple hiring of consultants may require 3-4



                                                       - 17 -

months and the government has been unable to use effectively available resources. This is an important
issue that needs to be resolved as soon as possible to facilitate the design and accelerate implementation of
critical capacity-building programs.

7.2.4. Fortunately, PEAC 2 implementation coincided with the preparation of the PEMFAR report, which
mobilized a great deal of expertise from the Bank and other donors on macro-economic, public finance and
other issues addressed in the PEAC 2 program. The work on PEMFAR helped Bank country economists
and financial management specialists better understand some of the main weaknesses of the country's
financial management procedures and identify appropriate remedial action, which will dominate future
reforms.

7.2.5. Most of the supervision was performed by macro-economists and financial management specialists
but a budget reform and poverty reduction program cannot succeed without the strong support of the
Bank's sector specialists. Few incentives are available to sector staff when it comes to supervising
macroeconomic programs for which they do not feel responsible. The lending program for Niger should
make more room for sectoral programs that would not finance infrastructures but translate the main
objectives of macroeconomic and budget reforms into specific actions for key sectors (agriculture, roads,
education and health). This would help mobilize a more effective contribution of sector staff to PREM's
overall supervision efforts.



7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The overall Bank performance was considering the complexity of the program, the modest
capacity of many government institutions and the lack of adequate resources for a more intensive
supervision of credit implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. Preparation of PEAC 2, which was largely based on the results of PEAC 1, planned both the
continuation of ongoing reforms and their extension to new areas. The government participated actively in
the preparation of the macro-economic aspects of the program. The leadership of the country accorded a
high priority to sound macro-economic and fiscal management policy and fully supported the efforts of its
Ministry of Economy and Finance to design and implement a strong program in cooperation with the IMF
and the Bank.

7.4.2. With respect to budget management, the government relied mainly on Bank advice to define the
content and the timing of the reform process. With hindsight, four measures should have been taken to
improve the preparation phase of the program: (i) more systematic consultation with all ministries and
agencies likely to be involved in program implementation (the Ministry of Economy and Finance made most
of the decisions); (ii) special efforts to identify -- and time -- each of the intermediate steps necessary to
initiate and complete all the specific measures envisaged in the program; (iii) detailed assessment by
ministries and agencies concerned of their capacity to implement these measures; and (iv) design and
implementation of a capacity building program to facilitate a smooth implementation of the reform
measures.


7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                      - 18 -

7.5.1. The performance of the government was generally satisfactory. The strong commitment of the
political leadership and the management of the Ministry of Economy and Finance was a positive factor.
Despite the disappointing growth performance of the country in 2004, caused by exogenous factors, the
government was able to increase revenue and reduce its public finance deficit. A more rapid execution of
several components of the budget reform would have been desirable, but was not feasible considering
available institutional capacity.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The Ministry of Economy and Finance was the main actor at all stages of the process and in all
areas covered by the program. However, even within that Ministry, several key departments -- notably the
DGF, which is responsible for planning investment, mobilizing donor support and monitoring project
implementation -- were insufficiently involved in the program design and implementation. Stronger
cooperation between the budget (DGB) and the project monitoring (DGF) functions is essential to support
decisive progress towards fully integrated budget and public expenditure management.

7.6.2. At the beginning of the program, several line ministries were also insufficiently involved in the
design of the program. Eventually, a number of technicians and a few decision-makers began to recognize
the merits of new budget programming methods. The Ministry of Basic Education used the program-budget
process to operationalize the strategic objectives of its medium- and long-term development plans and
rationalize the structure of its public expenditure program. In other ministries (Health), competent technical
teams are beginning to use modern budget programming instruments to propose changes in the structure of
their budgets. However, in most line ministries the separation of the budget (DAFs) and planning (DEPs)
functions remains a serious obstacle to the development of a more integrated approach to budget planning
and management. The experience of other countries indicates that access to a central computerized
financial management information system and gradual delegation of the commitment (ordonnancement)
authority to line ministries are powerful incentives for a more effective participation of these ministries in
the budget management process.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1 On balance, the overall government performance was satisfactory considering institutional capacity
constraints.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1.1. The first lesson concerns the design of the program. Both PEAC 1 and PEAC 2 were prepared
before the government and the Bank had completed the review of Niger's financial management systems
that the PEMFAR report eventually produced. This was less important at the beginning of the reform
process when the first priority was to help the government improve its overall macro-economic and fiscal
performance. It became increasingly critical as more emphasis was placed on deepening the reform process,
improving the structure of public expenditures and modernizing the country's budget planning and
management instruments. Not only the PEMFAR report developed a more comprehensive diagnosis and
more detailed recommendations, including a more realistic sequencing of the proposed public finance
reforms, but it helped all the stakeholders better understand the rationale for the reforms. It also helped



                                                     - 19 -

develop a consensus among the country's development partners that has already improved cooperation
between the Bank, the European Union, the African Development Bank and other major donors.

8.1.2. The second lesson is about the type of technical support national institutions need to carry out the
proposed reforms. Designing and implementing the most appropriate technical support program is a high
priority. No government can successfully introduce radical reforms in its public finance system without
extensive technical advice, training and operational support during the transition period. The Bank and the
European Union were ready to provide consultants through the PHRD and other programs but no
systematic effort had been made to identify priorities for training, expertise and other inputs in direct
support of each major component of the reform program. As mentioned in paragraph 7.2.2, the Bank
provided adequate expertise to help technicians in line ministries prepare program-budgets. Additional
efforts should also be made to help DGB, DGF, the Treasury and line ministries monitor their performance,
analyze the structure of public expenditures, evaluate and eventually correct the impact of budget
regulation and cash management plans and use effectively the data produced by existing and future
information systems. The government and the Bank should initiate the preparation of a technical
assistance/capacity building operation which initially might be limited to the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, but should be extended gradually to line ministries and other institutions. However, the Bank
should not be the sole institution involved in the preparation and financing of such program. The country
needs to develop a budget reform/poverty reduction-related capacity-building strategy that should be
discussed with, and supported by, all major donors. This would go a long way to replace ad hoc
interventions by individual donors, which sometimes overlap and can not provide an integrated response to
all the capacity building requirements of national institutions.

8.1.3. The third lesson concerns the protection of activities and expenditures vital to improve the
performance of public sector institutions and support the goal of poverty reduction. In a country like Niger,
about 80% of expenditures are not under the control of the government and cannot possibly be adjusted
during budget implementation. In case of revenue shortfall, the obvious victims of budget regulation and
cash management plans are the remaining 20% which include high-priority maintenance and operating
costs, including school supplies, drugs, vaccines and road maintenance. A 10% reduction in available
resources may require a 50% reduction in that type of expenditures. The government and the donor
community should carefully study this issue with a view to identifying the most practical solutions. The
following approaches should be considered: (i) projections of government revenue and external support
should be more realistic: if budgets are based on overoptimistic assumptions about available resources, it
will be impossible to protect adequately high-priority maintenance and operating expenditures; (ii)
identifying core-activities that need to be protected during budget execution should be one of the main
priorities of annual budget preparation by line ministries and the DGB, and should be initiated at the
earliest possible stage, including during preparation of sector strategies and medium-term public
expenditure frameworks; (iii) if despite efforts to improve projections of government revenue and budget
support and develop more effective cash management plans, exceptional circumstances lead again to severe
resource shortfalls, the government and the donor community should consider ways and means of
mobilizing additional sources of financing, including Treasury bills, supplementary budget support and
reallocation of funds available under ongoing investment projects to finance vital recurrent expenditure, etc.
The government may also wish to create -- with help from donors -- a liquidity fund whose function would
be to manage the volatility of government revenues and other resources. However, in the long run the best
solution will be to increase the fungibility of development assistance through a gradual shift to
programmatic lending and budget support.

8.1.4. The study of the protection of vital recurrent expenditures should also address the seasonality of
both spending and available resources. In 2004, most of the budget support provided by donors was


                                                    - 20 -

disbursed by the end of the year, thus creating major liquidity problems with serious consequences for the
structure of public expenditures and the operational efficiency of public services. This issue should be
taken into account when planning budget support from the Bank and other donors.

8.1.5. The fourth lesson concerns the role of sector specialists. They need to be heavily involved in the
design and supervision of a multi-sector adjustment program focusing on budget reform. Linking
adjustment credits and sectoral programs probably is the best way to give Bank sector specialists the
incentive they need to monitor effectively the progress of the reforms to be implemented in their sector. This
was done in the education sector. It was also envisaged in the health sector when implementation of
PERCG was expected to coincide with implementation of a large health sector SWAP.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1.    The government did not submit a completion report but provided comments orally. The Ministry of
Economy and Finance feels that the PEAC 2 program and its timetable were over-ambitious. It recognizes
that Niger's government should have been more efficient and vigilant in implementing and monitoring
some of the reforms. It also believes that closer supervision by the Bank could have helped correct some of
these deficiencies. It emphasizes the damage caused by the lack of predictability of budget support, which
exacerbates liquidity problems caused by revenue shortfalls. It stresses the need for continuity: adjustment
programs and other policy lending instruments should give the utmost priority to completing unfinished
reforms before undertaking new ones ("opening new chantiers"). This is essential to consolidate progress
and strengthen the support of national institutions and public opinion to the overall reform process.

9.2.    The Ministry of Finance also emphasizes the merits of the PEMFAR exercise, which has unified
the views of the government and the donor community and will help harmonize donor programs. According
to the ministry, one of the main benefits of the report has been to improve cooperation between the two
main donors: the World Bank and the European Union.

(b) Cofinanciers:

9.3.    The World Bank and the African Development worked in tandem during preparation and
implementation of PEAC 2, harmonized the conditionalities of their credits and will continue to cooperate
to help implement the ongoing budget reform process.

9.4.    As noted in paragraph 9.2, one of the main positive outcomes of the PEMFAR report has been to
create conditions favorable to close cooperation between the Bank and the European Union. The benefits
of this cooperation were highly visible during preparation of the recently approved PERCG. The
contribution of the European Union to future programs will be substantial: 35 million euros in 2005 and
about 90 million in 2006-08.

9.5.    Staff from the European Union commented that the complexity of PEAC 2 (dispersion of the
program over too many components) hampered rapid and efficient implementation of the program. They
believe that a less heavy agenda based on clear and simple targets and indicators would have helped
Nigerien institutions better understand their priorities and focus on the most important reform measures.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.


                                                     - 21 -

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                              - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


       Objectives      Actions Taken Before       Actions Envisaged During                                              Actions Now Scheduled
                          Credit Approval              Implementation                Actions Taken in 2003-2004               for 2005-06
A. Budget Formulation
Improved budget        Preparation of          Updating of macroeconomic        2004 and 2005 budgets prepared on      Preparation of 2006
programming to reflect macroeconomic           framework for 2003-05,           the basis of macroeconomic             budget expected to
PRSP priorities and    framework for 2002-     including aggregate sector       framework.                             comply with provisions
macroeconomic          04 including            spending ceilings.                                                      of September 2003
objectives             aggregate sector        Issuing a decree on budget       Arrêté of september 2003 defines       arrêté. Macroeconomic
                       spending ceilings       preparation process              timetable and procedure for budget     framework will be
                                               establishing calendar and        preparation. Was partly implemented    published at the same
                                               responsibilities.                for preparing 2005 budget. However,    time as the lettre
                                                                                macroeconomic framework was            cirdulaire.
                                                                                produced later than initially
                                                                                envisaged.
                       2003 Budget Law         Ensuring consistency between     2004 Budget Law allocates              Protection of vital
                       allocations consistent  2004 and 2005 allocations and    reasonable share of total expenditures activities to be
                       with PRSP priorities    macroeconomic framework.         to priority sectors. Revised Budget    strengthened by sector
                                               Identification of priority       Law for 2005 provides for a            ministries participating
                                               (poverty reducing)               significant increase in the share of   in preparation of annual
                                               expenditures and simulation of   social sectors.                        cash management plan
                                               alternative financing scenarios  Design of a cash management plan       based on the budget.
                                               in the 2004 and 2005 Budget      aimed at protecting vital activities   This should help
                                               Laws.                            and poverty reducing expenditures.     integrate seasonality of
                                               Prepare medium-term              Alternative scenarios prepared by      activities in budget
                                               expenditure framework            MEF and line ministries.               regulation and cash
                                               document for 2005-07,                                                   management.
                                               covering priority sectors,                                              Government will also
                                               consistent with aggregate                                               soon complete list of
                                               sectoral spending ceilings and   MTEFs/Program-budgets prepared         poverty-reducing
                                               PRSP priorities.                 for education and health. The four     expenditures.
                                               Program-budgets prepared for     ministries responsible for rural       MTEFs/program-
                                               education, health, rural         development focused their attention    budgets will be prepared
                                               development and                  on preparing a sector strategy and a   in 2006 for rural
                                               infrastructure.                  common operational program             development and in
                                                                                                                       2007 for infrastructure.
Revise budget          Preparation of          Include an annex with            Annex on financial statements of
classification and     revised budget          summarized financial             parastatals was never prepared.
increase budget        classification in line  statements of the main
coverage to allow      with WAEMU              parastatals in the 2004 Budget   Autonomous agencies
adequate monitoring of guidelines.             Law.                             (établissements publics) use the
expenditures programs. Preparation of 2003     Introduce new budget             SYSCOA accounting system.
                       Budget Law with         classification and charter of
                       new budget              accounts for decentralized
                       classification.         collectivities and parastatals.




                                                                        - 23 -

       Objectives        Actions Taken Before      Actions Envisaged During                                                 Actions Now Scheduled
                            Credit Approval              Implementation                 Actions Taken in 2003-2004                 for 2005-06
B. Budget Execution
Streamline and           Working group          Integrate ongoing PEMFAR          PEMFAR diagnosis and                     Simplification of chain
modernize budget         established to prepare analysis into expenditure         recommendations approved by              of expenditures and
execution to facilitate  diagnosis of           management diagnosis.             government and donors.                   reduction of ex-ante
monitoring and control.  expenditure process    Implementation of action plan     Government also approved 2005            controls depends on
                         (including ex ante     for the execution of the 2004     action plan based on PEMFAR              access of line ministries
                         controls).             budget.                           report.                                  to FMIS (now scheduled
                         Committee              Action plan adopted to                                                     for end-2005).
                         established for        streamline expenditure chain.
                         control of
                         exceptional
                         expenditures.
Computerize budget       Expansion of           Expansion of FMIS to credit       FMIS extended to three paieries.         Computer room within
execution and ensure     Financial              managers and regional treasury    Equipment for extension to the five      MEF will be operational
information is available Information System     offices.                          other paieries is available.             end-2005 (ADB finan-
in real time.            (FMIS) to revenue                                                                                 cing). The 5 remaining
                         collecting agencies                                                                               paieries are also
                         and the Treasury.                                                                                 expected to be connect-
                                                                                                                           ed in by end June 2005.
Develop system of        Rolling cash           Operationnalize Inter-            Committee including representatives      In 2005, line ministries
predictable and          management plans       ministerial Committee for         of MEF reviews cash management           will participate in
transparent cash flows.  prepared on a bi-      monitoring cash management        plans prepared by the Treasury. No       preparation of annual
                         weekly basis.          and decision-making on credit     direct participation of line ministries. cash management plan
                                                allocations and adopt list of                                              (based on the budget).
                                                priority expenditures to be                                                Government is preparing
                                                protected in cash rationing.                                               list of poverty-reducing
                                                Prepare, implement and                                                     expenditures to be
                                                publish quarterly cash                                                     submitted to IMF and
                                                allocation plan based on the                                               Bank before end
                                                budget.                                                                    September 2005.
Ensure that              New procurement        Adoption of necessary legal       Many legal documents for                 Adoption of missing
procurement of goods     code approved by       texts and manual of procedures    implementation of new code have          legal documents.
and services is cost-    National Assembly in   for implementation of             been prepared and adopted. A few         ARMP will publish
efficient and            October 2002.          procurement code; information     still need to be prepared including      information on bidding
transparent.                                    bulletins published regularly;    procedures concerning maîtrise           procedures and awards
                                                institutional reform.             d'ouvrage déléguée.                      when newly created
                                                                                  Institutional reform has been            institution functions
                                                                                  initiated. ARMP not yet operational.     effectively.
Manage and record        Action plan to reform  Implementation of transfer of     Not implemented in 2004.                 Mechanism will be
deconcentrated           deconcentrated         block grants to health districts                                           tested in the context of
expenditures             expenditures adopted   on a pilot basis (to be included                                           the health sector SWAP
efficiently.             (crédits délégués).    in 2004 budget).                                                           under preparation.
Settle domestic arrears  Adoption of domestic   Domestic arrears are settled in   Stock of domestic arrears reduced        Government to clarify
and ensure no new        arrears settlement     line with 2003 objectives.        from FCFA 296 billion in 1999 to         situation of outstanding
arrears accumulation.    plan. No new arrears   No new arrears accumulation       FCFA 206 billion by the end of 2004.     arrears and define
                         accumulation in        in 2004.                                                                   settlement plan for
                         2002.                                                                                             future years.




                                                                          - 24 -

       Objectives       Actions Taken Before       Actions Envisaged During                                               Actions Now Scheduled
                           Credit Approval              Implementation                 Actions Taken in 2003-2004               for 2005-06
C. Budget Monitoring and Evaluation
Develop financial       New charter of          FMIS is adapted to the new        Chart of accounts adopted and used
accounting procedures   accounts prepared (in   Chart of Accounts, which will     in 2003. Committee created to study
for transparent         line with WAEMU         be used for the execution of      outstanding adaptation issues.
monitoring of budget    guidelines).            the 2003 and 2004 budgets.
execution.              Public accounting       Quality standards for recording
                        software launched for   of transactions are established
                        implementation of       and enforced.
                        new budget
                        classification and
                        charter of accounts.
Prepare budget                                  Introduction of quarterly         No quarterly execution reports for     Government will carry
execution reports on a                          budget execution reports for      priority sectors. Public expenditures  out review of public
regular basis and                               priority sectors.                 reviews of priority sectors performed  sector expenditures in
disseminate                                                                       in the context of the PEMFAR           priority sectors in 2005.
government-wide                                                                   exercise.
Analyze public          Working groups          PER/CFAA is completed and         PEMFAR report approved by the          Government will take
expenditure             established for         recommendations are adopted.      government in December 2004.           measures for
management and          preparation of a        External evaluation of the use    Evaluation of use of HIPC funds        implementing main
recommend               PEMFAR at the level     of HIPC resources is              completed.                             recommendations of
strengthening existing  of the Ministry of      conducted.                                                               evaluation, including
system.                 Finance and Sectoral    Beneficiary incidence analysis.                                          better integration of the
                        Ministries.                                                                                      President's Special
                                                                                                                         Program into sector
                                                                                                                         programs of line
                                                                                                                         ministries.
D. Budget Audit
Restore Parliamentary   Budget review laws      Budget review laws for 2001       Budget review law for 2001             Budget accounts for
and external audit on   for 1997-2000           and 2002 are transmitted to the   approved by National Assembly.         2003 under preparation.
budget execution.       adopted by the          National Assembly. Budget         Budget review law for 2002
                        National Assembly.      accounts for 2002 closed.         submitted to government.
                        Budget accounts for                                       Constitution amended to change         Organic Law for
                        1998-2001 sent to       Build capacity of Chamber of      Chamber of Accounts into an            operationalization of
                        Audit Office            Accounts to enable it to fulfill  independent Court of Accounts.         new Court of Accounts
                        (Chambre des            its oversight role.                                                      should be submitted to
                        Comptes).                                                                                        the National Assembly.
E. Public Sector Human Resource Management
Integrate human         Integrate payroll/civil Access to database extended to    Integration of payroll/civil service
resources databases to  service database;       Ministry of Labor and             database in 2003.
strengthen control over arrangements for        Modernization of
the wage bill.          database                Administration (MLMA) and
Modernize civil         management and          HR managers in line ministries
service.                accountability          for updating civil service data;
                        adopted; action plan    implement action plan on civil
                        for civil service       service reform.
                        reform prepared.




                                                                         - 25 -

      Objectives        Actions Taken Before     Actions Envisaged During            Actions Taken in 2003-2004         Actions Now Scheduled
                           Credit Approval             Implementation                                                          for 2005-06
F. Education
Anchor education on a   10-year development    Satisfactory implementation of   Initiation of discussion on priorities
medium-term strategic   plan (PDDE) has        updated 10-year program (in      of post-primary education.
and financial           been adopted.          line with EFA proposal);
framework.              Niger's proposal for   adoption of 2nd part of PDDE
                        Education for All      containing strategies for
                        initiative accepted by secondary, tertiary and
                        donors in line with    vocational education.
                        MDGs.                  Preparation of program-budget
                                               2005-07 for basic education.

Ensure that budget      2002 and 2003          Ensure that 2004 and 2005        2004 budget law and revised 2005
allocations to basic                           budget laws include sufficient   budget law allocate reasonable share
education are adequate. budget laws include    funds for core education         of total public expenditures for basic
                                               expenditures, such as cost of    education.
                        sufficient funds for   volunteer teachers, stipends for
                                               teacher's college students,      Weak relationship between program-
                        core expenditures in   operating costs of CAPED and     budgets and budget laws.
                                               data collection for M/E. Ensure
                        basic education.       consistency between 2005
                                               budget law and program-
                                               budget.

Decentralized           PDDE provides for      Continue and expand              Authority and resources delegated to    Mechanisms will be
management of funds     decentralized          delegation of authority and      COGES for 240 schools.                  gradually extended to
at school level.        management of block    resources to COGES and                                                   many other schools.
                        grants at the school   provide sufficient budget
                        level (COGES).         resources in 2003-05.
Improve cost efficiency All new recruits for   Continued recruitment of         Government continues recruiting         Transformation of
and quality of basic    primary education      contractual teachers             contractuels (more than 2.500/year).    Ecoles Normales
education delivery.     were contractual       (volunteers) in 2004 and 2005;                                           d'Instituteurs into
                        teachers in 2002-03;   quality control through                                                  autonomous agencies
                        framework law for      improved effectiveness of                                                (EPAs).
                        training in teacher's  framework law for pre-service
                        colleges adopted.      training through the adoption
                                               of implementation texts.
Strengthen knowledge                           Completion of Public             PER performed in the context of         Government will carry
about budget                                   Expenditure. Review. Tracking    preparation of PEMFAR report.           out new public
execution.                                     and beneficiary incidence                                                expenditure review for
                                               survey.                                                                  priority sectors in 2005.




                                                                        - 26 -

      Objectives         Actions Taken Before       Actions Envisaged During                                                 Actions Now Scheduled
                            Credit Approval              Implementation                 Actions Taken in 2003-2004                 for 2005-06
G. Health
Provide an adequate      10-year health sector   Adoption of 5-year health         Five-year health development plan        PDS approved by
medium-term strategic    strategy and policy     sector development plan           (PDS) finalized in 2004.                 government in February
framework to health      statement adopted       (2003-07) based on 10-year        Program-budget 2005-07 prepared in       2005.
policy.                  (2002) and presented    strategy, including full costing  2004.
                         to donor community.     of program and financing
                         Consistent with         strategy.
                         PRSP.                   Program-budget prepared for
                                                 2005-07.
Rationalize              Census of health        5-year development plan to lay    483 contractuels recruited in 2003,      Recruitment of new
management of human      sector personnel        out new human resources           then integrated into civil service.      contractuels
resources and ensure     conducted.              strategy, particularly on         New recruitment program launched         programmed for 2005.
responsiveness to        477 health workers      increasing recruitment and        in 2004.                                 Decree defining status of
needs on the ground.     on contracts recruited  deployment of staff in the        President's Special Program finances     health contract workers
                         at decentralized level  field.                            recruitment and training of staff for    under preparation.
                         in two phases and                                         health posts. PSP also finances          Contractuels will be
                         deployed.                                                 training of specialized medical staff.   directly attached to
                                                                                                                            regions.
Ensure that budget       2002 and 2003           The 2004 and 2005 budget          Size of health sector budget in 2005
allocations for primary  budget laws included    laws provide for core-            based on low-growth scenario in
health care are          sufficient              expenditures as identified by     MTEF/Program-budget.
adequate.                appropriations for      Ministry of Public Health,
                         core health activities. including sufficient
                                                 appropriations for full staffing
                                                 and non-wage recurrent
                                                 spending of newly constructed
                                                 CSIs/DHs.
Improve availability     Launching of            Adoption of policy on access      Cost recovery mobilizes significant      Reflection on issue will
and affordability of     evaluation of public    to essential drugs and            and growing resources but limits         begin in 2005 on basis
essential generic drugs. drug distribution       improved management of            access of poor to health services.       ongoing study of cost
                         agency (ONPPC)          ONPPC on the basis of                                                      recovery.
                         with respect to         available studies.
                         procurement,
                         management of
                         stocks and finances.
Move towards             Legal status of local   Organize direct transfer of       Direct transfers to health districts not Performance based-
decentralized,           management boards       budget resources to districts     initiated in 2004.                       program will be
performance-based        (COGES-COSAN)           based on performance                                                       prepared and
provision of health      amended to increase     contracts and allocate required                                            implemented in 2006 in
services.                their autonomy.         funds in 2004 budget.                                                      connection with
                                                                                                                            execution of the health
                                                                                                                            sector SWAP under
                                                                                                                            preparation.




                                                                          - 27 -

       Objectives         Actions Taken Before     Actions Envisaged During                                              Actions Now Scheduled
                             Credit Approval              Implementation               Actions Taken in 2003-2004              for 2005-06


H. Regulation and Privatization

Establish a regulatory    President of Multi-    Adoption of business plan and   President of ARM et sector directors
framework.                sectoral Regulatory    organizational structure for    have been appointed. ARM focuses
                          Agency (MRA)           MRA. TORs for key staff         its attention on review of
                          appointed.             acceptable to IDA.              performance of privatized enterprises
                          Draft proposal         Selection and hiring of sector  in water and telecommunications
                          prepared for MRA       directors.                      sector.
                          including business
                          plan, organizational
                          structure and job
                          descriptions for
                          sector directors.
Strengthen import and     A new mechanism        SONIDEP is brought to a point   Biding documents ­ satisfactory to     Niger's privatization
distribution of           for automatic,         of sale, i.e. bidding documents IDA ­ have been sent to enterprises    strategy will be revised
petroleum products..      flexible and           acceptable to IDA have been     having expressed interest in           taking into account
                          transparent pricing of sent to potential bidders.      purchasing SONIDEP atbout 7% of        outcome of past
                          petroleum products is  Pricing mechanism is            the company's share capital has been   privatizations and
                          introduced.            safeguarded.                    purchased by a group of Nigerien       disappointing results of
                                                                                 professionals. No financial offer from new operations.
                                                                                 multinationals. They want a review
                                                                                 of margins and be guaranteed control
                                                                                 of management.




                                                                          - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                            Project Cost (in SDR equivalent)

                                        Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
                  Description            Estimate     Estimate  of Appraisal
                                          (SDR)         (SDR)       (%)

         First Tranche                      29.0         29.0      100%

         Second Tranche                     18.4         18.4      100%
         Total Baseline Cost                47.4         47.4
         Total Project Cost                 47.4         47.4

         Total Financing Required           47.4         47.4




                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification:            1    TTL                               S               S
              Apr 21, 2003               1    Economist
                                         1    Assistant
              Regional                   1    Vice President                    S               S
              Operations                 1    Lead Economist (AFRCE)
              Committee (ROC)            2    Directors (CT,QK)
              Aug 4, 2003                2    Lawyers
                                         1    Adviser (OPCCE)
                                         1    Specialist (QK)
                                         2    Lead Specialists
                                         1    Lead Fin. Sec. Specialist
                                         1    TTL
                                         1    Lead Economist
                                         1    Operations Officer
                                         2    Research Assistants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:                 1    TTL                               S               S
              Aug 11, 2003               1    Lead Economist
                                         1    Operations Officer
                                         1    Economist
                                         1    Sr PSD Specialist
                                         1    Research Assistant
                                         2    Consultants
              Negotiations:              1    Country Director                  S               S
              Sept 11, 2003              1    Sector Manager
                                         1    Lead Economist
                                         1    TTL
                                         2    Lawyers
                                         1    Disbursement Officer
                                         1    Operations Officer

 Supervision
              First SPN                  1    TTL                               S               S
                                         1    Lead Economist
                                         1    Operations Officer
                                         1    Economist
                                         2    Research Assistants
                                         2    Consultants
              Second SPN                 1    TTL                               S               S

 ICR
              ICR                        1     TTL
                                         1     Consultant



(b) Staff:



                                               - 31 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          55.48                      143816.14
Appraisal/Negotiation               55.49                      143816.14
Supervision                         12.52                       25116.19
ICR                                    6.0                       15000.0
Total                             129.49                       327748.47




                                         - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Except for a Table showing the sectoral distribution of public expenditures (see Annex 8), no specific
documents were prepared for this implementation completion report. The assessment is based on Bank
supervision reports, an ICR field mission, discussions with Bank staff, and relevant documents prepared
by the Borrower since effectiveness of the Credit.




                                                  - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Distribution by Sector Public Expenditures (2000-2005) -- in FCFA
million


Ministries/Sectors                                     2000                   2001                   2002                   2003                   2004
                                               Budget    Exécution    Budget    Exécution    Budget    Exécution   Budget     Exécution    Budget    Exécu
Education (All sub-sectors, including Basic     42,310       40,230    40,190       42,970    54,517       39,359   58,456        40,914    65,099
Education)                                      22,860       24,810    21,640       23,790    25,528       26,478    26,358       27,468    32,470
-Salaries                                       10,100        8,480    10,890        9,210    12.996       10,464    11,870        9,132    19,949
-Other current expenditures                      9,350        6,940     7,660        9,970    15,993        2,417    20,226        4,314    21,680
-Investments                                     2,610        700       2,430        2,990     5,172                 3,580         4,047     4,302
-Of which : domestically financed investments    16,1%       23,1%      12,8%       20,7%     17,2%        26,2%     17,2%        26,9%      19,2
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt       3,3%         3,1%      2,8%         3,0%      3,6%         2,6%     3,7%          2,6%      4,0%
service)
In shares of GDP
Basic Education only                                                                          42,170       31,645    38,665       30,393    52,061
-Salaries                                                                                     24,644       26,232    15,910       23,941    29,419
-Other current expenditures                                                                    3,963        2,996    3,225         2,405     3,235
-Investments                                                                                  13,563        2,417    19,530        4,047    19,407
-Of which : domestically-financed investments                                                  2,742                                         4,129
In % of total expenditures(excluding debts                                                    13,3%        21,1%     11,4%        20,0%     15,3%
service)                                                                                       2,8%         2,1%     2,4%          2,1%      3,2%
In shalres of GDP
Health                                          36,440       28,780    37,220       33,390    39,238       35,070    35,940       16,809    36,281
-Salaries                                        5,080        4,880     4,830        4,848     5,058        5,220    5,530         4,847     5,963
-Other current expenditures                     12,120        5,470    12,610        8,760    13,040        9,910    11,460        6,515    10,731
-Investments                                    19,240       18,430    19,780       19,650    21,140       19,910    18,950        5,447    19,587
-Of which : domestically financed investments    2,820        1,850     2,850        4,430     3,540        3,380    4,400         5,447       -
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt       13,8%       16,5%      11,9%       16,1%     12,4%        23,3%     10,6%        11,1%     10,7%
service)                                         2,8%         2,2%      2,6%         2,3%      2,6%         2,3%     2,3%          1,1%      2,2%
In shares of GDP
Rural Development                               51,540       27,830    55,340       47,460    67,320       53,090    71,760       12,226    87,794
-Salaries                                        3,760        3,540     3,570        4,170     3,560        3,580    3,860         3,204     3,331
-Other current expenditures                      4,430        1,390     5,470        4,940     6,620        3,820    6,590         3,552     4,862
-Investments                                    43,350       22,900    46,300       38,350    57,140       45,690    61,310        5,470    79,601
-Of which : domestically financed investments    4,820        2,340     5,530        8,490     6,430        6,920    9,510                     -
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt       19,6%       16,0%      17,7%       22,8%     21,3%        35,3%     21,1%         8,1%     28,8%
service)                                         4,0%         2,2%      3,9%         3,3%      4,4%         3,5%     4,5%          0,8%      5,4%
In shares of GDP
Roads                                           46,500       16,200    32,930        8,060    37,600       21,470    26,250        4,594    20,700
-Salaries                                         960         780        900         610        900         720      1,060         621        651
-Other current expenditures                      4,500        250       4,910        1,870     4,180        2,700    5,950         1,084     4,170
-Investments                                    41,040       15,170    27,120        5,580    32,520       18,050    19,260        2,889    15,879
-Of which : domestically financed investments    4,970        1,530     3,200        1,510     3,650        2,770    4,170                     -
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt       17,7%        9,3%      10,5%        3,9%     11,9%        14,3%     7,7%          3,0%      6,1%
service)                                         3,6%         1,3%      2,3%         0,6%      0,5%         1,4%     1,7%          0,3%      1,3%
In shares of GDP
Total public expenditures (excluding debt       263,150      174,200   313,330      207,730   316,631      150,304  339,559       151,822   339,886
service)
                     GDP                             1,280,000              1,426,000              1,515,000              1,587,000              1,628,000




                                                                    - 36 -

     Distribution by Sector of Public Expenditures (2000-2005) - In % of total expenditures
                                                        excluding debt service

Ministries/Sectors                                     2000                 2001                 2002                 2003                 2004
                                               Budget    Exécution   Budget   Exécution  Budget    Exécution  Budget   Exécution   Budget    Exécu
Education (All sub-sectors, including Basic     16,1%       23,1%     12,8%      20,7%    17,2%       26,2%    17,2%      26,9%     19,2%
Education)                                       8,7%       14,2%      6,9%      11,5%     8,1%       17,6%     7,8%      18,1%      9,6%
-Salaries                                        3,8%       4,9%       3,5%      4,4%      4,1%        7,0%     3,5%       6,0%      3,2%
-Other current expenditures                      3,6%       4,0%       2,4%      4,8%      5,1%        1,6%     6,0%       2,8%      6,4%
-Investments
-Of which : domestically financed investments
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt
service)
In shares of GDP
Basic Education only                                                                       13,3%      21,1%-   11,4%      20,0%     15,3%
-Salaries                                                                                  7,8%       17,5%-    4,7%      15,8%      8,7%
-Other current expenditures                                                                1,3%        2,0%     0,9%       1,6%      1,0%
-Investments                                                                               4,3%        1,6%     5,8%       2,7%      5,7%
-Of which : domestically-financed investments
In % of total expenditures(excluding debts
service)
In shalres of GDP
Health                                          13,8%       16,5%     11,9%      16,1%    12,4%       23,3%    10,6%      11,1%     10,7%
-Salaries                                        1,9%       2,8%       1,5%      2,3%      1,6%        3,5%     1,6%       3,2%      1,8%
-Other current expenditures                      4,6%       3,1%       4,0%      4,2%      4,1%        6,6%     3,4%       4,3%      3,2%
-Investments                                     7,3%       10,6%      6,3%      9,5%      6,7%       13,2%     5,6%       3,6%      5,8%
-Of which : domestically financed investments
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt
service)
In shares of GDP
Rural Development                               19,6%       16,0%     17,7%      22,8%    21,3%       35,3%    21,1%       8,1%     25,8%
-Salaries                                        1,4%       2,0%       1,1%      2,0%      1,1%        2,4%     1,1%       2,1%      1,0%
-Other current expenditures                      1,7%       0,8%       1,7%      2,4%      2,1%        2,5%     1,9%       2,3%      1,4%
-Investments                                     16,5%      13,1%     14,8%      18,5%     18,0%      30,4%    18,1%       3,6%     23,4%
-Of which : domestically financed investments
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt
service)
In shares of GDP
Roads                                           17,7%       9,3%      10,5%      3,9%     11,9%       14,3%    7,7%        3,0%      6,1%
-Salaries                                        0,4%       0,4%       0,3%      0,3%      0,3%        0,5%     0,3%       0,4%      0,2%
-Other current expenditures                      1,7%       0,1%       1,5%      0,9%      1,3%        1,8%     1,8%       0,7%      1,2%
-Investments                                     15,6%      8,7%       8,6%      2,7%      10,3%      12,0%     5,7%       1,9%      4,7%
-Of which : domestically financed investments
In % of total expenditures (excluding debt
service)
In shares of GDP
Total public expenditures (excluding debt       263,150    174,200   313,330    207,730   316,631    150,304   339,559    151,822   339,886
service)
Priority social sectors (Health & Basic                                                   81,408      66,715   74,605     47,202    88,342
Education)                                                                                 25.7%      44,4%    22,0%      31,1%     26.0%
In % of total expenditures




                                                                   - 37 -

Comments:

A. On methodology:

Budget forecast and execution figures had to be adjusted as follows:

a)       Payments to contractual teachers have been included in salaries (they are classified as transfers in Niger's
         budgets).
b)       Investment and recurrent spending on the AIDs/HIV program, which is included in the budget of the
         Prime Minister's Office has been reallocated to the health sector.
c)       Spending on food security and rural sector investments in the budget of the Prime Minister's Office has
         been allocated to the rural development sector.
d)       A number of transfers and subsidies for the rural sector included in the budget of Finance have been
         reallocated to rural development.
e)       Health, education and irrigation projects financed by the President's Special Program (which are included
         in the budget of Economy and Finance) have been reallocated to the relevant sectors.
f)       No adjustment has been made with respect to tax exemptions on donor-financed investments.

B. On actual distribution of expenditures

Education

Slight increase of education spending in volume but slight reduction in percentage of total public expenditures.
Causes:

-        Stagnation in volume of spending on basic education and significant decline in percentage of total public
         expenditures. However basic education still accounts for a high 60 to 80% of total spending for education.
         This is largely due to the decline of staff costs thanks to the recruitment of contractual teachers (as
         mentioned above, the cost of contractual teachers is included under "salaries" in this Table).
Health

-        Significant decline of spending on health in volume and percentage of total expenditures.
-        Causes: a sharp drop in investments in volume and in percentage of total expenditures since 2002.

Social Sectors

-        Spending on social sectors reached a peak in 2002 (close to FCFA 75 billion and 50% of total
expenditures).
-        Sharp decline in 2003 and 2004: respectively FCFA 58-63 billion and 31-38% of total expenditures.

Priority Social Sectors (Health and Basic Education)

-        Spending on priority social sectors also reached a peak in 2002 (close to FCFA 67 billion and 44% of total
expenditures)
-        Sharp decline in 2003 and 2004: FCFA 47 billion and 24-31% of total expenditures.
-        Both in 2002 and 2003, the share of total expenditures was higher in executed than in voted budget. The
reverse was true in 2004.

Rural Development

-        Significant increase of rural development spending in volume and percentage of total expenditures until
2003 (FCFA 53 billion and 35% of total expenditures).




                                                          - 38 -

-      Sharp drop in 2003 (FCFA12 billion and 8% of total expenditures) mainly caused by a sharp drop in
investments.
-      Recovery in 2004 (FCFA 44 billion and 22% of total expenditures), due to a recovery of investment
spending.

Roads

-     A significant increase in volume (FCFA 21.5 milliards) and in percentage of total expenditures (14%) in
      2002, resulting from a significant increase in investments.
-     Sharp drop of spending on roads in 2003 and 2004 (FCFA 6.3 billion and 3.1% of total expenditures),
      principally due to the collapse of investment spending.
-     One should also note a significant increase in operating expenditures other than salaries, that reflects
      efforts made to increase funds allocated to road maintenance in 2004.




                                                      - 39 -

          Additional Annex 9. Program-Budgeting: Technical Issues


          As mentioned in paragraph 4.1.10 of the ICR, the development of sound program-budgets that will have a
profound influence on actual budget decisions will take a long time. So far, preparation of program-budgets is
performed by technicians who are learning to manipulate the instrument and are not yet in a position to influence
budget choices. A number of technical, institutional, incentive and other issues will need to be addressed to better
integrate modern budget programming techniques into the national budget preparation and approval process.

     -    A first technical issue is to design a methodology to integrate programs identified in the context of the
          budget-programming process into the existing budget classification. With help from a consultant, a small
          team within the Ministry of Health has begun to work on this issue. The consultant believes that the most
          practical approach at this early stage is to help line ministries convert conventional budget proposals into
          program-budgets.

     -    A second technical issue is about the preparation of integrated budgets (recurrent and investment
          expenditures whether financed by domestic or foreign funds). This is a very difficult task as available data
          on externally financed expenditures are incomplete and unreliable. A few line ministries (mainly Basic
          Education) have begun to create a more reliable data base for their sector, but in the long run the collection
          and analysis of data on donor-financed investments will depend on: (i) the extension of the financial
          management information system to DGF (the Direction Générale des Financements which is responsible
          for monitoring commitment and disbursement of foreign grants and loans) and line ministries, and (ii)
          better cooperation between Finance, line ministries, project managers and donors (who often fail to
          communicate data on donor-managed projects on a timely basis).

     -    So far line ministries seldom use the same assumptions about available resources when preparing
          program-budgets and for the preparation of conventional budget proposals. They tend to view the
          budget-programming exercise as an opportunity to define a less constrained version of the ministry's
          expenditure program. To discipline the process, the government should produce and update annually a
          global MTEF (based on a couple of alternative scenarios) which line ministries would use to prepare both
          conventional and program-budgets.

     -    It is important that the scenario used to prepare program and conventional budget proposals be realistic. It
          is also important that line ministries prepare alternative proposals in case of sharp revenue shortfall. This is
          the only way to make realistic assumptions about core-activities and expenditures that need to be fully
          protected during budget execution.

     -    It is also essential that technical teams preparing program-budgets work in close cooperation with staff and
          managers responsible for preparing conventional budgets. Basic Education has taken steps to strengthen
          cooperation between program-budget technicians and decision-makers and has been able to identify budget
          choices critical to optimize the use of available resources. The ministry has even begun to reform its
          organizational structure in order to clearly identify managers and units responsible for each "program". In
          other ministries, additional efforts will be needed overtime to ensure that recommendations based on
          program-budgets influence final budget decisions.

     -    As long as the budget-programming process is viewed as a test, rather than an effective policy-making
          instrument, the best way to introduce a strategic approach to policy and program design is to organize the
          preparation of detailed sector strategies. Several line ministries have begun to prepare or update coherent



                                                               - 40 -

  sector strategies. In February 2005, the government has adopted a health development plan. A national
  transport strategy has been prepared. The four ministries responsible for rural development are working on
  a common operational program. Basic Education has prepared a ten-year program (PDDE) that has been
  reviewed and endorsed by the international community. The Bank has begun to work on the elements of a
  national post-primary education strategy to be prepared by the other Education ministries. Nevertheless,
  like program-budgets, sector strategies are mainly prepared by technicians and do not necessarily reflect a
  broad national consensus.

- Incentives are an important factor. Social sector ministries assumed -- wrongly -- that the preparation of
  program-budgets would help them increase the share of government funds allocated to their sectors. At this
  stage the main benefit of program-budgets for priority sectors is not to increase resources but to provide the
  analysis necessary to optimize their use. In the long run, however, well-prepared programs and
  program-budgets may help key sectors mobilize additional resources from the donor community. Through
  its participation in the Education for All/Fast Track Initiative, Basic Education should be able to mobilize
  growing donor support if it is able to clearly identify specific activities and resources necessary to
  accelerate progress towards higher school enrollments and improved quality of education.

- In many sectors, investments -- often donor-financed -- account for a large percentage of total public
  expenditures. In transport and rural development, more than 80 percent of public expenditures are for
  investments. The share of investments in social sector activities is lower, but exceeded 50 percent in health
  in 2000-02. Consequently, sector strategies and program-budgets need to be reviewed and supported by the
  donor community. Donor meetings on program objectives ­ UNDP-sponsored sector consultations or ad
  hoc donor meetings in the context of Bank sector lending operations ­ should be organized periodically for
  all key sectors.




                                                      - 41 -

- 42 -

