Page  1
CONFORMED 
COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3827 NIR 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  November 4, 2003 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3827 NIR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 4, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
September 12, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve consolidation and coordination of the Borrower’s budgeting process and reform 
of its financial management (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
WHEREAS, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the Deposit Account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
“ARM” means 
Autorité de Régulation Multisectorielle, 
the Borrower’s 
multisector regulatory agency established pursuant to the Borrower’s Ordonnance  
No.: 99-044 dated October 26, 1999 published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette of 
November 15, 2000, page 791; 
(b) 
“BCEAO means 
Banque Centrale des 
États de l’Afrique de 
l’Ouest, 
the common central bank for the west African Francophone countries and 
Guinea Bissau; 
(c) 
“Cash Allocation Plan” means the Borrower’s 
cadre d’un plan de 
trésorerie, 
which makes monthly provisions for cash allocations to expenditures in 
accordance with budgetary credits; 
(d) 
“
Certificat de Concordance
”
means a compliance certificate, confirming 
the coherence of the public account (“compte de gestion”) of the Borrower’s treasury and 
budgetary accounts (“comptes administratifs”) of the Borrower’s budget directorate; 
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(f) 
“Currency of the European Union” means the common currency of the 
European Union entered into under the Maastricht treaty dated November 1, 1993, which 
adopted the euro as such currency; 
(g) “
Ecoles Normales
”
means the Borrower’s teachers’ training centers, 
established pursuant to law No.: 2002/029 dated December 31, 2002, published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette No.:  13 dated September 13, 2003, page 549; 
(h) 
“Education Sector” means the sector administered by the Borrower’s 
Ministère de l’Education de Base 1 et de l’Alphabétisation, 
the Borrower’s basic 
education and adult learning ministry; 
(i) “FCFA” 
means 
Franc de l
a
Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
Borrower’s currency; 
(j) 
“First Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in 
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be 
released by the Association on or after the Effective Date; 
(k) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, starting January 1 and ending  
December 31 of each calendar year; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(l) 
“Health Sector” means the sector administered by the Borrower’s 
Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la Lutte contre les Endémies, 
the Borrower’s 
Ministry in charge of health; 
(m) “
Loi de finance
”
means the Borrower’s budget law; 
(n) 
“MTEF” means the Borrower’s Medium-Term Expenditure Framework 
(
cadre des dépenses à moyen terme
)
containing the Borrower’s budgetary provisions for 
the FY 2005, 2006 and 2007, based on and subsequent to a joint Association/Borrower 
budget review in early 2004; 
(o) 
“PEMFAR” means Public Expenditure Management and Financial 
Accountability Review, being carried out jointly by the Borrower and the Association; 
 
(p) 
“Bringing to the Point of  Sale” means that the Borrower has taken the 
following steps: (i) prepared and distributed to interested parties bidding documents for 
the relevant state company; (ii) solicited offers directly, through advertisement(s) in 
appropriate newspapers, or in any other form, under terms and conditions agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association; (iii) evaluated the offers and selected the 
successful bidder(s) (if any) for the purpose of negotiations; and (iv) invited said 
successful bidder(s) (if any) to enter into good faith negotiations; 
(q) 
“Procurement Code” means the Borrower’s Procurement Code, pursuant 
to Ordonnance No.: 2002-007 dated September 18, 2002, published in the Borrower’s 
Official Gazette No. 13 dated September 13, 2003, page 550; 
(r) “
Programme de budget pluriannuel” 
means the Borrower’s multiyear 
budget program; 
(s) 
“Rural Development Sector” means the sector administered by the 
Borrower’s Ministère
 de développement agricole le Ministère des ressources 
animales et le Minsitère de l’hydraulique
,
de
l’environnement et de la lutte contre 
la desertification,
 the Borrower’s Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Water 
and protection of the Environment, respectively;  
(t) “SONIDEP” 
means 
Société Nigérienne des Produits Petroliers
,
the 
Borrower’s petroleum distribution company, established pursuant to 
Ordonnance
 
No.: 77-01, dated January 20, 1977, published in the Official Gazette dated 
February 1, 1977, page 61; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(u) 
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereafter defined) referred to in 
Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be 
released by the Association on or after the date on which the conditions referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement have been met; and 
(v) 
“Tranche” means any of the following: First Tranche and Second 
Tranche. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-seven million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 47,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the Nigerien 
branch of BCEAO a Deposit Account in FCFA on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under 
 
Category (2) of the table under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless the 
amount specified in Category (1) has been withdrawn by the Borrower and the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program;  
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the 
Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after 
such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in 
respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon. The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1
st
.
and November 1
st
.
in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each 
 
May 1
st
 and November 1
st
,
commencing November 1
st
,
2013
and ending May 1
st
,
2043. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 1
st
,
2023 
shall be 
 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall 
be  
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The Currency of the European Union is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedules 2 and 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section  
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued and sent to 
interested parties bidding documents in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association on the acquisition of shares of SONIDEP. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of finance is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance and Economy  
BP 389 
 
Niamey 
 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile:   
 
(227) 73 59 34 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477 
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Joseph Diatta 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Antoinette M. Sayeh 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and
 
Excluded Expenditures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below 
sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account: 
 
Tranche 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
 (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures 
 
to be financed
(1) 
First Tranche 
29,000,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures 
(2) 
Second Tranche 
18,400,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures  
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 
47,400,000 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule 
the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower. 
3. 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
(a)  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
Page  14
-
13
-
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
(whether or not con-
taining tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and gold- 
 
smiths’ or silver- 
Page  15
-
14
-
smiths’  
wares  
 
(including set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
 
(f) 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
(g) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital B of this Agreement 
A. Budget 
Management
1. 
(a) 
Closure, as outlined in paragraph 52 of the Program, of budgetary 
accounts for FY 2002 through issuance of a 
Certificat de Concordance
 and 
submission of said Certificat, dated September  9, 2003, to the Association; and 
(b) 
submission of the budget execution law (
Loi de Règlement
)
for FY 
2001 to the 
Chambre des Comptes
 of the Borrower’s Supreme Court, in 
accordance with 
 
paragraph 52 of the Program (
Borderau  d’envoi
 No.: 0042/SGG/Dl, dated July 
10, 2003). 
2. 
The Borrower’s Minister in charge of finance has issued 
Arrêté
 
No.: 300/MF/E/DGB/DB, dated September 9, 2003, outlining the budget 
preparation process, establishing the sequence and dates of actions as well as the 
role and responsibilities of all ministries, services and other actors involved in the 
budget preparation process, as outlined in paragraph 38 of the Program. 
3. 
The Borrower’s Minister in charge of finance has prepared an outline (
esquisse 
de projet du budget) 
No.: 592/MEF/CAB, dated September 9, 2003, of preliminary 
recurrent budget spending for FY 2004 for the Health Sector, the Education Sector and 
the Rural Development Sector, pursuant to paragraph 38 of the Program. 
4. 
Establishment of the framework for the Cash Allocation Plan (
cadre d’un 
plan de trésorer 
ie)
,
reflecting priority allocations for social and poverty 
alleviation priorities reflected in paragraph 45 of the Program. 
B. Procurement
1. The
 
Borrower’s Minister in charge of finance has issued four 
Arrêtés
 
concerning the implementation of the Procurement Code (
Arrêtés
 Nos.: 
301/MF/E; 302/MF/E; 303/MF/E; and 304/MF/E respectively, all dated 
September 9, 2003). 
C. Regulatory 
Reforms
Page  17
-
16
-
1. 
The Borrower’s 
Comité interministeriel 
has received from the President of 
ARM, pursuant to a transmission letter No.: 38/ARM2003, dated September 8, 
2003, a short list of two eligible candidates for each of the positions of the four 
directors for ARM, namely: 
 
(a) the director in charge of energy; (b) the director in charge of 
telecommunications;  
(c) the director in charge of water; and (d) the director in charge of transportation, 
in conformity with paragraph 54 of the Program. 
D. 
Social Sector Reforms
1. 
The Borrower has adopted Decree No.: 2003-198/PRN/MEB1/A, dated 
July 24, 2003, approving  by-laws (
les statuts) 
providing for the implementation 
of a regulatory framework for the Bor
rower’s 
Ecoles Normales
.
2. 
Circular letter of the Borrower’s Minister in charge of basic education 
 
No.: 58/MEB1/A/DEP, dated June 25, 2003 confirming the commitment of the Borrower to 
recruit 2,702 contractual school teachers for the school year 2003/04. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Schedule 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (iii) of this Agreement 
A.
 
Budget Management
1. 
Adoption, by the Borrower’s Council of Ministers, of an action plan for 
budgetary and financial management for FY 2005, based on the recommendations of the 
PEMFAR mission, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, pursuant to 
paragraph 49 of the Program. 
2. 
The Borrower’s Minister in charge of finance has furnished to the 
Association, a letter, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, 
certifying the execution of the Borrower’s expenditure in the first quarter of  FY 
2004 pursuant to the Cash Allocation Plan, as set forth in paragraph 45 of the 
Program. 
3. 
The Borrower has carried out the following actions set forth in the Arrêté
 
referred to in paragraph A.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) issuance of a 
draft macroeconomic and financial framework containing an outline of FY 2005 
budget allocations, and (b) issuance of a budget circular to line ministries 
providing guidance in the preparation of their respective budget proposals. 
4. 
The Borrower’s 
Loi de finance
 for FY 2004 reflects priorities as set forth in 
paragraph A. 3. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
5. The 
Borrower’s 
Programme de budget pluriannuel
 for the Education Sector, the 
Health Sector and the Rural Development Sector for FY 2005, FY 2006 and FY 2007 
complies with the MTEF for said Fiscal Years, pursuant to paragraph 38 of the Program. 
B. Procurement
1. 
The Borrower has published a Decree, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, establishing its 
Agence de Régulation des Marchés Publics
 pursuant to  
Article 123 of its Procurement Code and Paragraph 41 of the Program. 
C. 
Social Sector Reforms
Page  19
-
18
-
1. 
 The Borrower’s Minister in charge of health has adopted a pilot program, in form 
and substance acceptable to the Association, providing for direct funding of selected health 
districts through performance contracts, pursuant to paragraph 57 of the Program. 
D. Regulatory 
Reforms
1. 
SONIDEP has been brought to the Point of Sale. 
 
