                                         Document of
                                        The WorldBank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                            ReportNo: 26440




                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                            FORA

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR47.4 MILLION

                              (US$65 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLICOF NIGER

                                            FORA

               SECONDPUBLICEXPENDITUREADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                       September 25,2003




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement3
Africa Region

This document has arestricteddistribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                         GOVERNMENT FISCALYEAR
                              January 1 December 3 1
                                        -

                               Currency Equivalents
                         Currency Unit :       CFA Franc (CFAF)
                         US$l             :    CFAF 560 (June 2003)

                           WEIGHT AND MEASURES
                                   Metric system


                     ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB     African Development Bank
ARM      Autorite' de Re'gulation Multi-sectorielle (Multi-sectoral Regulatory Agency)
CADIE    Centre d 'Amortissement de la DetteInte'rieure de 1'Etat (Central Executing
         Institution for Arrears Settlment)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCM      Commission Centrale des Marche's (Central Procurement Commission)
CDN      Cre'dit du Niger (Housing bank)
CET      Common External Tariff
CFAA     Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
COGES    Comite' de Gestion des Etablissements Scolaires (School management
         committees)
CPIA     Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
ECOWAS   Economic Community o f West African States
EFA-FTI  Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
ESW      Economic and Sector Work
EU       European Union
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNP      Gross NationalProduct
GoN      Government o fNiger
HDI      HumanDevelopment Index
H P C    Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries Initiative
IFMS     Integrated Financial Management Information System
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
JSA      Joint Staff Assessment
MAP      Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
MDGs     MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MFIE     MinistryofFinance and Economy
MFPIT    MinistBre de la Fonction Publique et du Travail (Ministryo f Civil Service and
         Labor)
MTEF     Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework
NEPA     Nigerian Electrical Power Authority
NIGELEC  Electricity Supply Company
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NFV      Net Present Value
OFEDES   Deep well-drilling for Water Resources Company

                                                           FOROFFICIAL, USEONLY



        PDDE       Plan Dkcennal de Ddveloppement de 1'Education(10-year development plan for
                   education)
        PEAC       Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
        PER        Public Expenditure Review
        PEMFAR     Public ExpenditureManagement and Financial Accountability Review
        PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
        PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
        PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
        PSIA       Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
        UNDP       UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
        SNE        Socidtd Nationale des Eaux (national water company)
        SONIDEP    Socidtd Nigdrienne de Distribution de Produits Pktroliers (The Petroleum
                   Distribution Firm)
        SONITEL    Socidtd Nigkrienne des Te'ldcommunications (telecommunications utility)
        SSA         Sub-Saharan Africa
        STDs        Sexually Transmitted Diseases
        WAEMU       West African Economic and Monetary Union




              Vice President                             Callisto E.Madavo
              Country Director                           Antoinette M. Sayeh
              Sector ManagerILeadEconomist        :      Cadman A. Mills/HinhDinh
              Task Team Leader                           Emmanuel Pinto Moreira




 This document has a restricteddistributionand may beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout M70rldBank authorization.


                                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                THE REPUBLIC OFNIGER
              SECONDPUBLICEXPENDITUREADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                                            Table of Contents

CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY

 IIntroduction................................................................................................................
  .                                                                                                                              2

 I1. The Economy ............................................................................................................    2
    A. Country Context.......................................................................................................    2
    B. Economic Performance, 1999-2002...........................................................................
    C.    Medium-Term Macroeconomic Projections and FinancingRequirements, 2003-05....6                                          5


 I11. Niger's PRSP andMediumTermReformProgram................................................                                    7
    A. Background.............................................................................................................
    B. Public ExpenditureManagement              ............................................................................... 8
                                                                                                                                 7

                                   ..........................................................................................
    D. Private Sector-Led Growth
    C. Public Service Delivery           .....................................................................................   11
                                                                                                                                 13

 IV. The Proposed Operation........................................................................................              15
    A. BackgroundandRationale for the Credit                  .................................................................  15
    B LessonsLearnedfromPrevious Adjustment Credits
      .                                                                        ................................................. 16
    C. Proposed ReformPrograms           .....................................................................................   16

 V. Credit Features........................................................................................................      26
    A.    Poverty Impact  .................................................................................................... 26
    B.    Linkages with the CAS       ........................................................................................   26
    C.    Benefits and Risks   ...............................................................................................   27
    D.    Collaboration With Other Donors            .........................................................................   28
    E.    Credit Amount and Disbursement Procedures                     ........................................................ 28
    F.    Prior Actions and Tranche Release Conditions ......................................................                    28

Tables

Table 1: Social Development Indicators for Niger and Sub-Saharan Africa.....................                                      3
Table 2: Niger - Key Macroeonomic Indicators, 1999-2002 .........................................
                                                                                        'a                                        6

Charts

Chart 1: Budget ExecutionRates by Line Ministry. 2000-2002
Chart 2: Impact o f Cash Rationing on Key Sectors-Quarterly Allocations for 2002

                                              ..
                                              11



Annexes

Annex 1: Outcomes o fPrevious Adjustment Credits
Annex 2: Voted and Executed Credits to Priority Line Ministries, 2000-2002
Annex 3: 2003 Budget - Capital and RecurrentExpenditures
Annex 4: Niger At A Glance
Annex 5: Niger- Social Indicators
Annex 6: Niger-Key Economic Indicators
Annex 7: BackgroundNote on Cash Budgeting
Annex 8: Letter o f DevelopmentPolicy
Annex 9: Policy Reform Matrix




This operation has beenpreparedby a teamledby EmmanuelPinto Moreira (Country Economist
for Niger) and comprising Douglas Addison (Senior Economist, AFTP4); IanDavies (Consultant);
Emile Finateu (Consultant); Peter Osei (Research Assistant, AFTP3); Peter Siegenthaler
(Economist, Deputy Mission Leader, AFTP3); and Ali Zafar (Research Analyst, AFTP3). Hinh
Dinh(Lead Economist, AFTP3) hasprovidedadvice and guidanceto the team. (Josiane Luchmun
and Maude Jean-Baptiste Program Assistants AFTP3) helpedprepared the document. The Peer
Reviewers are Mrs.Claude Leroy-ThCmeze (Senior Economist, AFTP3) and Mr.Geoffrey Bergen
(Countrv Promam Coordinator. AFCKE).

                        THE REPUBLICOF NIGER
              SECONDPUBLICEXPENDITUREADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                     CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower:              Republic o fNiger.
Beneficiaries:         Population o fNiger.
Amount:                 SDR 47.4 million (US$65 million equivalent).

Terms:                  Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with 10-year grace period.
Description:            The proposed credit i s designed to help implement the
                        Government's economic reform program during 2003-2004 and
                        Niger's January 2002 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
                        by supporting key policy measures aiming at: (i)   consolidating
                        sound macroeconomic and financial policies; (ii)   strengthening
                        the public expenditure management reform program; and (iii)
                        supporting the ongoing implementation o f key social and
                        structural reforms.
Benefits:               The proposed operation i s expected to help the implementation
                        o f  the    poverty   reduction     program    by:   (i)
                                                                               fostering
                        macroeconomic and financial stability; (ii) improving budgeting
                        and public expenditure management and basic service delivery
                        (health, education, and water services); and (iii)improving the
                        environment conducive to private-sector development.
Risks:                  Four main risks could influence the expected outcomes of the
                        proposed credit: (i)domestic political unrest andor external
                        factors, including a shortfall in donor support, adverse climatic
                        conditions, and social and political upheavals in neighboring
                        countries; (ii) weak institutional, managerial and administrative
                        capacity; (iii)slippages in key reforms; and (iv) growth and
                        macroeconomic scenarios may not materialize. These risks are
                        mitigated by the strength of the Government's ownership and
                        commitment to implement the proposed measures, by an active
                        policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government, and by
                        donor's efforts to provide technical assistance to improve
                        capacity-building,
EstimatedDisbursement:  The first tranche: SDR 29.0 million would be released upon
                        Board approval and credit effectiveness (expected late October
                        2003). The second tranche: SDR 18.4 million would be released
                        upon continued satisfactory performance in macroeconomic
                        management and in the overall implementation of the program
                        and the completion o f tranche release conditions.
Implementingagency:     The Ministryo f Finance and Economy.
Project IDNo:           PO69570

                                                    2


I.Introduction

1.       The proposed Second Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC II),two-tranche  a
operation in the amount o f US$ 65 million, would be the sixth adjustment credit to Niger since
1984. The objective o f this credit i s to continue to support the Government's budget management
reform program and its efforts to improve allocation o fpublic expenditures. The operation would
also support implementation o f ongoing reforms in key social sectors designed to improve
delivery o f public service delivery, particularly to the poor. Inaddition, the credit would establish
the foundation for a progressive shift o f the Bank's assistance towards consolidated programmatic
lending.

2.       The proposed credit i s fully consistent with IDA'SCountry Assistance Strategy discussed
by the BoardinJanuary 2003. PEAC I1would address poverty reductionintwo important ways.
First, the Credit would directly contribute to the maintenance o f a stable macroeconomic
framework by helping fill the financing gap associated with implementation o f the PRSP.
Second, each component of the Credit would have an impact on poverty. Reforming budget
management would ensure that the Government's budget priorities are in line with the PRSP
priorities and are reflected in actual cash releases to the line ministries. Improving basic service
delivery would help meet the needs o f the poor and other vulnerable groups. Improving the
environment for private sector would be conducive to private-sector-led growth and thereby
create income-earning opportunities for the poor.

11. The Economy

A. Country Context

3.       Recent Progress. Although Niger remains one o f the poorest countries in Africa, it has
made significant progress on a broad range o f reform areas in the last three years. Most notably,
the Government has stabilized the economy and initiated reforms in budget preparation and
budget execution. Macroeconomic stabilization has been achieved by maintaining fiscal and
monetary discipline and clearing substantial amounts o f the government arrears accumulated in
the 1990's.     In the area of public expenditure management, the adoption of a new budget
nomenclature in 2002 and the increase inbudgetary execution rates inkey social sectors in 2002
stand out as major achievements.         Reforms in social sector policies have been reflected in
improvement o f key indicators such as the growth o f primary school enrollment since 1995 and
enhanced quality and coverage o f basic health care.           Furthermore, there have been major
structural reforms.    Trade i s being liberalized through adoption o f the WAEMU Common
External Tariff in 2000.     Key enterprises have been privatized, including the national water
company, the national telecommunications company and the agency for public works. As a
result, the Government's role in service delivery i s now more focused on key public services such
as water supply, health and education. Taken together, these actions have advanced the reform
program focused on growth and the reduction o f poverty presented in Niger's PRSP adopted in
January 2002.

4.       Social Development and Poverty. Poverty i s pervasive in Niger: real GNP per capita in
2001 was only US$ 180 in 1998. According to the latest household survey (1989-1992) the
income o f nearly two-thirds (63 percent) of the population i s below the poverty line, and one-
third (34 percent) can be considered extremely poor.' Poverty is primarily a rural phenomenon;
 86 percent o f the poor live in rural areas where living conditions are extremely fragile and

 'Estimates are based on 1992-93 data. A new household survey i s expected to be completed by 2004.

                                                     3


 precarious. The UNDP Human Development Index ranked Niger 174thout o f 175 countries in
 2003. The infant mortality rate i s 156 deaths per 1,000 births (See Table 1). The average life
 expectancy at birth i s only 46 years. Barely 60 percent o f the population has access to potable
 water and only 5 percent o f the rural population has access to sanitation facilities. 47 per cent o f
 the population has access to health services, but this does not convey the actual difficulties in
 health care access for large segments o f the population, due to a lack o f sufficient income.

 5.       Demographic and gender disparities are important aspects o f poverty. Forty percent o f
 children are underweight and undersized for their age. Women and girls are the most vulnerable
 groups, with lower incomes level, the higher illiteracy rate and limited access to educational and
 health services. Primary school enrollment rates, for example, are 42 percent for all students yet
 only 33 percent for girls (See Table 1).


                 Table 1: Social Development Indicators for Niger and Sub-Saharan Africa

                                                                   Niger              SSA Average
                                                              1990       2001        1990   I  2001
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                       191         156        110      105
Total fertility rate                                           7.6         7.2        6.1      5.1
Population growth (%)                                          3.0         3.1        2.9      2.3
  ife expectancy at birth                                      45          46          50       46
          (% ofpopulation aged 15 and above)                   89           84         50       38
                 enrollment (% school age population)          29         42*          74       86
  Female                                                       21          33*         67       80
Access to safe water                                           53           59         53       58
Access to sanitation ("hrural population)                                    5                  45
 Source: World Bank 2003, World Development Indicators (2001 or most recent estimate)
 * 2002 data

 6.       Economic Context. Niger i s a landlocked Sahelian country located on the southwestem
 edge o f the Sahara Desert. Only 13 percent o f the land area i s under crops and only 1.5 percent o f
 the land under crops i s irrigated. The agricultural sector, which generates roughly 40 percent o f
 GDP, is highly vulnerable to periodic drought and progressive desertification.            The services
 sector accounts for 43 percent o f GDP, while only 17 percent i s producedby the industrial sector.
 Miningmade a significant contributioninthe late 1970s when there was a briefboom inuranium
 prices. Despite the collapse o f the global uranium market, uranium remains a major export
 commodity, along with cattle and onions.

 7.       Niger's economic structure has made it difficult for the authorities to create a robust tax
 base. The fiscal revenue effort has been quite weak: as revenues ranged between 9 and 11
 percent o f GDP during 1999-2003, compared to the SSA average (excluding South Africa and
 Nigeria) o f 19 percent. The small proportion o f the population living in urban areas makes it
 difficult to collect income taxes and indirect taxes while the relatively low volume o f registered
 trade limitsthe amount o f trade taxes that can be collected.

 8.       Niger i s highly dependent on foreign grants and loans, which have on average been
 roughly equal to domestic fiscal revenues between 1999 and 2002. Because o f domestic political
 instability, external financing has been volatile, ranging from a low o f 4.5 percent o f GDP in

                                                   4


1999 to a high o f 17.9 per cent in 2000. The high level o f external financing has resulted in
external debt obligations exceeding Niger's ability to pay. Between 1999 and 2002, the stock o f
external debt outstanding averaged the equivalent o f 84 percent o f GDP and debt service due was
equivalent to an average o f 46 percent o f government revenues (See Table 2).

9.       Inthe 1990s, overwhelming development needs and periodic adverse shocks, combined
with a low revenue effort and uncertain external financing, resulted in an unsustainable fiscal
situation.    As a result, payments arrears were accumulated during most o f the 1990's.
Expenditures have had to be rationed on a day-by-day basis depending on availability o f cash.
Efficient spending, reflecting careful planning and implementation, has been more the exception
than the rule, although this i s slowly beginning to change as a result o f recent improvements in
public expenditure management. (See section 111.B. below).

10.      Political Context. The military junta that had assumed power over after the April 1999
coup handed power over to a civilian Government, following orderly presidential and legislative
elections in December 1999. The resulting return o f domestic stability and democracy has
facilitated the implementation of a wide range o f economic and structural reforms. These have
been supported by a series o f stabilization and structural adjustment programs, backed by the
Bank, the IMF and other donors.

11.      Regional Context. Political and economic instability in Niger's two major regional
trading partners, CBte d'Ivoire and Nigeria, constitute risks for income growth and poverty
reduction. However the impact o f the recent political crisis in CBte d'Ivoire on Niger appears to
have been relatively minor. Progress since January 2003 inthe resolution o f the crisis has already
contributed to an improvement in economic and trade relations within the region and alleviated
the fears o f a region-wide recession. The unstable political and economic situation in Nigeria
strongly affects the demand for Nigerien exports, especially cattle. Niger also depends on Nigeria
for most o f its electricity and for petrol.

12.      Niger i s a member o f the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) and,
as such, shares a common currency (the CFA franc, CFAF) and a central bank with seven other
West African countries. Strict limits on borrowing from the regional central bank mean that
Niger can only finance its fiscal deficits through foreign and domestic borrowing. The impact o f
regional integration has largely been positive. Niger benefited from the January 1994 CFAF
devaluation, though perhaps to a lesser extent than the more diversified coastal countries.
However, the devaluation restored some competitiveness to the economy and growth has
averaged 3.2 percent a year since 1994. Regional integration and WAEMU membership has also
led to the implementation o f trade liberalization policies, through the adoption o f a common
external tariff (CET) in2000 and the progressive harmonization o f regulations inother areas such
as public finance, which should help spur trade and growth. The WAEMU CET agreement
includes a compensatory facility to address this. However, there are more than CFAF 6.0 billion
(US$10.7 million) in compensation for the implementation o f the CET, that are yet to be
transferred to Niger.' Part o f the delay inpayments has been due to the conflict inCBte d'Ivoire,
which normally finances roughly 40 percent o f the WAEMU budget.



'    These budgetary transfers are recorded inrevenue and amount to about 0.5 percent o f GDP inthe 2003
    program. Initiated in December 1999 and set by a formula, they compensate for the revenue losses
    resulting from the implementation o f the common external tariff. They will be phased out over the
    period 2003-06.

                                                 5


B. EconomicPerformance,1999-2002

13,      The macroeconomic situation deteriorated dramatically after the April 1999 coup andreal
GDP that year fell by 0.6 percent. On an accrual basis, the fiscal deficit increased to 5.2 percent
o f GDP including grants (See Table 2). The Government also accumulated large external and
domestic arrears. However, the civilian leadership elected in December 1999 moved quickly to
implement a stabilization and structural reform program developed in conjunction with the Bank
and the IMF, and approved by the National Assembly in April 2000. This led to an improvement
in macroeconomic management and restored stability facilitated economic recovery. The
Government also tackled some urgent issues, including full and timely payment o f salaries, the
settlement o f outstanding domestic arrears and adoption o f a plan for the avoidance o f new
domestic payment arrears. A revised Budget Law was enacted in May 2000 and the Government
took measures to improve fiscal discipline and accountability, including the auditing o f
government accounts by the state's external auditor, the Chambre des Comptes.

14.      The reform measures undertaken by the new Government were supported by a PRGF
arrangement with the Fund for 2000-2003, a Bank Public Finance Recovery Credit and a
subsequent Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit. The ground was also prepared for HIPC debt
relief, and the decision point was reached inDecember 2000.
15.      The impact o f the reform program has been positive. Fiscal revenues rose from 8.6
percent o f gross domestic product (GDP) in 2000 to 9.3 percent in 2001 and to 10.6 percent in
2002. Current budget expenditures, which represented 12.4 percent o f GDP in 1999, stabilized at
around 11percent o f GDP in2000-2002. The wage bill, one o f the largest components o f current
expenditures, was reduced from 4.6 percent o f GDP in 1999 to 3.7 percent in 2002. Economic
growth was positive in 2001 and 2002 (7.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively) after two years o f
recession, essentially driven by the return o f more favorable climatic conditions and improved
economic and financial management.        Inflation has been on a downward trend: inflation as
measured by consumer prices, declined from 4.7 percent in December 2000 to 3.2 percent in
December 2001 to 2.7 percent in December 2002. As o f July 2003, inflation stood at 1.0%.
Gross domestic savings as a share o f GDP increased to 4.2 percent o f GDP in 2002 from 2.6
percent in 1999. The increase in domestic savings, combined with growing foreign savings,
financed an increase in investment from 10.2 percent o f GDP in 1999 to 12.8 percent of GDP in
2002. Official foreign exchange reserves tripled relative to imports between 1999 and 2002.
This should allow Niger better absorb externally generated balance of payments shocks. After
two full years o f execution o f the 2000-2003 program, the Fifth PRGF Review by the IMF
concluded that Niger's economic and financial management during this period was appropriate
for macroeconomic stability and poverty reduction.

                                                     6



                       Table 2: Niger Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1999-2002
                                        -
                                                           999    2000     2001      2002   Average
                                                                        (Percent Change)
  ea1 Gross Domestic Product at market prices               -0.6    -1.4      7.1      3.0    2.0
  erms o f trade (deterioration -)                           9.3    -12.8     9.1      -1.0   1.2
                                                                        (Percent o f GDP)
Gross domestic investment                                   10.2    10.8      11.5     12.8   11.3
                                                             2.6     3.3      4.1      4.2    3.6
       nsavings (Imports less exports)                       7.6     7.5      7.4      8.6    7.8
                                                            12.6    12.7      13.5     14.8   13.4
                                                             8.8     8.6      9.3      10.6   9.3
                                                             3.8     4.1      4.2      4.2    4.1
    a1expenditure (accruals basis)                          17.9    16.2      16.7     17.1   17.0
    Current expenditure                                     12.4    11.2      11.0     10.7   11.3
    Capital expenditures                                     5.5     5.0      5.7      6.4    5.7
    era11fiscal balance (accrual basis)                     -5.2     -3.5     -3.2     -2.3   -3.5
                                                             4.0     -8.7     -1.2     -2.3   -2.1
     Identified External Financing                           0.7     13.8     3.7      4.0    5.5
     Domestic Financing                                      0.6     -1.6     0.7      0.7    0.1
     rnal current account (including official grants)       -6.8     -5.8     -4.5     -6.1   -5.8
        f externaldebt (including IMF)                      83.8    90.3      87.0     74.4   83.9
        1Debt service due (Percent o f revenue)             42.0    51.1      50.2     43.9   46.8
        fficial reserves (months o f imports)                1.1     2.1      2.8      3.1    2.3
I


     Sources: World Bank and IMFstaff estimates.


16.       Much of the growth in investment has been the result o f a fiscal realignment that
permitted an increase in government capital expenditures from 5.5 percent o f GDP Tn 1999 and
5.0 percent o f GDP in2000 to 6.4 percent in2002. The increase incapital expenditures has been
financed partly by a reduction inthe recurrent expenditures, partly by gains inrevenues and partly
by reductions in external debt obligations, largely due to the HIPC relief in 2000 (see Table 2).
External debt service due fell from roughly 50 percent o f government revenues in 1999-2001 to
44 percent in2002.

C. Medium-TermMacroeconomicProjections and FinancingRequirements, 2003-05

 17.      The base case scenario o f the PRSP targets an average real GDP growth rate of 4 percent
per annum over 2003-05. This would require raising the average level o f public investment in
2003-05 by three percentage points o f GDP per year from the estimated level in 2002. This
increase could be financed by a rise in revenues by an average o f 1.5 percent o f GDP and an
increase in the overall budget deficit equivalent to 1.5 percent of GDP. Debt relief, project
financing and, to a lesser extent, domestic borrowing would be the main sources o f financing o f
the budget deficit. The residual financing gap, estimated atjust under 4 percent o f GDP per year,
i s expected to be financed by the donor community. Covering this financing gap i s critical to the
sustainability o f the Nigerien fiscal program. Expenditure cuts are the only viable short-run

                                                   7


alternative: new revenue measures are already ambitious and cannot be credibly increased much
beyond the current targets inthe short-run.

18.      At a 4 percent growth rate the estimated average current account deficit would be 8.5
percent o f GDP. Total financing requirements for 2003-05, from all sources, would be CFA 595
billion or almost CFA 200 billion annually. Two-thirds o f this, CFA 396 billion, i s already inthe
pipeline. The bulk o f this financing would come from project loans and grants, and HIPC relief
and IMF purchases. A residual financing gap o f CFA 200 billion or just under 4 percent o f GDP
per year would remain. The proposed credit o fUS$ 65 million would cover 17 percent o f this.

19.      Besides the World Bank, Niger's major sources for budgetary support are the EU, the
IMF, and the Afi-ican Development Bank. Under the PRGF, the IMF has had a three-year
program equivalent to U S $81 million (SDR 59.2 million), which was fully disbursed as o f July
2003. A new three-year PRGF i s planned to be launched in 2004. The European Union, under
the NinthFED signed in March 2002, should provide budget assistance in grant form o f about
US$ 103 million (equivalent o f Euros 90 million) over 2003-2007. Finally, the African
Development Bank i s also planning to increase its financial assistance. Based on statements made
by these major donors, it is estimated that total budget support to Niger for 2003 and 2004 will
amount to CFA 138 billion (including World Bank). Inlight o f this, the authorities are confident
that the residual financing gap for 2003-04 will be covered through budgetary support.

111. Niger's PRSPandMediumTermReformProgram

A. Background

20.      Since 2000, the Govemment has been implementing policy reforms aimed at fostering
economic growth and reducing poverty. An Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)
was issued in April 1999. This I-PRSP enabled the Government to access a Fund PRGF. A
national workshop attended by representatives o f all segments o f society helped with preparation
o f the PRSP and contributed to the approval, inJanuary 2002, o f the final PRSP. This document,
presented in February 2002 to the Boards o f Directors o f the World Bank and IMF, was also the
focus o f a donor forum held in June 2003 in Niamey. At the conclusion o f this meeting, all the
partners represented pledged their commitment to the objectives o f the PRSP.              The PRSP
confirms the Government's commitment to reducing the proportion o f the population living in
poverty by half by 2015.       It is based on four pillars: (i) creation o f a macroeconomic
                                                                  the
environment that promotes strong and sustainable economic growth; (ii)         the development o f the
productive sectors, especially in rural areas, to reduce vulnerability and increase income
generation, (iii)the improvement o f access o f the poor to quality social services, (iv) the
strengthening o f institutional and individual capacity for good governances3 At the June 2003
donor forum, the donors endorsed the PRSP and agreed to use the as the strategic basis for their
development assistance to Niger. The Bank expressed support to PRSP objectives in its new
CAS, approved by the Board inJanuary 2003.4 The strategic focus o f the CAS i s directly derived
from the four pillars o f the PRSP. The main objective o f Bank activity will be to support the
implementation and refinement o f the PRSP, in particular by helping Niger mitigate the many
risks and uncertainties it faces.

21.      The Government has translated the PRSP into a medium term reform program for 2003
and 2004, focusing on: (i)   improved management of public resources; (ii) coverage and
                                                                                 greater

  Niger: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint Staff Assessment, Report No. 23483-NIR.
4 Niger: Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 25203-NIR.

                                                   8


better quality o f basic social services; and (iii)an improved environment for private sector
activity.   The reform program builds on the economic, financial and social reform policies
implemented between 2000 and 2002 with support from the international financial community.
PEAC Iwas the Bank's major instrument for supporting this reform. The following sections (111.
B to 111. D.) describe the principal achievements of the reform policies and key outstanding
issues.

22.      The medium term reform program highlights four key policy actions for improved
management of public resources: (i)improving budget preparation, (ii)             enhancing budgetary
management and controls, and strengthening regulations for and oversight o f public procurement;
(iii)strengthening accounting, monitoring and evaluating o f budget execution; and (iv) speeding
closure o f budget accounts after the end o f each fiscal year, permitting more expeditious and
thorough auditing. Inorder to accomplish this, the reformprogram includes measures to improve
human resource management in the public sector and modernizing the public administration,
including increased computerization.

23.      The reform program calls for the Government to allocate and release for expenditure
budgetary resources necessary to improve the coverage and quality o f basic social services. The
program also calls for continuing the policy o f recruiting locally contracted teachers and health
personnel and deploying them to underserved areas. The authorities also intend to increase
managerial autonomy for health care facilities and schools. In order to deal with the highrate o f
population growth, the Government i s committed to undertaking an outreach campaign on
demographic issues emphasizing their economic, social and health-related implications.

24.      To improve the environment for private sector activity, the reform program calls for
implementing the privatization agenda, including the privatization o f SONIDEP and the
establishment o f the MRA to improve the regulatory fi-amework for private sector development.
Furthermore, it contains measures aimed at strengthening infrastructure critical for private sector
development, especially transport, and the financial sector.

25.      Niger's main development partners are strongly committed to support the implementation
o f the reform program. Each donor's support program would reflect its comparative advantage.
PEAC I1would be the main instrumento f Bank support o f the program. It focuses on the reform
measures specified in section N o f this report and summarized inthe policy matrix in Annex 2.
The CAS notes that other elements o f the reform program would be supported by ongoing or
forthcoming Bank operations, and by and other donors, especially the IMF, EU, and AfDB.


B. PublicExpenditureManagement

26.      The complexity o f the expenditure circuit renders the oversight and monitoring o f budget
 execution difficult or even impossible; the computerized chain o f expenditure i s restricted to the
 authorizing officer alone, to the exclusion o f the other parties involved (e.g., credit administrators,
 financial comptrollers, Treasury, etc.). The large accumulation o f payment arrears i s an obstacle
to efficient management o f public finances. Insufficient attention i s paid to the cost-effectiveness
 criterion inthe awarding o f public procurement contracts and there are serious inadequacies inthe
handling of expenditures at the regional level.

 27.     Progress in Budgetary Management. Because of the gap between Niger's urgent
budgetaryneeds and its low and unpredictable revenues, it i s critical that resources be allocated to
 the best uses and be used as efficiently as possible. For this reason, great emphasis has been, and

                                                 9


will continue to be, placed on public expenditure management. Key reforms and results from
2000 to early 2003 are summarized below:

28.     Progress in Budgetpreparation. There have been a number o f significant improvements
in budget preparations, the most important ones being the adoption of a new budgetary
nomenclature and its use for preparation o f the Budget Law 2003. The new nomenclature makes
possible to merge the general budget with the investment budget, allowing the Government to
estimate the full cost o f its programs.

29.     Achievements in budget implementation.            The two key achievements in budget
implementation have been thesignificant increase
in the execution rates (actual expenditures as a               CHART1: BUDGIXEXECUTION RATES
proportion o f budgeted expenditures) in 2002 and                BY LINEMINISTRY 2000-2002 (Yo)
the clearance o f substantial amounts of arrears in      120.0,                                           I
line with targets set by an arrears settlement plan.     1000

Budget performance          in 2002     was  broadly
satisfactory, as most recurrent and increased            40 0
substantially from those in 2001 (Chart 1). Fund         20 0
releases enabled the Education Ministry to spend          0 0 4                                           I
90% o f its budget during 2000-2002. The Health                   2000
Ministry's average was slightly over 70 percent.
The execution rate for the total recurrent budget in                      Rural Dev. --+*p-.cEquipment

2002 was 71 percent, compared to 80 percent in           Source: GON (2003)

2001 and 61 percent in2000.                                                                                    1



30.     The Government aims to streamline the budget preparation and execution processes over
the next several years by adopting and implementingprogram budgeting for sectoral ministries in
stages.   A program budget approach would enable ministries to clearly identify priorities,
relationships between expenditures, programs, intended results and sectoral objectives and
provide a starting point for shifting the notion o f performance away from procedural compliance
to achievement o f results. A systematic multi-annual approach to budgeting through the use o f an
instrument such as the MTEF i s a prerequisite for the effective implementation and use o f
program budgets.      The responsibilities and accountabilities o f the Ministry o f Finance and
Economy and the sector ministries will be clearly defined and the budget preparation process to
allow for the necessary discussions.

31.      The Government aims at gradually achieving complete computerization o f budgetary
management.      An Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMS) has been
introduced that enables tracking expenditures fi-om the commitment to the payment stage by
connecting the budget directorate and the Treasury. In addition, accounting operations at the
Treasury have been strengthened by introducing a new chart o f public accounts and software
consistent with the new budget nomenclature in 2003. This will help identify further measures
needed to simplify and streamline processing and approval o f expenditures (the expenditure
chain). Diagnostic work has been conducted and a working group has been set up to develop an
action plan for doing this. Finally, strengthening ex-post controls has continued, as evidenced by
the timely closure o f budgetary accounts for 2001 and the review o f budget execution for fiscal
year 1997 by the State's external auditor.

 32.     Appreciable progress has been made in improving budget management, much of it
 supported by PEAC I.However, many important challenges remain:

                                                     10


    0   L o w mobilization o f domestic revenue remains a key constraint on fiscal sustainability
        and budgetary execution and has left Niger highly dependent on external financial
        support, the timingand volume o f which has been unpredictable.

    0   Resource allocation and use are still characterized by poor planning and limited links
        between policy making and budgeting. There i s also an absence o f systematic,
        transparent resource allocation based on poverty-reduction priorities and a multi-year
        (medium term) expenditure framework.

    0   Sectoral ministries' involvement inbudget formulation and control over budget execution
        i s limited.

    0   Cash management practices have significantly impeded delivery o f priority public
        services.

    0   Budget expenditure controls remain weak, accounting systems inadequate, and the
        expenditure chain cumbersome.

    0   Expenditure monitoring and evaluation are limited and ineffective, and there have not
        beenregular expenditure reviews.

33.     Achievements under the HIPC Initiative.Niger's performance under HIPC has been
mixed. An assessment undertaken for the March 2002-IMF Board Paper on HIPC Expenditure
Tracking found Niger to have met only three o f 15 benchmarks, one o f the lowest scores o f all
HIPC countries. Major gaps were noted in budget formulation, execution, and reporting.
However, in a 2003 follow up-study, Niger was found to be one o f 14 o f a total o f 24 countries
that had initiated or implemented more than 80 percent of the measures in its action plan.5 The
studies noted the key weaknesses in Niger's PEM system: (i)                deficiencies in identification o f
poverty-reducing expenditure and the absence o f a reporting mechanism for such expenditures;
(ii) paucity ofinformation onquarterly budgetexecution, particularlyfor the healthand
    the
education sectors; (iii)a poor external audit system; and (iv) the absence o f a clear medium-term
perspective integrated into the budget formulation process. The country has, however, begun to
improve budget classification, strengthen audits, and develop a database on social spending and
budgeted allocations for health and education. While the implementation o f these measures will
help Niger track the flow o f HIPC assistance and allow donors and governments to have a
quantitative assessment o f the impact o f debt relief on social indicators, significant work needs to
be done inall stages o fthe budgetprocess.

34.      Strengthening Human Resource Management. The Government has taken several
measures to modernize the civil service and to control its size, albeit with only limited effect so
far. These measures include the preparation o f an integrated program for modernization o f the
civil service (PIMAN), the introduction o f a promotion system based on merit6 and the
establishment o f an integrated database to facilitate the coordinatedmanagement o f personnel and
payroll. The decentralized recruitment o f health sector workers and primary school teachers on a
contractual basis has allowed increasing staff in rural areas at reduced cost without enlarging the
civil service.

35.      RationalizingProcurement.The reform o f public procurement was initiated in 2002
following the recommendations o f the Bank's Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)


     "Update o n Implementation of Action Plans to Strengthen Capacity o f HIPC's to Track Poverty-
    Reducing Public Spending," was prepared by the IMF and the World Bank on March 7, 2003.
6   The system based on merit is still at an early stage and i s not fully operational.

                                                 11


completed by the Bank in 1999. This reform aims at increasing transparency and accountability
in the awarding of public contracts by ensuring equal treatment of all bidders and facilitating
sound competition among them. A new Code o f Public Procurement was approved in 2002 and
regulatory texts have been issued. The new code i s consistent with WAEMU guidelines and
governs all public contracts, including those not directly funded by budgetary resources, such as
procurement by parastatal agencies.       The Government has also created a reform steering
committee and a coordinating unit, as well as the restructuring o f the central procurement
commission (Commission Centrale des MarchCs - CCM). Inaddition, the Government will take
steps to establish and ensure the regular functioning o f the new entity responsible for regulating
public procurement. Finally, in order to enhance transparency inthe area o f public procurement,
monthly information bulletins, particularly on procurement, bidding and contracting procedures,
will be published. The next steps inimplementing the procurement reform would be (i)       making
the new procurement code effective, (ii)   building capacity inprocurement management and (iii)
puttinginplace new institutional arrangements for procurement at central anddecentralizedlevel.


C. Public Service Delivery

36.      Key Achievements in Education. After two decades o f stagnation, Niger's education
system has been improving since the mid-l990s, when the Government embarked on reforms
addressing supply side constraints to schooling. Primary enrollment has increased, with the gross
enrollment rate from 27 per cent in 1995 to 42 percent in 2002. Reform efforts have been
intensified inrecent years, assisted by IDA investment lending and PEAC I.The reformprogram
supported by PEAC I led to increased budget appropriations for education and the
institutionalization o f a hiring program o f contractual    ("voluntary") teachers (VE) to meet
teacher shortages. The voluntary teacher program has led to an increased availability o f teachers
at a relatively low cost. To help ensure quality, VE recruits who do not graduate from the teacher
training institutes (EM) have to undergo at least 30 days o f teacher training and VEs have to be
visited by four inspection missions per year.       The reform program supported by PEAC I
addressed the issue o f teaching quality in general by strengthening pre-service teacher training
and adopting a new framework law governing teacher training. Inaddition, the program provides
support for educational inspection missions to elementary schools and to pedagogical outreach
units. A pilot programo f decentralized block grants at the school levelhas also been initiatedand
accurate and up-to-date statistical information yearbooks on the educational system has been
produced.

 37.     In2002, the Government introduced a 10-year development plan for education (PDDE)
 consistent with the education strategy presented inthe PRSP. The objectives o f this plan include:
 (i)expanded accessto basic education for poorpeople, (ii)improvededucation quality and
 efficiency, (iii)
                 improved use o f existing resources, and (iv) increased capacity and empowerment
 o f local structures and communities.    The PRSP and the PDDE have set targets that, while
 ambitious, were below the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). However, these targets
 have been revised upward in Niger's proposal for the Education for All "Fast Track" initiative
 (EFA-FTI),which has beenbroadly supportedbythe donor community. The proposaloutlines an
 approach to accelerate progress towards meeting the MDG o f ensuring completion o f primary
 education for every girl and boy by 2015, and estimates the requiredresources. The performance
 indicators for the first phase of the reform program (2002-2007) are realistic, given Niger's
 present limited financial and managerial capacity.

                                                  12



38.     Despite improvements, challenges remaininNiger's basic education sector:
        Niger still has one o f the world's lowest participation in primary education and its
        education sector i s still characterized by poor coverage and wide disparities in enrollment
        between girls and boys and between urban and rural children.
        Internal efficiency o f the education system i s still low, as repetition i s widespread,
        especially at the end o f the primary and secondary cycles.
        External efficiency i s also a matter o f concern as many students who complete tertiary
        education fail to find employment.

39.     Key Achievements in Health. In the 1990s, the Government undertook an ambitious
reform program in the health sector, with an emphasis on reducing supply side constraints to
health care. The implementation o f the reform program resulted in an improvement o f both
quality and coverage o f basic health care. Coverage increased significantly: the share o f people
living within five kilometers o f a health care increased from 32 percent in 1994 to 47 percent in
2000. The availability o f essential drugs in health facilities also improved as a result o f the
implementation o f a law on cost recovery and increased logistical and managerial capacity.

40.     A new round o f health sector reforms was launched with the formulation o f the health
sector strategy for the PRSP. The Government developed a reform program supported by PEAC
I, whichapilotprogramofdecentralizedrecruitmentofcontractualhealthworkerswas
  through
launched in 2002 to improve staffing o f local health centers. A first round o f recruitment o f 477
healthworkers was completed inJune 2002.

41.     A document on Strategic Orientations for Health Sector Development, covering 2001-
2011was elaborated on the basis o f the PRSP, and adopted by the Government inthe second half
o f 2002. The main objective o f these strategic orientations i s to increase access for all people to
good quality health care at all levels o f the system. It aims to raise health coverage from 48
percent in 2000 to 80 percent by 2011.           A second objective is a significant reduction of
communicable diseases. The strategy emphasizes improvements in the quality o f services and
promotion o f new approaches to health care, especially prevention. Inorder to operationalize this
strategy, the Government has initiated preparation o f a detailed 5-year development plan.

42.     These achievements notwithstanding, health conditions in Niger remain precarious and
the performance o f the health system remains unsatisfactory. In 2001, life expectancy at birth
was only 46 years, reflecting a level o f infant mortality (156 per lOOO), which i s among the
highest inthe region. Linked to this are high levels o f malnutrition (39.6% o f children under five
are malnourished), high fertility rates (7.2), and highmaternal mortality (700 deaths per 100,000
births). The main factors behind Niger's poor health outcomes are a high prevalence o f
communicable and parasitic diseases, poor nutrition, inadequate access to safe water and
sanitation, and low levels o f literacy and education, especially for women.

43.      HIVIAIDS. A survey conducted in 2002 estimated a HNprevalence rate o f below one
percent. This would make Niger the sub-Saharan country least affected by HIV/AIDS. However,
the survey results also showed that the prevalence o f H I V / A D S was increasing. Giventhe high
prevalence o f sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), high risk behavior and low institutional
capacity in responding to HIVIAIDS, the Government considers it a major risk to human and
economic development. After a lengthy process o f strategy development, a National Strategic
Framework for the Fight against HIV/AIDS was adopted for 2002-2006.                    Niger's main
development partners, including the World Bank have participatedinpreparation o f the Strategic

                                                   13


Framework. It includes a comprehensive multisectoral strategy, a new institutional mechanism
for implementation, and the improved coordination o f all involved partners. The Government's
strategy includes: (i) strengthening and expanding prevention activities, (ii) up treatment
                                                                                      scaling
and care activities, (iii)enhancing mitigation o f the impact o f HIViAIDS on households and
communities and (iv) building national capacity for management and implementation o f the
National Strategic Framework.

44.      Achievementsinthe Water Sector.The Government initiated an ambitious water sector
reform program in 2001, aimed at extending water supply infi-astructure to the poorest urban and
peri-urban areas where the poor pay substantially higher prices for drinking water than those in
better-off areas. The program, which i s supported by the Bank's Water Sector Project (WSP),
also addresses the needs o f rural communities. After two years o f reform, progress can be seen in
increase access to drinking water, efficiency o f operations and cost recovery. The increase in
access to water has particularly benefited low-income groups. The reformprogram i s expected to
provide access to drinking water to about 230,000 additional people in urban areas by 2006.
Finally, partly due to construction o f drinking water supply facilities under the DCcennie
Intemationale de L'Eau Potable et de 1'Assainissement (DIEPA), about 52% o f the rural
population i s now served.


D. PrivateSector-LedGrowth

45.      The PRSP focuses on creating the foundation for private-sector-led growth. It considers
the role o f the private sector in delivery o f public services, the regulatory environment and the
role o f the financial sector.     It notes the importance o f improving basic infrastructure7 to
facilitating growth o f output and employment and increasing access to, affordability and
sustainability o f basic services by the poor.

46.      Progress of Privatization.Performance of state enterprises has in general been poor.
State owned companies have been mismanaged and have been a budgetary burden. They have
been unable to maintain, let alone expand services. In 1995, the Government adopted a policy to
resolve these issues through privatization and regulatory reform. This was supported by a World
Bank credit in 1998 (Report No. 18362-UNI.), but progress was slow and key reform components
remain uncompleted.         The new Government reinvigorated the privatization program and
operations have been completed for the state dairy, cement and textile companies.                     The
telecommunications company, SONITEL, has been privatized through the sale o f 51 percent o f
its capital.   In November 2000, Niger awarded two cellular licenses through international
competitive bidding. As a result, the number o f telephone subscribers has nearly doubled. A ten-
year leasing contract was agreed upon in January 2001 for the production, transport and
distribution o f safe water in the 51 centers previously managed by the state water utility.
Privatizationo f the public works equipment service has also been privatized.

47.      Two key enterprises, the electricity distribution company, NIGELEC, and the petrol
distribution firm, SONIDEP, currently await privatization. Privatization o f NIGELEC i s proving
to be difficult, as the company needs approximately US$lOO million for rehabilitation and
expansion. It appears unlikely that the bidders would be willing to take on this burden. There are


7    According to the African DevelopmentIndicators, only 59 percent of the populationhas access to safe
     water, only 7 percent of the population has access to electricity (electricity consumptionper capita i s
     only 27 kwh compared to an average of 118 for SSA and 762 for North Africa; and only two out of
     1,000 people have a telephone line comparedto an average of 14 inSSA and 72 inNorthAfrica.

                                                      14


regulatory issues as well that need to resolved, particularly the fundamental issue o f tariff setting.
The heavy dependence o f Niger on the Nigerian Electrical Power Authority (NEPA), its main
provider o f electricity for the last 37 years, i s an important factor in the NIGELECprivatization'.
NEPA is a possible buyer, but its record o f service and financial management i s mixed and is
itself likely to be privatizedinthe next year or two.

48.       Solicitation o f expressions o f interest by potential bidders for SONIDEP was launched in
July 2003. However, privatization o f SONIDEP requires resolution o f its outstanding debts, the
valuation o f the enterprise and the rules governing the new ownership structure. There are also
concerns about the regulatory environment and its impact on the value o f the firm. Relatedto this
are two issues that could affect the Government's ability to tax a privatized SONIDEP: first, the
Government must avoid promising any tax exemptions; and second, there i s a significant riskthat
inexpensive smuggled petrol from Nigeria could crowd out legitimate petrol imports by
SONIDEP.

49.       Regulatory Achievements. In a small market such as Niger, with limited scope for
competition, regulatory oversight i s crucial to protect consumers and to enhance service delivery.
At present, regulation o f competition, dispute resolution o f disputes between enterprises are
governed by ad hoc decisions o f temporary regulatory units. The establishment o f a multi-
sectoral regulatory agency would facilitate economy-wide regulatory oversight, which i s
particularly neededwhen and if large utilities are privatized. A multi-sectoral regulatory agency
could also facilitate the privatization o f NIGELEC and SONIDEP, as the agency would clarify
their valuation and strengthen confidence in the stability o f their operating environment. The
Government has begun to establish such an agency. A consultant has been hired to help design
the new multisectoralregulatory agency (MRA) and inMarch 2003 a president was chosen. The
consultant has provided a draft business plan, terms o f reference for the MRA, an organizational
structure and job descriptions for four sectoral directors. A short list o f two eligible candidates
for each o f the positions o f the four directors has been transmitted to the Government in
September 2003. An international expert will serve as advisor to the President o f the MRA for the
few first months, and help deal with complaints. The Bank has recommended that the MRA be
twinned with a regulatory authority inan industrial country, to help buildits managerial capacity.

50.       Financial Sector Achievements.             Niger's financial system i s underdeveloped and
shallow. Commercial banks dominate, holding 84 percent o f the sector's assetsag Four banks
hold 90 percent of the banking sector' assets and deposits and their loan portfolios are highly
concentrated. As o f December 2001, the 20 largest borrowers accounted for 38 percent o f all
bank lending. The rest of the financial sector i s weak. The insurance sector i s relatively small.
Micro finance institutions are numerous but account only for 2% o f total assets o f the financial
sector and are o f dubious financial health. The postal savings bank has not been operative since
 1992. The social security institution faces severe financial difficulties. The inter-bank money
market i s embryonic and stock exchange activity i s at very low levels.

51.       As a policy response to the weak state o f Niger's financial sector, the Govemment
initiated a series o f reforms in 2002, including the restructuring o f the insurance sector and two
banks. Audits of micro-finance institutions were launched and the restructuring o f the postal
financial services has started, both with technical assistance from the World Bank in2003. At the
regional level, a new banking law was adopted in 1989, the regional Banking Commission was
'    Niger imports almost all of its electricity from Nigeria. The government negotiates the level o f
     electricity to be imported fromthe (NEPA) and the tariff to be charged.
9    Or 62 percent ifassets for social security are included.

                                                   15


established in 1990 and a new regional insurance code was introduced.                New prudential
regulations for micro-finance institutionswere enacted.

52.      The International Bank o f Afi-ica, which had been under strict oversight, has been put on
a sound financial footing. The Commercial Bank o f Niger, which was under provisional
administration for over a year, was recapitalized in 2002, with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
agreeing to carry the Government's share for a period o f two years, during which time private
Nigerien partners would be sought.         An agreement was reached in 2003 with the former
stockholders o f the Niger Islamic Trade and Investment Bank to absorb past losses and boost its
capitalizationto the prudential level.

53.      Important constraints to financial sector development remain. Because o f the heavy
demand for credit by the government, which absorbs 40 percent o f bank credit, the banks are
often unable to meet private sector requirements. Inaddition, operating costs are high, the range
o f financial products i s narrow, a large proportion o f portfolios are non-performing, the system
for the resolution o f creditorhorrower disputes i s weak and there i s little or no competition
among banks. The housing bank (Credit du Niger) i s ineffective and i s a potentially serious
budgetary liability. The geographical reach o f the financial sector i s limited because o f the
unsatisfactory condition o f micro-finance institutions, the closure o f the postal savings bank, and
the poor performance o f postal checking services. In addition, the legal framework for rural
lending i s unclear and the use o f guarantees involving land i s problematic.



IV. The Proposed Operation

A. BackgroundandRationalefor the Credit

54.      Sustained policy reforms are required ifNiger i s to meet its development challenges.
Section I11highlighted three key areas o f concern: public expenditure management, public service
delivery and private sector-led growth. These are briefly summarized here. Improvements in
public expenditure management are a highpriority. First, efficient allocation o f expenditure and
effective use o f public resources are critical for economic growth and poverty reduction. Second,
Niger's low resource base and weak mobilization o f domestic revenue suggest the need for a
comprehensive and permanent effort to rationalize public expenditure and achieve fiscal
discipline.    Third, although some progress has been made, Niger's public expenditure
management does not meet the basic criteria o f an efficient system: predictability, accountability
and transparency.      Critical issues remain unresolved in the delivery o f education and health
services, including fiscal sustainability and the capacity to plan and implement expenditures.
Reforms are needed to accelerate the private sector development, essential for employment
creation and poverty alleviation.         T h i s means completion o f privatization agenda, the
establishment o f a better regulatory environment, strengthening the financial systems, and
targeted investment physical infrastructure.

55.      Macroeconomic projections demonstrate that the achievement o f a growth rate sufficient
to raise per capita income would require substantial external assistance. Assistance needs to be
provided on a sustained and more predictable basis to maintain the momentum o f reform. Indeed,
the first quarter o f the year 2003 has demonstrated the fragility o f public finances. Lower than
forecast revenues and delays in external assistance have led the Government to bypass normal
budget processes creatinguncertainty inseveral line ministries about the budgetary resources they
are likely to receive.

                                                    16


56.      The proposed two-tranche public expenditure adjustment credit o f US$65 million would
provide a substantial part o f the financing necessary to support and facilitate continuation o f
reforms in key areas: (i)efficient use o f public resources, (ii)    better public service delivery and
(iii) more supportive, growth-oriented regulatory environment for the private sector.
     a                                                                                              As
outlined inthe CAS, these reforms should pave the way for eventual programmatic lending by the
Bank.

B. LessonsLearnedfromPreviousAdjustment Credits

57.      The design o f the proposed credit has been significantly influenced by the lessons learned
from earlier adjustment credits both in its conceptual framework and in its operational
modalities.10 The first lesson i s the importance o f Government ownership o f the reform program.
Second, commitment i s necessary but not sufficient for success: capacity must be built to design
and implement policies and programs. While this i s being done, reforms must be tailored to the
country's present institutional capacity. Reform o f public expenditure management i s difficult,
requiring sustained effort and strengthened institutional capacity.         The proposed credit, like
PEAC Itherefore aims at continued capacity buildinginkey ministries including the Ministry o f
Finance and Economy, the Ministry o f Education, the Ministry o f Health and the Ministry o f
Rural Development. Third, adjustment operations require a sound system o f monitoring and
evaluation. This i s an important thread woven throughout the reform measures included in the
credit.  Fourth, higher growth rates will only emerge if macroeconomic policies are sound,
longer-term institutional improvements are implemented, and investment in social and economic
infrastructure i s improved. The proposed credit would therefore complement institution building
with improvements in the regulatory and financial environment to facilitate private sector-led
growth, encourage greater private sector participation in infrastructure services, and support
further improvements in service delivery.

58.      Expenditure reform must be accompanied by measures to increase domestic resource
mobilization. The low level o f domestic revenues, currently 10.6% o f GDP, has been partially
compensated by external aid, but its timing and level have been unpredictable. Moreover high
levels o f aid cannot be sustained indefinitely. While the proposed credit does not include support
for revenue enhancing measures, the issue i s being addressed in IMF programs that support both
revenue measures and provide technical assistance inthat regard.

C. ProposedReformPrograms

C.l. StrengtheningPublicExpenditureManagement

59.      Strategy and Objectives. Public expenditure management reforms will focus on budget
preparation, execution, reporting as well as oversight systems and will aim at: (i)          improving
predictability, accountability and transparency in public spending in order to restore the
credibility o f the voted budget; (ii)
                                     improving inter-sectoral allocations o f expenditure inline with
the PRSP priorities, and (iii)improving efficiency inthe use o f public resources. Inthe near-term,
the proposed measures would strengthen discipline in public finance management and establish
theprerequisitesfor and orderly and effective publicfinance system.

60.      Two o f the principal constraints to the development o f a sound public expenditure system
in Niger have been the low revenue mobilization by the central authorities and the frequent


lo  See, for example, the recent OED draft report Proiect Performance Assessment Report for Niger. See
    also Annex 3 for a summary o f outputs o f previous adjustment credits.

                                                      17


fluctuations in receipts. Due to a variety o f domestic and external factors, Niger's revenue/GDP
ratio has remained significantly below those o f almost all sub-Saharan countries. A variety o f
external events have adversely affected the level and predictability o f revenue collections. These
include economic and political developments in neighboring CBte d'Ivoire and Nigeria and the
resulting periodic closing o f border trade, and oil price fluctuations. Moreover, fluctuations in
world commodity prices affect import duties and export receipts.

61.        The current framework for public financial management does not adequately address the
long-run objectives o f poverty reduction and social development. Niger has problems involving
both budget preparation and execution. Preparation i s unsatisfactory, as line ministries budgets
do not identify core activities consistent with stated objectives, but instead submit a general
resource request for consideration by the Finance Ministry. In addition, the absence o f a multi-
annual expenditure framework renders annual budgeting problematic.                    Budget execution i s
complicated by the fact that when revenues are inadequate to cover budgeted ministry
expenditures and debt service, ad hoc rationing measures are resorted to that do not allocate funds
in a transparent and predictable manner. The current rationing system results in unpredictable
fluctuations inquarterly cash releases to priority line ministries, making it hard for these agencies
to develop and implement their annual programs. For example, fluctuations in monthly cash
releases can translate into inadequate funds for school meals, cutbacks in availability or delays in
road building.

62.        Challenges in Budget Preparation. The absence o f a well-defined framework for
budget preparation i s a major barrier to proper budget preparation inNiger. There i s n o formal
document that delineates steps, expectations, and mandates o f different agencies involved in the
formulation of the budget. Annual budget instructions are general and, in the absence of an
MTEF and clear sectoral envelopes, do not stipulate spending limits. There is no explicit
requirement to focus budget preparation in line with poverty-reduction and policy priorities.
Consequently, line ministries are not required to exercise discipline in projecting their resource
requirements and they prepare their budget submissions based on prior year voted credits plus an
estimate o f additional expenditures. Thus, the system has an inbuilt bias towards ministries
overestimating their requirements'        '.  Preparation o f the budget typically consists o f costing
exercises for salaries, operational activities and investments12. In addition, the current system
creates an imbalance between the Ministry o f Finance and Economy and the line ministries. In
fact, ministriesdo not see themselves as having a relevant role inbudget preparationand get little
opportunity to discuss their budget submissions. Insufficient time i s allowed for the discussions
o f priorities between line mini~tries'~and the MF/E. The situation i s further complicated by the
absence o f adequate information o f the line Ministries on their status o f execution their current
year budgets.    14




     For example both the ministries o f health and o f education are preparing their 2004 budget by adding
     20% to their 2003 voted budget.
     Instructions o f the Ministry o f Finance and Economy for preparation o f the 2004 budget require budget
     submissions to consist o f three one page tables, one for each category o f expenditure (operating
     expenditure, salaries and investment expenditure) that list only planned costs with no reference to
     service-related results. Each category o f expenditure has its own preparation process and coordination
     between them i s inadequate, increasing the risko fpoor budget execution.
     For example ministries had only about 10 days after receiving budget instructions for 2004 to submit
     their budgets, and each was given three hours to discuss their budget with the Ministry o f Finance and
     Economy.
     For example, at the time o f 2004 budget preparation the Ministry o f Education did not know the state
     o f its budget execution for 2003.

63.      Proposed Solution. The objectives for 2004-2006 are to: (i)        produce a credible budget
and take gradual but firm steps towards buildingthe usefulness o f the budget as an instrument for
resource allocation and (ii) protect core poverty oriented activities o f line ministries in times o f
shortage o f funds. Accomplishment o f these objectives would be furthered by the progressive
implementation program budgeting that would enable ministries to identify relationships between
expenditures, programs, intended results and sectoral objectives, and a Medium-Term
ExpenditureFramework (MTEF)that would establish a realistic revenue envelope.

64.      Short-term measures to improve budgetpreparation during PEAC II.Specific short-term
measures proposed to improve budget preparation include:


   0    Identification by line ministries o f a set o f core activities in their budget proposals and
        estimation o f the minimum amount o f funds required to execute these activities and the
        appropriate timingo f the release o f funds.

   0    Compilation o f the list o f core activities. An inter-ministerial committee will produce the
        cash allocation plan described inthe section on cash management.

   0    Development o f alternate budget scenarios by the Ministry o f Finance and Economy.
        Beginning in2004, budget preparation would contain three scenarios based on alternative
        revenue projections: (i)   a base case scenario based on the most recent available actual
        expenditures (ii) a low case scenario that ensures full financing o f core activities; and (iii)
        highcase scenario that allows for increasedfundingo fcore andnon-core activities.

   0    Increase collaboration between and eventual integration o f the ministerial units in charge
        o f preparing the recurrent budget and those responsible for the preparation o f the
        investment budget.

   0    Continue and expand training o f program directors and other key ministerial staff in
        budget preparation.

65.      Proposed medium to long term measures to improve budget preparation.                 Program
budgeting should be adopted by sectoral ministries and implemented in stages. The preparation
process would clearly identify the responsibilities and accountability of the Ministry o f Finance
and Economy and the sector ministries and would structure the budget preparation process to
provide adequate time for discussions between the Ministry o f Finance and Economy and sectoral
ministries. A systematic multi-year approach to government budgeting such as an MTEF would
facilitate implementation and use o f program budgets. In summary, in order to initiate program-
budgeting the government should:

        Confirm the commitment to implement program budgeting as a basis for budget
        preparation and begin implementation with the ministries o f education, health, and rural
        development by 2004.

   0    Establish a small multi-ministrytechnical team to coordinate capacity-building efforts for
        implementation o f program budgets and to develop a three-year capacity buildingplan to
        ensure that program budgeting approach can be extended to all ministries.


66.      ImprovingBudget Execution. Budget execution suffers from inadequate management
and control by sector ministries.        The present cash rationing system results in a lack o f
predictability and transparency in allocations to ministries and can adversely affect the
implementation o f priority programs. Lack o f systematic and regular information about ongoing
budget execution also reduces ministries' accountability. Expenditure authorization (the

                                                   19


expenditure chain) involves complicated procedures and i s often circumvented by ad-hoc
expenditure processing, such as payment without prior commitments. Procedures and internal
controls should be simplified and the system made consistent with WAEMU standards. Another
obstacle to the proper functioning of the expenditure controls i s that expenditures o f
deconcentrated units are not recorded or monitored under the existing system. Funds go directly
from the Ministry o f Finance and Economy to these units which effect expenditures directly, i.e.
without central ministry involvement. The absence o f information by sectoral ministries about
these expenditures undermines their ability to manage programs effectively.

67.      The Government intends to improve the cash management system during 2004-06 to
increase control by sectoral ministries over their budgets. It will begin regular production and
circulation o f standardized information on budget execution. The IFMS will be extended from
the MF/E to line ministries and deconcentrated services. This would provide systematic and
regular information on budget execution to all ministries. This reporting system should gradually
be expanded to include information on outcomes, as part o f a transition towards performance-
based budgeting. Budgeting o f salaries, operational costs and investments should be coordinated
and integrated to reduce the fragmentation o f budget execution. All releases and commitments
involving sector ministry budgets, including those that are directly undertaken by the MF/E and
deconcentrated units should be reported and measures should be taken to improve reporting on
investment expenditure financed by donors, not currently recordedinthe existing system.

68.      A working group is currently preparing a plan to strengthen and simplify expenditure
processing and internal controls.     Improved expenditure management should ensure adequate
control and swift regularization o f expenditures executed through exceptional procedures.
Measures should be introduced to record and control delegated credits executed by
deconcentrated services. Expenditures executed by deconcentrated services are not recorded or
controlled in the regular system but are executed as delegated credits (credits dClCguCs), with
funds going directly from the MF/E to the services who in turn effect expenditures directly
without central ministry involvement. These delegated credits later have to be "regularized" (i.e.
reconciled within the regular budget processes). The absence o f information by sector ministries
on the use o f these funds undermines their ability to manage programs effectively. Because ex-
post regularization i s completed months after the end o f the fiscal year, timely and accurate
information on the ongoing budget i s not available. At the end o f December 2002, o f FCFA 8
billion, or more than 4 percent o f total budget, remained unregularized.

69.      Measures to Strengthen Budget Execution

     0   Expand the reach o f IFMS by ensuring the exchange o f financial information between
         local treasury agencies and sector ministries and deconcentrated services so that the latter
         can better manage their budgets.

     0   Prepare and adopt guidelines for preparation and circulation o f regular budget execution
         reports to ensure that managers understand budget management guidelines.

     0   Establish a mechanism to provide timely information to ministries about budget releases
         and commitments so that they can better manage their programs.

     0   Finalize and implement an action plan for streamliningthe expenditure chain and making
         it consistent with WAEMU standards.

     0   Connect local Treasury offices to the IFMS.

                                                  20


70.     Reformingthe Cash Budget System Cashbudgeting                lSas currently practiced inNiger
has had a negative effect on delivery o f services to the poor. While it has been partially successful
in controlling the budget deficit and avoiding an
accumulation o f new domestic arrears, the lack
o f transparency and predictability in cash                  CHART 2: IMPACT OF CASH RATIONING
                                                                ON KEYSECTORS     - QUARTWLY
allocations   has   seriously    limited the    line         ALLOCATIONS FOR2002 (CFA BILLION)
ministries' capacity to execute their budgets
according to PRSP and sectoral priorities. The
original design o f the system provided for
decision-making on cash allocations to be
supervised by an inter-ministerial committee and
determined by formal, transparent criteria. The
system was to be based on a rolling cash
management mechanism, managed by a Treasury
Committee.      However,      in practice,     cash
management has been largely left to the                        Education       Health     RuralDev.
discretion o f a group o f officials in the Ministry
o f Finance and Economy. Furthermore, while
priority has been given to unavoidable expenditures, including payment o f salaries, and debt
service and outlays o f priority sectors (Education, Health, Transports, and Rural Development,
the National Assembly, and the Cabinet o f the Prime Minister), inpractice social sectors are only
partially exempted from the cash rationing.

71.      Cash rationing has resulted in unpredictable fluctuations in quarterly cash releases to
priority line ministries. Chart 2 shows the changes incash allocations to key line ministries over
the year 2002 and documents the particularly wide variations inquarterly allocations to the health
ministry. This has translated into disruptions insupply of essential medicines andinterruptions of
vaccinationprograms. Cashrationing has been particularly severe inthe first six months o f 2003.
As o f endJune 2003, the educationandhealthministries hadreceivedcash releases amountingto
only 33 percent and 18.5 percent, respectively o f their total voted budget for 2003. Inthe case o f
education, these cash releases were largely used to pay salaries, leaving little for other recurrent
expenditures. As a result, some school cafeterias did not receive funding and could no longer
feed students, with the result that many children stopped attending school.

72.      To improve transparency and predictability o f budget releases, the Government should
produce a cash allocation plan based on a realistic budget that would determine quarterly cash
allocations for each ministry. This cash allocation plan would aim at bringing - on a quarterly
basis - total expenditures in line with projected revenues, while ensuring adequate funding for
core poverty reducing expenditures identified at the budget preparation stage. The
implementation o f the plan would be supervised by an Inter-Ministerial Committee, in
coordination with the Treasury Committee responsible for the cash management mechanism.
Based on revisedrevenue estimates and reports on budget execution inthe current year, the Inter-
Ministerial Committee would revise the cash allocation plan on a quarterly basis. The cash
allocation plan and its quarterly revisions would be published in Treasury Circulars in order to
inform all spending agencies o f their projectedcash allocations.




l5  Niger's cash management system originated in 1998 as a response o f policymakers to uncertain
    extemal donor assistance and poor domestic resource mobilization, as well as the asymmetry between
    government revenues and expenditures. It has since been the principal instrument o fbudget execution.

                                                 21


73.      From 2004 onwards, the cash management system would be reinforced by the
introduction o f an MTEF. The MTEF would contribute to a more predictable and transparent
environment for expenditure decisions, including the establishment o f appropriate periodicity o f
disbursement o f funds to ministries. Its introduction would change the planning function from an
open-ended needs-driven costing approach to a sectoral resource allocation exercise bound by
realistic economic and financial projections and based on poverty-reduction priorities and targets.
The MTEF would highlight the tradeoffs between competing objectives, and provide a more
suitable context for implementing an improved approach to cash management. The MTEFwould
also provide a platform for discussions with donors in order to ensure greater predictability o f
external resources.

74.      Measures to Strengthen CashManagement

    0   Adopt a cash allocation plan before the beginning o f the new fiscal year that determines
        quarterly allocations by ministries on the basis o f the voted budget and projectedrevenue
        flows. The cash allocation plan should specify core expenditures for which funding will
        be ensured and set criteria for allocation o fremaining funds.

    0   Reconstitute and make operational the Inter-Ministerial Committee to supervise the
        implementation o f the cash allocationplan.

    0   Revise the cash allocation plan quarterly taking into account revised revenue projections.
        Information from quarterly reports on budget execution should also be considered inthese
        revisions.

    0   Publishthe cash allocationplan and its quarterly revisions inTreasury Circulars.

    0   Design and adopt a plan to prepare an MTEF to begin with the 2005 budget and issue a
        decree defining the roles and responsibilities for the production o f a MTEF.

75.      Challenges of Budgetary Accountability. The ability o f the "Chambre des Comptes"
(the audit office o f the Supreme Court) and the "Commission des Finances," (the parliamentary
oversight body) to fulfill their oversight missions i s limited by inadequate human and financial
resources, the absence o f a connection between the two entities despite the role stipulated inthe
Constitution, the lack o f adequate financial information from the MF/E, and lack o f guidance on
the rules governing financial transactions (as well as unauthorized transfers o f funds across
budget categories). The inadequate resources o f the "Chambre des Comptes" do not allow it to
audit the accounts o f the entire Government. Instead, it focuses on the General Treasury, leaving
out administrative accounts, local collectivities, and deconcentrated services.

76.      Independent oversight o f government financial practices i s vital for a functioning public
financial system. For Niger, ensuring adequate oversight will require substantial institutional
capacity-building to ensure the quantity and quality o f professional staff, as well as the additional
financial resources required for adding and training the staff needed to do thejob.

77.      Measures to Strengthen Budgetary Accountability:


    0   Institute a capacity building program for the "Chambre des Comptes" and the
        "Commission de Finance" so that they can fulfill their oversight functions, and allocate
        funds inthe 2004 budget requiredby the Chamber o f Accounts to carry out audits o f the
        Government accounts.

    0   Prepare and close the accounts for FY2002 so that the Chamber o f Accounts can audit
        them expeditiously.

                                                  22


78.      Challenges and Proposed Solutions in Human Resource Management. Niger's
reform o f the management o f human resources i s focused on bringingthe wage bill under control
and modernizing the civil service by introducing performance incentives. As a first step, data on
the size and composition o f the civil service need to be strengthened.      The Government has
devised and introduced an integrated database, but it has not yet been connected to the Ministry
o f Civil Service and Labor (MFP/T) or to the line ministries. Such a connection would provide
them with data on personnel and payroll, needed for accurate budget preparation and execution.
Furthermore, a census o f the civil service i s still needed.        Finally, the experience with
decentralized recruitment o f contractual health and education personnel practice inthe education
and health sectors should be reviewed to determine its effectiveness and sustainability.
79.      Measures to Strengthen Human Resource Management:

     0   Integrate the database, first connecting the MFP/T and later the line ministries and
         conduct a census o f civil service and contractual employees in order to have a complete
         picture o f humanresources inthe public sector.

     0   Review experience with decentralized recruitment o f contractual personnel, assess its
         effectiveness and sustainability and decide ifit shouldbe extended to other sectors,

80.      Challengesand ProposedSolutions inProcurement. The reformmeasures adopted by
the Government address the major weaknesses                 o f the public procurement system.
Notwithstanding the measures already taken, procurement i s still inefficient, and lacks
transparency, and competition for contracts i s inadequate. These shortcomings are exacerbated
by lax enforcement o f existing procedures and a general lack o f capacity for procurement
management. The Government now needs to follow up on the measures already taken; adopt
legal texts, institute government-wide training and develop a manual o f procedures and standard
bidding documents for goods, works and services. Information on procedures, open bids and
awarded contracts should be published. Management o f public contracts should be decentralized
while a central commission takes on the supervisory role. In addition, ex-post review o f the
procurement system shouldbe institutionalized.

81.      Measures to Consolidate Procurement Reforms:

     0   Adopt legal texts, develop a manual o f procedures and standard bidding documents and
         conduct a training program focused on the implementation o fthe code.

     0   Introduce regular publication o f bulletins that provide key information about procedures,
         open bids and contracts awarded.

     0   Create and operationalize decentralized and central unitsin charge o fprocurement

     0   Convert the central procurement commission into a regulatory agency.

     0   Establish a National Procurement Board for external oversight o fprocurement.

82.      ReducingDomestic Arrears. The large stock of domestic arrears has been a budgetary
burden and has damaged the Government's credibility. The arrears, which amounted to CFAF
295 billion in September, 2002, consisted primarily o f government debt to private suppliers,
commercial banks, salaried workers, and public agencies. An arrears settlement plan was adopted
in 2001. Its objectives for 2001 and 2002 were met as arrears were reduced by CFAF 35.5
billion. A further reduction o f CFAF 18 billion i s scheduled for 2003, including payment o f two
months' wage arrears totaling CFAF 6.7 billion. The Government needs to continue to reduce

                                                    23


domestic arrears, and will need to strengthen CADIE, the central executing agency for debt
reduction.  16 17



83.      Measuresfor Arrears Reduction:

    0    Strengthen institutional capacity o f CADIE.

    0    Continue to reduce domestic arrears according to targets set by the settlement plan.

C.2. Strengthening Social Sector Reforms for Improved Service Delivery

84.      PEAC I1will continue Bank support for the implementation o f policy reforms in basic
education and health with the objective o f strengthening service delivery to the poor.

85.      Challenges in Education. Backed by the commitment o f the donor community to
provide additional resources to Niger's basic education sector under the Fast Track Initiative, the
Government has raised its targets for the sector. This translates into a need for substantial
additional resources. The successful implementation o f the reform program depends strongly on
the viability and efficiency o f the contractual teacher program.         The Government needs to
continue recruitment o f contractual teachers. However, it must maintain their salary levels at the
lower end o f the scale. Any upward movement in compensation would have a strong impact on
the cost of the reform efforts and would require a downward revision o f the sector goals.

86.      Major sector expenditure reviews should be undertaken periodically to examine the
adequacy, efficiency and equity o f expenditures. These would provide information on financial
and physical dimensions of budget execution, as well as on its impact on access to and quality o f
services. Expenditure reviews should be supplemented by expenditure tracking and beneficiary
assessments.

87.      PEAC I1will supplement Bank support for education and will be closely coordinated
with other external assistance under the Fast Track Initiative. It would continue Bank support o f
the implementation o f the Government's primary education reform program, which has been
designed to stimulate demand, further expand enrollment and improve the quality o f primary
schooling. A previous IDA hybrid (adjustment and investment) operation that had financed
expenditures in the education sector, notably the salaries and training o f voluntary teachers,
closed at the end o f 2001. In 2002, the Government financed the recurrent portion o f these
expenditures with its own budgetary resources. Although a new investment project (Niger Basic
Education SIL) i s expected to become effective in the third quarter o f 2003, the Government
intends to continue financing core elements o f the reform program through the national budget,
notably the contractual teacher program. The following measures will be undertaken in basic
education, with support o fPEAC 11:

         The Govemment will        (1)ensure sufficient budget appropriations in2004 and 2005,
         including allocating at least 50 percent o f the total education budget for basic education,
         (ii) theshareofHIPCresourcesearmarkedforprimaryeducationfrom20
             increase
         percent to 40 percent, and (iii)  seek commitments from the donor community to provide
         additional resources to the sector.

l6  CADIE (Centre d'Amortissement de la Dette IntCrieure de 1'Etat) was created as the central executing
    institution for arrears settlement.
l7  The Government intends to pursue the reduction in domestic arrears in 2003 and allocated CFAF18
    billionto this end. See IMF, Memorandum o f Economic and Financial Policies (MEFP) o f March 28,
    2003.

                                                   24


     0   Continue recruitment o f contractual teachers in school years 200312004 and 200412005
         and ensure adequate budget allocations; but closely monitor costs and quality to assess its
         effectiveness and sustainability. It will enhance the quality o f teaching by contractual
         teachers through pre-and in-service training and inspections.

     0   Make the framework law for pre-service training effective by completing and adopting
         the texts governing its application.

     0   Strengthen sector budget preparation, execution and reporting, as detailed insection C.1.

     0   Continue and expand delegation o f authority and resources to school management
         committees (COGES) and provide sufficient budgetary resources in 2003 and 2004.

88.      Challenges in Health. By adopting its Strategic Orientations for Health Sector
Development, the Government has made a commitment to substantially improving the health o f
its people by 2011. This strategy needs now to be translated into a detailed development plan,
which would constitute the basis for medium-term budgeting in the sector18. Implementation o f
the plan and the achievement o f the MDGs in health will require substantial amounts of
financing. This development plan would specify sector targets, closely reflectingrelationshipthe
MDGs and the requiredresource inputsandcosts. The plan should address the problem of lack at               .
all levels of trained health workers, propose a program to solve the problem and a strategy for
sustainable financing. In the interim, the Government should (i))             ensure sufficient budget
appropriations for the health sector in the 2004 budget, (ii)        mobilize funding from the donor
community and (iii)    increase cost recovery taking into account that basic health care must not
take up too large a share o f the income o fpoor households.

89.      Concentration o f qualified health professionals in the urban center i s major constraint to
adequate service delivery in less densely populated areas. T o deal with this immediate problem,
the Government will recruit 1168 contractual health workers in2003 and 536 in2004. However,
a long-term solution to the lack o f qualified staff will require a comprehensive reform o f health
worker formation, recruitment and deployment. The development plan should contain a clear
human resource strategy and deal with the question o f the future role of contractual health
workers.

90.      An IDA investment credit supporting the health sector will close at the end o f calendar
2003 and a follow-up operation i s being launched. In 2004, the Government intends to finance
implementation o f critical components o f the development plan through the national budget. This
will provide an opportunity for the Government to demonstrate its capacity and commitment to
programmatic lending.

91.      Proposed Policy Measures. To meet the challenges described above, the following policy
measures are proposed:

     0   Adopt a health sector development plan that includes sector targets, required inputsand
         resources and a strategy to ensure adequate and sustainable financing.

     0   Formulate a strategy for recruitment, training and deployment o f staff to the field and
         decide on the future o f the contractual health worker program.

     0   Introduce a mediumterm budget consistent with the development plan and drawing on
         recently introduced district healthplans to strengthen programming fi-om the 2005 budget
         onwards.

     The Ministry o f Public Health (MPH) has started preparations for a 5-Year Development Plan that will
     cover 2003-2007.

                                                  25


    0   Prepare for an expansion o f decentralized budget programming and execution, by
        strengthening planning and management capacity at the district level and by increased
        deployment o f qualified staff to the field.

    0   Begin direct fundingto health districts on a pilot basis in2004, introducingperformance
        contracts between the central government and selected health districts.

92.     Challenges and Measures in HIV/AIDS. H N / A I D S constitutes a major risk to human
and economic development in Niger.          The implementation o f the Government's strategic
operation, supported by the Bank's forthcoming MAP project and by other donors i s therefore
imperative. Inthe context o f H N / A I D S prevention efforts, the AIDS I11Program has also been
developed.

93.     Challenges in the Water Sector. Niger has made substantial progress in increasing the
availability o f safe drinking water, but major challenges remain for reaching appropriate levels
and quality o f services. The average daily water production i s insufficient to meet demand.

94.     Proposed Measures inthe Water Sector:

    0   Develop a programto achieve the MDGs and introduce a program budgeting for the
        sector.

    0   Mobilize additional donor financing from and improve coordination o f donor activity in
        the sector.

C.3. FacilitatingPrivate-Sector Led Growth

95.     The Government will continue its efforts to strengthen the private sector environment
through reforms focused on privatization, improving regulatory capacity and strengthening the
financial sector.

96.     Privatization.     The momentum o f the privatization program would be restored by
conclusion o f the SONIDEP and NIGELEC transactions. Irreversibleprogress inprivatization o f
SONIDEP, as evidenced by issuance o f calls for bids was a prerequisite to PEAC I1 Board
presentation.

97.     Regulatory Capacity. If key regulatory issues are to be resolved, the multi-sectoral
regulatory agency (MRA) must be made operational with at least core o f competent technical
staff in place. It needs to be legally empowered to regulate the large utility markets (water,
power, telecommunications and petrol importation and distribution).            For this purpose, the
Government will adopt a business plan for the MRAby September 2003. This plan would clarify
the responsibilities and accountabilities o f the President and directors o f MRA. The plan would
also specify measures to ensure transparency in the regulatory process including open hearings,
public records, public access and a continuous process o f consultation o f interested parties.
Regulatory authority i s to be given exclusively to the ARM and ministerial offices previously
undertaking such activity should either be transferred to the ARM or their activities discontinued.

98.     One o f the first tasks the new MRA should undertake i s a study of the impact o f
privatization on the water, telecom and road construction sectors. This report would assess the
level o f service delivery before and after privatization and identify key regulatory reforms
(including minimum standards, entry, exit and legal recourse by both producer and consumers)
that could further improve water, power and telecommunication services.

                                                  26


99.      Financial Sector. The Government has adopted a reform program to strengthen the
financial sector focusing on (i)improving the business environment within which financial
institutions operate, (ii)
                         restructuringthe banking sector (iii)   broadening access by the population
by further development o f micro-finance and postal financial services, (iv) social sector reform,
and (v) capacity building. The Bank will support this program with a technical assistance credit,
currently under preparation. Therefore, PEAC I1does not contain any specific measure in this
area.

V. Credit Features

A. Poverty Impact

100.     Absence o f recent data on and analysis o f poverty in Niger make it difficult to design
policies aimed directly at reducing poverty. The authorities are aware o f this and are taking
measures in the context o f refining and implementing the PRSP to improve its understanding o f
the extent and causes o f poverty. The proposed credit would support reforms intendedto lead to a
reduction of poverty. First, the credit will lead to improved public expenditure management,
which in turn should have a positive impact on health and education services to poor through: (i)
increasing the cost-effectiveness of government operations; (ii)     channeling more resources into
economically and socially important government ministries and services; and (iii)improving
delivery o f vital economic and social services to the poor. Second, PEAC I1will contribute to the
maintenance o f a stable macroeconomic framework and sustained growth. Third, privatization o f
state-owned enterprises and the establishment o f an operational MRA will improve the efficiency
o f the public sector, and help the development o f the private sector. Over the medium to long
term, these reforms should improve the prospects for growth o f real income and employment
opportunities, which would contribute to povertyreduction.

B. Linkages with the CAS

101.     PEAC I1plays a key role inthe implementation o f the current CAS for Niger. The credit
would contribute to the realization o f the thematic goals o f the CAS by: (i)       promoting good
governance by improving transparency and accountability o f budget management and increasing
public sector efficiency and capacity; (ii)  ensuring fiscal and macroeconomic stability, which i s
instrumental in facilitating sustained and robust growth over the medium to long term; (iii)
supporting reforms aimed at strengthening the provision o f education and health services; and by
(iv) supporting efforts to improve the environment for private sector development.

 102.    PEAC I1would facilitate the transition to consolidated programmatic lending via Poverty
Reduction Support Credits (PRSC) as proposed inthe CAS. This transition i s a key strategic goal
o f the CAS, which identifies three areas where progress i s needed before the country i s ready for
consolidated programmatic lending: ( i)the gradual introduction of program budgeting on the
basis o f comprehensive sector strategies; (ii) a consolidationo f fiduciary and budget management
reforms; and, (iii) intensified efforts to build institutional and individual capacity. The PEAC II-
supported reform program would play a major role in all these areas. First, it would enhance
budget preparation and execution processes, thereby strengthening the link between public
expenditure and the objectives set by the PRSP and sectoral reform programs. The introduction
o f a program-budget approach in key sectors will be o f particular importance in this regard.
Second, it would help strengthen accountability in public expenditure, procurement and financial
management. Third, it would advance the structural and social reform agendas and strengthenthe
policy framework for sustainable growth and poverty reduction.

                                                  27


103.     The CAS identifies a set o f benchmarks for measuring progress toward consolidated
programmatic lending via PRSCs".         To enable monitoring o f outcomes o f reforms supported by
PEAC 11,the following subset o f CAS benchmarks has been selected:
         Adequate budget allocations for PRSP priority sectors (education, health, rural
         development, transport and water) and satisfactory execution rates, as evidenced by
         respecting the priorities set by the cash allocation plan
         Significant improvement in macro-economic performance, as evidenced by the non-
         accumulation o f payment arrears and attainment o f PRGFmacroeconomic benchmarks
         Satisfactory implementation o f public finance reforms, as evidenced by adoption and
         implementation o f the action plan based on the PEMFARrecommendations
         Satisfactory implementation o f procurement reforms, as evidenced by the adoption o f
         application texts for the procurement code and subsequent regular publication o f
         information bulletins on procurement.
         Satisfactory implementation o f privatization and regulatory reforms within agreed
         timeframe, as evidenced by the completion o f the SONIDEP privatization and the
         establishment of a fully operational MRA.
Progress against these selected benchmarks will be measured at the time o f the release o f the
second tranche and o f the preparation o f the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

104.     PEAC 11's contribution to the transition to a PRSC approach will be reinforced by
ongoing and forthcoming analytical work (PEMFAR, Poverty Assessment, Development Policy
Review and Poverty and Social Impact Analysis), which will provide the knowledge base for an
eventual PRSC.       Through a recently approved PHRD grant focusing on public expenditure
management, the Bank will help the Government build the capacity required for programmatic
lending. The Bank will continue to work closely with other donors that are conducting capacity
buildingefforts inthis area, notably the EU.

C. Benefitsand Risks

105.     The primary benefit o f this credit would be the advancement o f critical policy reforms in
the budget management. These reforms should help accelerate economic growth and improve the
impact o f public expenditure on the poor. Improvements in cash budgeting should help increase
the efficiency and equity of public expenditures while enhancing fiscal discipline.

106.     There are several risks associated with this credit. The reform program could falter as a
result o f domestic political unrest leading to policy reversals and/or as a result o f external factors
such as shortfalls in donor support, social and political upheavals in neighboring countries, or
adverse climatic conditions.

107.     These risks are mitigated by a number o f factors.          First, the commitment o f this
Government to the proposed reforms under the PEAC Iand now PEAC I1has been reaffirmed by
the highest level o f govemment. In addition, a number o f significant up-front actions have been
taken. Second, many o f the measures supported by this credit and previous adjustment operations
have strengthened the capacity o f the Nigerien economy to withstand external shocks such as the
crisis in C6te d'Ivoire. Third, the Government i s aware o f the importance to future support o f
external donors o f the success o f its reform efforts.

l 9 Seetable 7 (pg. 24): CAS Base and HighCase Triggers

                                                   28


108.      An additionalrisk is that the reforms it supports maynot be completed, either because of
opposition from vested interests or because the sustained effort and long time needed to
implement and see the benefits o f reforms.

109.      This risk is mitigatedby strong political commitment, by the active policy dialogue that
the Bank has conducted with the Government since 2000, and by the fact that much o f future
Bank support may depend on the success o f the reform effort. Inaddition, most o f these reforms,
especially in budgetary management and in the social sectors, were initiated by the Government
and ownership o f and commitment to the proposed actions has been demonstrated.

D. CollaborationWith Other Donors

110.      The programs o f the Bank and the Fund in Niger have been closely coordinated since
adjustment assistance to Niger resumed in 2000. Balance o f payments need i s jointly agreed by
the Bank, the Fund, and the Government. There i s close collaborationbetween the Bank and the
IMF teams, especially in the areas o f common interest such as budgetary management and
financial sector reforms.       Bank proposals on spending allocations, privatization, fiscal
management, and related structural policy benchmarks are coordinated with the Fund's fiscal
targets. InDecember 2000, the IMF approved a three-year PRGF program and i s scheduled to
undertake a new three-year program in 2003. The reform program underpinning the proposed
credit i s consistent with the macroeconomic program supported by the PRGF. The full PRSP was
discussedby the Bank and FundBoards in January 2002. Furthermore, Bank staff has consulted
closely with other major donors including the AfDB, the European Union and France, who are
providing budgetary assistance as well as technical assistance for budgetary management. The
Bank's collaboration with the EU will be intensified in the coming months in the context o f the
ongoing Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR),
which the Government i s producing withjoint support by Bank and EU.


E. CreditAmount andDisbursementProcedures

111.      The proposed credit amounting to SDR 47.4 million (US$ 65 million equivalent) would
be disbursed in two tranches during 2003-2004. The first tranche o f SDR 29 million would be
released upon Board approval and credit effectiveness and the second tranche o f SDR 18.4
million is expected to be disbursed in the first half o f 2004 upon completion o f the actions
described below.

112.      Disbursement. Disbursement arrangements will follow the Bank Operational Directive
o f February 8, 1996 on the Simplification o f Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment
and Sectoral Adjustment Loans. The proceeds o f the credit will be deposited by IDA ina Central
Bank account at the request o f the Borrower. If after deposit inthis account, the proceeds o f the
credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items imported from non-member countries,
or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), IDA will require the Borrower to
either (a) return that amount to the Central Bank account for use for eligible purposes; (b) refund
the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent un-disbursedamount o f
the Credit.

F. PriorActions andTrancheReleaseConditions

113.     The full program o f actions to be supported bythe proposed Credit i s set out inthe Policy
Reform Matrix (Annex 9). Within this program, a subset o f key actions have been undertaken

                                                29


since the release o f the second tranche o f PEAC Iin August 2002; other actions have been
identified as conditions for the release of the second tranche (expected around M a y 2004). The
maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as described in the Letter o f
Development Policy (LDP) will be necessary to release bothtranches o f PEAC 11.

114.     PriorActions completedby the Government:

115.     A. I n the area of budget management:

     To strengthen budget accountability: Budgetary accounts for FY 2002 were closed, as
     outlined in paragraph 52 of the LDP, through issuance of a certijkate of compliance
     (Certificat de Concordance). This certiJicate was submitted to the Association on September
     9, 2003. The budget execution law (Loi de R2glement) for FY 2001 was submitted to the
     Chambre des Comptes of the Supreme Court on July IO, 2003, in accordance withparagraph
     52 of the Program.
     To improve budget preparation: An Arrgtk was issued by the Minister of Finance and
     Economy on September 9, 2003, delineating the budget preparation process, establishing the
     sequence and dates of actions as well as the role and responsibilities of all ministries,
     services and other actors involved in the budget preparation process, as outlined in
    paragraph 38 of the LDP.

     To ensure adequate levels of budgetary resources for priority sectors: An outline (esquisse de
     projet du budget) of preliminary recurrent budget spending for FY 2004 for the Health
     Sector, the Education Sector and the Rural Development Sector, as outlined in paragraph 38
     of the LDP was submitted by the Minister of Finance and Economy to IDA on September 9,
     2003.
     To enhance budget execution: Aframework for the Cash Allocation Plan (cadre d'unplan de
     trksorerie) was established, reflecting priority allocations in favor of social and poverty
     alleviationpriorities reflected in paragraph 45 of the LDP.

B. I n the area ofprocurement:
     To operationalize the new procurement code: The Minister of Finance and Economy has
     issued four Arrgtks concerning the application of the Procurement Code (Arr&tds Nos.:
     303 /MF/E; 304/MF/E; 302/MFE; and 301/MFE respectively, all dated September 9, 2003),
     as reflected inparagraph 41 of the LDP.The first Arret6 determines key thresholds regarding
     procedures for awarding public contracts; the second Arret6 clarifies composition and
     responsibilities o f the tender evaluation committees; the third Arret6 determines the
     maximum variation in percentage o f the original price above which a procurement process
     needs to be relaunched; and the fourth Arret6 establishes the threshold requiring a prior
     review o f tenders by Central Procurement Commission (Commission Central des MarchCs,
     CCM).


C.In the area of regulatory reforms:
     To render the MRA operational: The President of the MRA has submitted to the Council of
     Ministers on September 8, 2003, a short list of eight eligible candidates,from which thefour
     directorsfor the MRA will be selected, namely: (a) the director in charge of energy, (b) the
     director in charge of telecommunications, (e) the director in charge of water, and (d) the
     director in charge of transportation, in conformity withparagraph 54 of the LDP.

                                                 30



D.In the area of social sector reforms:
     To strengthen training o f teachers: Adoption of a Decree on July 24, 2003, approving the by-
     laws (les statuts) providing for the application of a regulatory framework for the teacher
     colleges (Ecoles Normales, ENI), as stated in paragraph 57 of the LDP. These by-laws were
     neededto render the recently adopted framework law for the teacher colleges operational.

     To increase the number o f primary school teachers: The Minister of Basic Education has
     issued a Circular Letter on June 25, 2003 confirming the commitment of the Government to
     recruit 2702 contractual school teachers for the school year 2003104, as confirmed by
     paragraph 57 of the LDP.


116.     As a condition for effectiveness of the credit, the following will be met:
     To make irreversible progress in the privatization o f SONIDEP: The Government has issued
     and sent to the bidders bidding documents satisfactory in form and substance to IDA on the
     acquisition of shares of SONIDEP, as reflected inparagraph 54 of the LDP.

117.     Conditions for the Release of the Second Tranche. The release o f the second tranche
will be conditional upon:

A. I n the area of budget management:

     To put in place a reform plan for budgetary and public finance management: The Council of
     Ministers will adopt an action plan for strengthening budgetary and financial management
    for FY 2005, based on the recommendations of the PEMFAR mission and in form and
     substance acceptable to theAssociation, pursuant toparagraph 49 of the LDP.

     To ensure appropriate implementation o f the Cash Allocation Plan: The Minister of Finance
     and Economy willfurnish a letter to IDA, which is inform and substance acceptable to IDA
     and certifies the execution of government expenditure in thefirst quarter of FY 2004pursuant
     to the CashAllocation Plan, as setforth inparagraph 45 of the Program.

     To implement the newly adopted ArrCtC on the budget preparation process (see prior actions):
     The Government will carry out the twofollowing critical actions for the preparation of the
     FY05 Loi de Finance: (a) issuance of aJirst macroeconomic andfinancial framework, which
     will contain an outline of FY 2005 budget allocations; and b) issuance of a budget circular
     providing guidance to line ministries in thepreparation of their budgetproposals.

     To ensure adequate levels o f budgetary resources for priority sectors in the FY04 Loi de
     Finances (see prior actions): Niger's Loi de Finance for FY 2004 reflects priorities as set
    forth in the outline (esquisse de projet du budget) of preliminary recurrent budget spending
    for FY 2004.
     To improve medium-term budget programming: The Government will prepare multi-year
     budget programs (Programmes de budget pluriannuel) for the Education, Health and Rural
     Development Sectors covering FY 2005, 2006 and 2007 and complying with the MTEFfor
     said Fiscal Years,pursuant toparagraph 38 of the Program.

B. In the area ofprocurement:
     To operationalize the new procurement code: The Government will published a Decree, in
    form and substance satisfactory to IDA, establishing a Procurement Regulation Agency

                                              31


   (Agence de Rdgulation des March& Publics) pursuant to Article 123 of its Procurement Code
   andparagraph 41 of the Program.

C.In the area of social sector reforms:

0  To strengthen management o f health care facilities: TheMinister of Public Health will adopt
   apilot program, inform and substance acceptable to IDA, whichprovides for directfunding
   of selected health districts through performance contracts, pursuant to paragraph 57 of the
   Program.


D.In the area ofprivatization:
   To successfully conclude the SONIDEP privatization: SONIDEP will be brought to thepoint
   of sale, as stated inparagraph 54 of the LDP.

                                     32




                                  ANNEXES



Annex 1:  Outcomes of Previous Adjustment Credits
Annex 2:  Voted and Executed Credits to Priority Line Ministries, 2000-2002
Annex 3:  2003 Budget - Capital and Recurrent Expenditures
Annex 4:  Niger At A Glance
Annex 5:  Niger- Social Indicators
Annex 6:  Niger-Key Economic Indicators
Annex 7:  BackgroundNote on Cash Budgeting
Annex 8:  Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
Annex 9:  Policy Reform Matrix

                                                                                             Annex 1
                                                   33

                         OUTCOMESOFPREVIOUSADJUSTMENTCREDITS

1.       The EconomicRecovery Credit (ERC, March 1984). Inthe context of the devaluation
o f the CFA Franc inJanuary 1994, the ERC, a single tranche adjustment operation, was prepared
with the main objective o f supporting Niger's post-devaluation reformprogram. Outcomes o fthis
operation were disappointing and unsatisfactory. While GDP growth was slightly higher than the
target of 3.9 percent, the overall fiscal deficit worsened, reaching 12.5 percent o f GDP against a
target o f 9 percent for 1994. Arrears were partially settled. On the structural front, reforms in the
public enterprise sector were limited. The planned independent audits were camed out on time
for NIGELEC and CNSS, but delayed beyond the end 1994 for ONPPC and SONIDEP. The
liquidation o f COPRO-NIGER was delayed to 1995 and the privatization o f NIGELECi s still not
done. With regard to the Private Sector Development, neither the objective o f eliminating the
Government monopoly over hiringnor the revision o f the Labor Code was achieved.

2.       The Public Sector Adjustment Credit(PSAC, March 1997). This one tranche operation
focused on addressing public finance and public enterprise problems. In the context o f relative
political stability, outcomes o f this adjustment credit were satisfactory. While GDP growth was
lower than the target, 2.8 percent compared to 4.3 percent, the overall budget deficit reached 7.5
percent against a target o f 8 percent. Most o f the revenue mobilization measures were undertaken.
A number o f structural reforms were initiated in 1997. These included the rationalization o f the
civil service and the payroll system, by the revision o f the salary scale, the completion o f a civil
service census, the launch o f a redeployment program for the health sector and the tax collection
agencies and the adoption o f a civil service statute in 1998 which introduced mandatory
retirement after 30 years o f service or 55 years o f age. However, in the area o f public enterprise
reform, progress was slow, mainly due to the resistance o f powerful trade unions, weak technical
and administrative capacities.

3.       The PublicFinanceReformCredit(PFRC-October 1998). The overall objective of this
three-tranche credit was to support the implementation o f the economic reform program in1998-
99, designed with the leadership o f the Government in place. Outcomes o f this operation were
mixed. The April 1999 coup damaged severely economic and financial stance. GDP growth fell
to -0.6 percent in 1999 comparedwith 10.4percent in 1998.The wage bill couldnotbe contained
and domestic arrears could not be settled. As the result, the second and third tranches o f the credit
were cancelled. The revenue targets were not met and the widening of the tax base did not
materialize.

4.       The Public Finance Recovery Credit (PFRC-September 2000). This credit aimed at
supporting the stabilization efforts and the fiscal management reform conducting by a new-
elected and reform-oriented civilian Government. Outcomes o f this operation were satisfactory as
the implementation o f the program was successful. Real GDP grew by 7.6 percent in2001 owing
mostly to good rainfall. Revenue mobilization targets were achieved in both 2000 and 2001. The
budget management system was strengthened. Budget preparation was improved as programming
issues were solved. But still problems remained at the levels o f allocations for scholarships,
autonomous entities, and utility consumption. The Government introduced two key measures to
improve budget execution, including a strict fonvard-looking cash management system and the
prioritization o f expenditure. However, institutional weaknesses limited progress. Fiscal reporting
was improved thanks to the computerization o f budget execution. But, the reconciliation o f data
between the different agencies o f the Ministry o f Finance and Economy, in particular between
budget execution and the Treasury's balance sheet. External control and oversight o f budget
execution and audit were established. However, limited capacities o f the Chamber o f Accounts
and the lack o f adequate resources reduced the effectiveness o f the budget oversight system. The

                                                                                            Annex 1
                                                  34

Government tackled the problem o f domestic arrears. With the support o f the Bank, it established
a settlement plan o f domestic arrears and created a settlement structure so-called the CAADIE.
The plan proved effective: CFAF 26 billion were settled in 2001-02 out o f the total o f CFAF 295
billion at end 1999. On the structural front, progress was made inthe public enterprise reform: in
2001, SONITEL and SNE were privatized and the licenses for mobile phone awarded. However,
the privatization of SONIDEP andNIGELEC encounteredlongdelays.

5. PublicExpenditureAdjustment Credit I(PEAC I,             October 2001).

The Contextandthe OverallObjective

This adjustment operation was prepared in the context o f the elaboration o f Niger's PRSP. The
program o f reform supported by PEAC Iwas grounded inthe I-PRSP elaborated inOctober 2001
and endorsed by the Bank and the Fund. PEAC Iaimed at: (i)            continuing the support to the
Government's budgetary management reform program; (ii)supporting its efforts to improve
public expenditure allocations; (iii)supporting the implementation o f key social sector and
structural reforms. The program o f policies underpinning PEAC Ifocused on efficient and
equitable use o f public resources through the implementation o f public expenditure reforms,
improving access and quality o f basic social service delivery as well as privatizing State-owned
enterprises and strengthening o f the regulatory and financial environment for private sector-led
growth.

The Outcomes

This credit outputs are broadly satisfactory. The first tranche was disbursed uponeffectiveness in
December 2001. The second tranche was released in August 2002, after progress against tranche
release criteria had beenjudged as satisfactory. In2001, real GDP grew by 7.1 percent owing to
exceptional rainfall, but fell to 3 percent in 2002. Inflation was stabilizedat 4 percent in2001 and
3 percent in 2002. The current account deficit (excluding grants) declined from 7.5 percent to 6.7
percent in 2002, below the target o f 8.6 percent. Although the fiscal stance strengthened, the bulk
o f adjustment has heavily relied on expenditure cuts. Revenue mobilization i s still very weak and
Niger's has one o f the lowest revenue/GDP ratio o f 10.6 percent in2002 inthe WAEMU.

Since 2000, a number o f budgetary management reforms have taken place. The introduction o f
new budget tools has improved budget preparation.            A new budget nomenclature has been
adopted and a new Charter o f Accounts has been introduced. A new information technology was
used for the preparation o f the 2003 budget law. The 2002 and 2003 budgets reflect PRSP
priorities, particularly inkey social sectors. However, many limitations still exist. Dual budgeting
practice has not totally disappeared. The preparation o f the general budget and the investment
budget i s not fully integrated. The new budget tools still need to be fully mastered by key actors
o f the budget preparation. Program-budgets remain at early stage and need to be developed. At
the budget execution level, the introduction o f the FMIS has led to a computerization o f
budgetary processes, formerly tailored to manual recording. The new FMIS allows information to
be available in real time from the Budget Directorates (responsible for approving expenditure
commitments and issuingpayment orders) and the Treasury (responsible for actual payment and
public accounting). Still, the FMIS i s not fully exploited and needs to be expanded. In addition,
the new chain o f expenditure and the file o f civil service remain not fully integrated. At the
Budget reporting level, budget review laws o f 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000 have been adopted by
the National Assembly in December 2002. Closure o f budgetary accounts o f 2001 has been
completed. The draft project o f the budget review law for FYO1has been transmitted for adoption
to the Government. The Supreme Court's Audit Office (the Chamber o f Accounts), which was

                                                                                            Annex 1
                                                  35

dormant until 2000, has produced its first report on budget execution for FY 1997. However, the
process used by the Chamber o f Accounts to verify Government accounts i s not based on a
sample and not effective. A manual o f procedures for verifying these accounts does not exist. The
Chamber i s still not yet autonomous and its transformation into a Court o f Accounts in line with
WAEMU's recommendations has not happened.

Although progress has been made under PEAC I,        budget management i s far from being effective
inNiger. Section IVCl (above) has highlightedmajor challenges and weaknesses inthe areas of
budget preparation, execution, reporting and control mechanisms.

Social sector reforms were also implemented in line with the priorities o f the PRSP. In the
education sector, these reforms include the extension o f the contractual and decentralized
recruitment o f primary school teachers, support to double shift teaching. The draft law o f the
reform o f teacher training program was adopted by Parliament in November 2002. Inthe health
sector, the Government launched a decentralized contractual recruitment on a pilot basis.
Operating costs o f the HIV/AIDS coordination unit and expenditures to launch a household
expenditure survey were includedinthe Budget.

With regard to structural reforms, irreversible steps toward the privatization o f SONITEL were a
trigger for the negotiation o f PEAC I.This helped to bring SONITEL to the point o f sale in
November 2001. However, as indicated above, SONIDEP and NIGELEC still remain not
privatized. Inthe area o f financial sector, progress was made. The Banque Commerciale duNiger
(BCN) was re-capitalized and placed under the temporary management o f the BCEAO. An
agreement was reached to limit state contribution to the Banque Islamique du Niger pour l e
Commerce et 1'Investissement (BINCI). However, the privatization o f CrCdit duNiger (CDN) did
not occur. Many reforms have been delayed. These include: the actuarial audit o f the Caisse
Nationale de SecuritC Sociale, the financial and organizational audit o f micro finance institutions,
the restructuring o f the postal branch o f the Office Nationale de la Poste et de 1'Epargne (ONPE)
and the creation o f a financial subsidiary o f ONPE.

N




 \D
 n

m
2
x

                                                                                                                                     Annex 4
                                                                38




                                                                     Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                  Saharan        Low-
                                                           Nlger     Afrlca     Income       Developmentdiamond.
2002
Population,mid-year(miilions)                                11.6      674        2.511
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           170       470          430                      Life expectancy

GNI (Atlasmethod, US$ bllllonsJ                              2.1       317        1,069
Average annual growth, 199642
Population1%)                                                3.4        2 5          1.9
Laborforce 1%)                                               3.3        2 6         2.3      GNI                                   Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1996.02)                                        per                                  pnmav
                                                                                             capita                             nrollment
Poverty1%ofpopulation belownationalpovertvline)
Urban DoDulation1%of totalpopulation)                         22         32          31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                               46         46          59
Infant mortalitv(per 1,000 live births)                      156        105          80
Child malnutrition1%ofchildren under5)                        40                                      Access to improvedwater source
Access lo an ImprOVedwatersource (% ofpopulation)             59         58          76
Illiteracy1% ofpopulation ape 15+J                            84         38          37
Gross primaryenrollment 1%ofschwi-aQe population)             35         86          96     1
    Male                                                      42         92         103       ---"iger              Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                    29         80          88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982      1992     2001         2002      I Economicraiios.
GDP (US$ bil1ionsJ                                  2.0      2.3        1 9         2.2
Gross domesticinvestmenVGDP                        20.6      5.4       115         12.8
Exwrts of goodsand servicesIGDP                    21.0      16.8      186         16.3
Gross domesticsavingsiGDP                           5.5      4.3        4 1         4.2
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                    4.4        4 1         4.3     1                       1
Curent accountbalanceiGDP                                    -1.0      -7 4         -8.4
InterestpawnentslGDP                                3 5      0.6        1 4          1.2     Domestic                          Investment
Total debVGDP                                      47.5      64.7     79 9                   savings
Total debt serviceiexports                         55.2      12.9       7 2
Presentvalue of debVGDP
Presentvalue of debtJexoorts
                                                                                                              indebtedness
                                       198242 199242        2001      2002      200246
(averageannualQrordhJ
GDP                                       0.2       3.5      7.1        3 0         4.1
GDP Der capita                            -3.0      0.0      4.1       -05          0.6         -Niger                Low-incomegroup
Exwrtsof goodsand Services                -3.6      7.1


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                   1982     1992      2001        2002
(% of GDPJ                                                                                   Growthof Investmentand GDP (Oh)

Agriculture                                        443       388       406         399            T                                      I
Industry                                           173       179       170         169
   Manufacturing                                    3 9       5 5       6 6          6 6
Services                                           358       434       402         407
Privateconsumption                                 832       782       835         836
Generalnovemmentconsumption                        113       175       124         122
Importsof goods and services                       361       178       240         248                    -GDI            -GDP           I
                                                                                           :i
                                               1982.92   199242       2001        2002
(averageannualgmluth)                                                                        Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                         2 5       3 6      147           1 5                                                 I
Industry                                           -15        2 9       2 4          2 4
   Manufacturing                                   -15        3 6       3 4          3 3
Services                                           -18        3 1       3 3          3 8
                                                                                            -10                                       2
Privateconsumption                                 -11        4 7
Generalgovemmentconsumption                         7 1      -18
Gross domesticinvestment                           -27        6 4
Importsof goods and services                       -5 7      -0 9

Note:2002 data are preliminav estimates. Group data are through2001
* The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the COuntry(inbold) Comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing.the diamondwill
    be incomplete.

                                                                                                                      Annex 4
                                                      39



                                                                                                                      Niger
                                                                 ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1982   1992    2001      2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                   1.1    4.0       2.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      10.6  -14.5    4.0       3.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                    9.1    9.3      10.6
Current budgetbalance                            -3.5    -1.7      -0.1    1
Overall surplusldeficit                          -7.7    -7.4      -6.5              -GDPdefiator         *CPI             I

TRADE
                                         1982   1992    2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Exportand Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              269     266       288      600
 Uranium                                         190      86        90
 LivestockProducts                                43      63        70
 Manufactures
Total imports(cif)                               337     404       469
 Food                                             22     105       107
 Fuel and energy                                  22      41        44
                                                                                                                           I
 Capitalgoods                                     85      62        90
Exportprice index (1995=100)                      61      99       100             ge   87     Q8   88      00     01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                       54     130       132                    0 Exports           Imports   O2
Terms of trade (7995-100)                        112      76        76

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992    2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Currentaccount balanceto GDP (Oh)              L
Exportsof goodsand services               423    393     309       333       0
Importsof goodsand services               728    418     453       518
Resourcebalance                          -305     -25   -144      -185       2


Net income                                          7                        -4
                                                          -15       -13
Net currenttransfers                       97      -5      14        16      U

Currentaccountbalance                             -24   -144      -183       U

FinancingItems(net)                                14    168       188      -10
Changesin net reserves                             10     -24        -5     -12
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)              -2      94      130
Conversionrate (DEC, loca//US$)          328.6  264.7  733.0     697.0

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982   1992    2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                               :omposition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed        958   1,517  1,555
  IBRD                                       0      0       0         0
  IDA                                      92    483     753       867
Total debt service                        245      53      25
  IBRD                                       0      0       0         0
  IDA                                        1      6       7        15
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants
  Officialcreditors                        41      76      68
  Privatecreditors                        -20     -20      -6
  Foreigndirectinvestment                  28      56      13
  PoMolioequity                              0      0       0                                    c:81
World Bank program
  Commitments                                0     36    130         39      4 - IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            13      21      64        69      3 - IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                         .                     F Private
  Principalrepayments                        0      2       2         9      2 . IMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                                ---
  Netflows                                 13      19      62        60
  Interestpayments                           1      4       4         6
  Nettransfers                             13      15      57        54

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                 7/25/03

                                                                                                                     Annex 5
                                                         40


                                           Niger Social Indicators

                                                              Latest single year                   Same regionlincome group

                                                                                                            Sub-
                                                                                                         Saharan          Low-
                                                       1970-75        1980-85      1995-2001               Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                       4.8            6.6            11.2              673.9      2,505,9
  Growth rate (% annual average for period)                 2.9            3.2             3.4                2.5          I.9
Urban population (% of population)                        10.6           14.3             21.1               32.3         30.8
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                     8.0            8.0             7.2                5.1          3.5
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index
  Urban headcount index
  Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                       250            230              180               460           430
Consumer price index (1995:lOO)                             31              89             118
Food price index (1995=100)                                               102              131
INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                                50.5
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                               2.6
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                             53.3
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
  Health (% of GDP)                                                                        1.a                2.5          1.1
  Education (% of GDP)                                      2.3            3.1             2.7                3.4          2.8
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                                   0.3
Net primaryschool enrollment rate
(% of age group)
  Total                                                                     25              30
      Male                                                                  32              36
      Female                                                                17              24                 52
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
  Total                                                                                     59                 58           76
      Urban                                                                                 70                 83           90
      Rural                                                                                 56                 46           70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
  Measles                                                                   27              51                 58           60
  DPT                                                                        4              31                 53           61
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                                        49              40
Life expectancyat birth
(yean)
  Total                                                     40              44              46                 46           59
      Male                                                   38             42              44                 45           58
      Female                                                42              45              48                 47           60
Mortality
  Infant (per 1,000 live births)                            194            191             156               105            80
  Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                           325           320              265               171           121
  Adult (15-59)
     Male (per 1,000 population)                            611           562              473               520           312
      Female (per 1,000 population)                         490           453              308               461           256
  Maternal (modeled, per 100,000 live births)                                              920
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)                                 20              16

Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997and 1998due to
change from ISCED76 to ISCED97; ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies between the estimates of school-age population
and reported enrollment data.

2003 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank

                                                                                                             Annex 6
                                                             41

                                        Niger Key Economic Indicators
                                               -

                                                          Actual               Estimate           Projected
                Indicator                     1997      1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003     2004     2005
Nationalaccounts(as % of GDP)
Gross domesticproducta                           100       100    100      100     100    100      100       100     100
 Agriculture                                      39        43      41      38      41      40      39        38      38
 Industry                                         18        17      17      18       17     17      17        16      16
 Services                                         41        39      40      42      40      41      41        41      41

Total Consumption                                 97        97      96      97      96      96      94        94      94
Gross domestic fixed investment                   11        11      10      11       11     13      16        17      17
 Govemmentinvestment                               6         6       6       6        7      7      10         8       8
 Privateinvestment                                 5         5       4       5        5      5       6         8       9

~xports(GNFS)~                                    16        18      16      18       17     16      16        15      14
Imports(GNFS)                                     24        26      22      25      24      25      26        24      23
Gross domesticsavings                              3         3       4     3.3        4      4       6         6       6
Gross nationalsavings`                             0          1      3       3        4    4.3     6.1       6.4     6.4
Memorandum items
Gross domesticproduct                          1978       2078   2001     1930     1945  2171    2328      2546    2725
(US$millionat current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)              200        210     190     180      180    170     190       200     210
Realannual growthrates ("YO,   calculatedfrom 1987 prices)
 Gross domesticproductat marketprices            2.8      10.4    -0.6    -1.4      7.1    3.0     4.0       4.1     4.1
 Gross Domestic Income                           2.5       9.6     0.1
Realannualper capita growthrates (%, calculatedfrom 1987 prices)
 Gross domesticproductat marketprices           -0.8       6.6    -4.0    -4.7      3.8   -0.2     0.7       0.8     0.8
 Total consumption                              -2.4       5.3    -1.6
 Privateconsumption                             -3.6       6.5    -3.2
Balance of Payments(US$ millions)
 EXPOITS (GNFS)~                                 303       369     321     321      309    333     342       357     376
   MerchandiseFOB                                272       334     287     283     266     288     300       313     328
 Imports (GNFS)~                                 444       547     452     455     453     518     575       623     658
   MerchandiseFOB                                300       396     317     324      320    374     422       452     480
 Resourcebalance                                -141      -178    -131    -135     -144   -185    -234      -265    -282
 Netcurrent transfers                            -22        -6      -5        4      14     16      I O       12      15
 Currentaccount balance                         -192      -207    -156    -147     -144   -183    -236      -259    -274
 Net privateforeigndirect investment                0         0       2     18       30       4       8         9     11
 Long-termloans (net)                            154        42        3     43       36     19      55        81      79
 Other capital(net,incl. errors& ommissions)      10       165     129     115      102    164     179       182     199
 Changeinreservesd                                29          1     22     -29      -24     -5       -6      -15     -15
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance ("YO  of GDP)                    -7.1      -8.5    -6.5    -7.0    -7.4    -8.5   -10.0     -10.4   -10.4
Realannual growthrates ( YR87 prices)
 Merchandiseexports (FOB)                         1.9       6.5     0.7   21.9     -8.8     2.6     1.7       2.4     2.8
 Merchandiseimports(CIF)                        10.4        4.6     6.2     7.0     4.6     9.8    14.8       6.8     5.5

                                                                                                     (Continued)

                                                                                                            Annex 6
                                                             42




                                      Niger Key EconomicIndicators
                                              -
                                                      (Continued)


                                                           Actual                Estimate          Projected
                 Indicator                   1997        1998       1999   2000   2001    2002   2003     2004   2005

Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
 Budgetary revenues                               8.4        8.9       8.8    8.6     9.3   10.6   10.6     10.8   11.2
 Current expenditures                           10.5        11.0      12.4   11.2    11.0   10.7   10.5     10.3   10.7
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)      -2.1       -2.1      -3.6   -2.6    -1.7   -0.1    0.1      0.5    0.5
 Capital expenditure                              5.1        5.6       5.6    5.2     5.7    6.5    9.1      9.5    9.4
 Foreign financing                                8.1        9.7       4.5   17.9     8.0    8.1    6.0      6.6    6.5

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP                                           9.2        8.2       7.6    8.1     9.6    9.9   10.1     10.0   10.0
 Growth o f M2 (%)                               -1.o        0.7      -5.5    8.9    32.3    9.4    8.7      8.5    6.5
 Private sector credit growth /                   0.9    -321.6       -0.5   -6.9    -1.8    1.1    1.2      8.9  -32.8
 total credit growth ("h)

Price indices( YR87 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index                 70.4       81.1       69.2   56.1    57.8   61.0   62.4     63.6   64.9
 Merchandise import price index                 82.3      102.1       78.4   72.9    68.9   73.4   75.6     75.7   76.2
 Merchandise terms o f trade index              85.5       79.4       88.2   76.9    83.9   83.1   82.5     84.0   85.1
 Real exchange rate (US$ILCU)'                  57.1       58.5       55.0   53.8

 Consumer price index (% change)                  2.9        3.0       3.0    2.9     4.0    2.7    0.5      1.8    2.0
 GDP deflator ("hchange)                          3.1        3.0       2.0    4.5     4.0    3.0    2.5      2.3    2.0


a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includesnet unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use o fIMFresources.
e. Consolidated central govemment.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." Anincrease inUSWLCUdenotes appreciation.

                                                                                                  Annex 7
                                                   43

             BACKGROUNDNOTE ON CASHBUDGETINGINNIGER
MacroeconomicBackground
        The cash budgeting system originated in Niger in 1998 as a result o f a convergence o f
several factors. First, a combination of uncertain external donor assistance and poor domestic
resource mobilization in the 1980's and 1990's had created an unm-edictable environment for
government financing o f its programs, and
hence threatened macroeconomic stability.                CHART 1:GAP BETWEENTOTAL EXPENDITURE

Over the last decade, government revenues                 AND TOTAL REVENUE: 1995-1999(CFA billion)

had been lower than revenues forecasted,
and the decline o f international trade taxes       250   1                                             I

was not matchedby equivalent increases in
domestic taxation. Secondly, there was a
growing asymmetry between government
expenditures and government revenues                100    ..................                           1
with expenditure       growth    consistently             t    m

outpacing revenue. The gap between the
two increased by more than 30% from                    0 4

1995 to 1998, rising from CFA 75 billion                     1995          1996      1997  1998    1999

to CFA 100 billion.      Credit allocated to                                            +Total
line ministries was in a constant increasing                 +Total         Expenditures       Revenues

trend. Thirdly, excessive accumulation of arrears in the 1990's was eroding the Government's
fiscal position. Fourthly, with Niger's entrance into the WAEMU, there was a growing pressure
to adhere to the zone's convergence criteria and fiscal requirements. Thus, the relinquishing o f
monetary policy to the BCEAO has put pressure on the cash-constrained Treasury and not
allowed for a monetization o f the fiscal deficit. One o f the key institutional features o f a regional
arrangement in francophone Africa i s the constrained use o f monetary policy by national
governments as a tool to promote economic objectives inreturn for a regional guarantee o f price
stability. Thus in sum, the principal objective o f the cash budget aims at controlling the budget
deficit and avoiding an accumulationo f domestic arrears.


LegalFramework
         The legal framework for executing government expenditures i s provided by decree
68175PRNlMF dated June 21, 1968 which focused on the rhythm o f credit executed. In this
context, the decree 981187PRNlMFlRElP dated July 1998, modifying the decree 68/75PRNlMF,
provides a mechanism for a temporary freeze o f part o f voted credits when government revenues
are lower than anticipated and a release o f these credits when these revenues improve. Credits
voted are thus reexamined every quarter in line with the effective trend o f government revenues.
Theoretically, the proportion and the amounts o f the credits that are frozen are determined by a
coefficient o f regulationthat itself i s a function o f the gap inrevenue receipts.

How the CashBudgetingOperate

         The institutional framework under which the cash budgeting operates in practice i s in
some sense a departure from theory. The planners of the system envisaged a well-functioning
Treasury, that would prepare a precise rolling cash management plan. An Inter-ministerial
Committee would handle the strategic decisions and meet four times a year to analyze the relative
adjustments to be made inallocations to different ministries depending on the volume o f revenue
receipts and on the economic policy o f the country. The Committee would periodically revise the
coefficients o f regulation in order to account for revenue volatility. Furthermore, the system i s

                                                                                                   Annex 7
                                                   44

supposed to be based on the criteria o f transparency and efficiency, and there i s an explicit
provision that says that no modification or change can occur outside the jurisdiction o f the
Interministerial Committee. Inpractice, an informal committee, comprising the Prime Minister,
the Minister o f Finance and the Treasurer, supervise the system and make the key decisions on
the execution o f expenditure. The Treasury Committee does not function as planned, and the
monthly rolling plans are not operational. The current system gives wide discretionary power to
the Finance Minister to make adjustments to credit allocations to line ministries based on criteria,
which are not formally defined. The Interministerial Committee does not exist, and thus, many ad
hoc changes are made along the chain o f budget execution. As happens in several Francophone
African countries, the system creates an asymmetry o f power between the Finance Minister and
the sector ministries, with the latter having little leverage intheir allocations.

Impact




expenditure, more than 70% donor financed                   CHART 2: BUDGET EXECUTIONRATES BY
has increased), the stock o f arrears has been                  ECONOMIC CATEGORY 2002 (%)
reduced by more than CFA 70 billion
between 1999 and 2003, and new arrears
have not accumulated, thus contnbuting to
deficit containment and promotion o f overall          8o O

macro stability. However, the sectoral and             600
microeconomic impact o f the cash budgeting            40 0
has been negative, and the overall quality of          zoo
fiscal management has suffered. The first               0 0
principal impact o f cash rationing has been                 Public     Defense  Education Health Economc

its effect on actual allocations to Ministries,              Services  and Order                   swvices




         Secondly, there has been an adverse impact on service delivery o f the various social
sectors, except primary education. Chart 3 breaks down the chain o f funds to the health ministry
and shows the gaps between the voted amount by
Parliament (credit votC), the actual amount                   CHART3:CHAIN 0FALL0 CA n 0 NS AND
released (credit libCrC), the amount actually paid                 EXPENDITURES FOR MINISTRY OF

by Treasury (credit ordonnanck), and the amount                      HE4L'TH IN2002 (CFA BILLION)

that remains after annulment (annulation) by the           25,                                               I
Ministryo fFinance and Economy in2002due to                20
cash rationing. Thus, rationing creates a difficult        15
environment for sectoral ministries to plan their          10
social programs because they are unsure about               5
                                                        I
the precise timing and fluctuations o f cash                0
releases. Thus, the system does undermine some                     Voted      Released     Paid      After

key social objectives.                                                                             annulation

                                                                                             Annex 8
                                                   45

September 10,2003


Mr.CallistoMadavo
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington, D C
U S A

Dear Mr.Madavo,


1. Iam writing to request, on behalf o f the Government o f Niger, a Credit o f $ 65 million
equivalent from the International Development Association (IDA) in support o f our structural
adjustment program. The Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC 11) would provide a
substantial part o f the financing necessary to support continued reforms in key areas.             In
particular, the credit would facilitate reforms focusing on the efficient use o f public resources, ii)
better public service delivery; and iii)a more growth-oriented and supportive regulatory
environment for the private sector.       As outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy, these
reforms should pave the way for eventual programmatic lending by the Bank.

 I.INTRODUCTION

2. Economic Context. Niger faces serious natural constraints, including rising aridity o f its
climate, strong demographic pressure (inthe form o f a 3.1 percent population growth rate), and a
lack o f natural resources. Located at the heart o f the continent, Niger i s a landlocked nation,
which increases its trade costs. The nearest seaport i s nearly 1,000 kmaway, and the country has
no linkingrailway infrastructure.

3. In addition to these physical constraints that hamper economic expansion and prevent
improvement in the population's standard o f living, during the 1980s and 1990s, Niger
experienced a series o f economic and socio-political events (e.g., the collapse o f the uranium
market, a debt crisis, growing informalization o f the economy, armed rebellion, military coups,
strikes, etc.) that have contributed to an acceleratedexpansion and deepening o f poverty.

4. As a result, poverty i s now pervasive inNiger, as evidenced by several statistics. Per capita
income fell from US$ 391 in 1975 to US$ 269 in 1998. Life expectancy at birth - 48 years,
according to the latest available estimates -- i s among the lowest inthe world. Rates o f infant and
child mortality were, respectively, 123 per thousand and 274 per thousand in 1998. The gross
enrollment ratio i s one of the world's lowest: 41.7 percent in 2001/2003, with a strong disparity
between girls and boys. In fact, the enrollment rate for girls, at the same point in time, stood at
33.3 percent. The rate of access to safe water i s barely 60 percent at present. Sixty-three percent
o f the population currently lives below the poverty threshold, according to the latest household
budget/consumption survey (1989-1992).         The rate o f health service coverage i s a scant 47
percent, a figure that does not convey the actual difficulties in health care access for large
segments o f the population, due to a lack o f sufficient income. Faced with widespread poverty, in
2000, Niger adopted a poverty reduction strategy consisting o f two principal stages.

5. The first stage, initiated in April 2000, focused on the preparation o f an Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). This I-PRSP enabled the Government, on the one hand, to
design and negotiate with the Bretton Woods Institutions a three-year (2000-2003) program
supported by funds from the Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility (PRGF) and, on the other, to

                                                                                              Annex 8
                                                   46

reach the decision point under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HPC) Initiative in
December 2000. The second stage, launched in February 2001- at a national workshop attended
by representatives o f all segments o f society, dealt with the preparation o f the PRSP and resulted
in the approval, in January 2002, of the final PRSP. The strategic themes of the PRSP are as
follows: (i) macro-economic stabilization; (ii) development o f productive sectors; (iii)
                                                    the                                             the
development o f universally-accessible social services; (iv) promotion o f good governance,
capacity-building and decentralization. This document, presented inFebruary 2002 to the Boards
o f Directors o f the World Bank and IMF, was also the focus o f an important donors' forum held
on June 7-8, 2003 inNiamey. At the conclusion o f this meeting, all partners representedpledged
their solemn commitment to the objectives o f the PRSP and re-asserted their commitment to
considering it, as the Government does, the sole frame o f reference for their interventions in
Niger inthe areas o f economic, financial and social policy.

11.RECENTECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTSAND STRUCTURALREFORMS
UNDERTAKENSINCE 2000

6. Since 2000, Niger has made significant progress, in terms o f the stabilization program, as
well as interms o f structural reforms, particularly inthe areas o f financial sector restructuring and
privatization. This section reviews these accomplishments in order to accurately situate the
program to be supported by the Second Public ExpenditureAdjustment Credit (PEAC).

7. The first key achievement o f the program has been the restoration o f macroeconomic
stability. After two full years o f execution o f the 2000-2003 program with support from the IMF,
the PRGF Fifth Review concluded that Niger's economic and financial management during this
period was appropriate for macroeconomic stability and poverty reduction. Secondly, Economic
growth was positive in 2001 and 2002 (7.1 percent and 3 percent, respectively) after two years o f
recession, and was essentially driven by the return o f more favorable climatic conditions and
improved economic and financial management. Inflation has been on a downward trend. Indeed,
the consumer price index dropped from 4.7 percent inDecember 2000 to 3.2 percent inDecember
2001 and was reduced further to 2.7 percent by December 2002. As o f July 2003 inflation stood
at 1.0%.

8. Thirdly, with regard to public finances, fiscal revenues rose from 8.6 percent o f gross
domestic product (GDP) in 2000 to 9.3 percent in 2001 and to 10.6 percent in 2002, which
represents an annual growth o f 20.2 percent for 2001 and 21 percent for 2002. Thus, in three
years, the Government's efforts at domestic resource mobilization boosted public revenues from
CFAF 110.1 billion in2000 to CFAF 161.5 billion in 2002. Current budget expenditures, which
represented 12.47 percent o f GDP in 1999, stabilized between 2000 and 2002 at around 11
percent o f GDP. The wage bill, one o f the largest components o f current expenditures, was
reduced from 4.6 percent o f GDP in 1999 to 3.7 percent in 2002. The proportion o f tax revenues
absorbed by the wage bill thus declined from 50.4 percent in 2000, to 40.3 percent in 2001, and
then to 39.0 percent in 2002. Accumulated internal arrears were reduced, inthree years, by CFAF
62 billion in net terms. This reduction in arrears benefited small-scale creditors, workers on the
Government payroll, suppliers and banks.            These favorable trends in fiscal revenues and
expenditures over the 2000-2002 period brought about improvements in the various fiscal
balances. For example, the base fiscal balance went from -4.8 percent o f GDP in 1999, to -3.4
percent in2001, and to -1.8 percent in2002.

9. Foreign trade continues to be affected by the inadequate diversification o f the economy,
which causes the share represented by uranium to remain high. With regard to money and credit,
efforts to restrict Government reliance on bank financing were successful. As o f late September

                                                                                              Annex 8
                                                   47

2002, the change in net credit to the State thus emerged as CFAF -3.0 billion, compared to a
target o f CFAF +1.5 billion, a positive differential o f CFAF 4.5 billion.

10. The efforts made in 2001 and 2002 continued in 2003, despite a fairly unfavorable situation
in the region. Discussions concerning the fifth Three-Year Economic and Financial Program
Review took place in Niamey from July 4 through 18, 2003. These discussions confirmed the
conclusions o f the Fifth Review and support the Government's macroeconomic objectives for
2003 o f real GDP growth o f 4%, an inflation rate below 3 percent, and a current balance o f
payments deficit (apart from budgetary assistance grants) limited to 8.5 % o f GDP. Indeed, it
became apparent that the economic trend during the first half o f 2003 was rather encouraging,
despite the crisis in Cote d'Ivoire, which had a limited impact on Niger, contrary to what had
been feared in late 2002. Nonetheless, it did affect WAEMU's compensatory transfers after the
introduction o f the common external tariff (CET).

11. As for public finances, prudent cash management made it possible to adhere to the program's
performance criteria as o f late March 2003 in the areas o f (i)  basic deficit; (ii) position o f the
                                                                                    net
Government; and (iii)    reduction o f internal arrears. The same i s true o f performance criteria
pertainingto the non-accumulation o f external payments arrears and external indebtedness, and o f
benchmarks relating to the wage bill and fiscal revenues.

12. Concerningmonetarypolicy, the money supply grew by 3.4 percent duringthe first quarter o f
2003, despite a 28 percent drop inthe net external holdings o fthe banking system. Withregardto
debt relief, an examination o f the prerequisites for reaching the decision point yielded the following
conclusions: o f the 13 conditions that Niger must meet inorder to attain the decision point, nine have
thus far been satisfied. Four conditions have yet to be officially fulfilled, but they are inareas in
which significant progress has been made.

13. A second area of important Government achievements was in structural reforms. Inthe area
o f budgetary policy, apart from actions and measures intended to help stabilize the macro-
economic framework, four major reforms deserve mention. They are: the new State budgetary
nomenclature (nomenclature budgdaire de 1'Etat, ME); the new State's Chart o f Accounts
(Plan comptable de 1'Etat, PCE); the Public Procurement Code; and the computerization o f the
chain o f expenditures.

14. The new State budgetary nomenclature, drawn up in accordance with WAEMU Directive
04/98, was approved by Decree No2002-197/PRN/MF/E dated July 26, 2002. It served as a
framework o f reference for the development o f the 2003 budget, which adhered to the provisions
of this new budget set-up. Secondly, the new State's Chart o f Accounts was approved by Decree
No2002-198/PRN/MF/E dated July 26, 2002. Five enabling by-laws for the State's Chart of
Accounts were also approved. Thirdly, during the last quarter o f 2002, development o f the new
computerized accounts management software began. A working group was established for this
purpose at the Treasury. This group's mandate i s to ensure that the requirements associated with
accounting procedures and the training o f users in the new software are taken into account.
Finally, during the first half o f 2003, the emphasis was on monitoring implementation o f the
accountingreforms and on improving and simplifyingtasks within the new context o f accounting
and computerizationprocedures.

15. With regardto public procurement, the Government embarked upon an in-depth reform o f the
public procurement system, culminating in June 2002 in the development o f a Public
Procurement Code, which was approved by the National Assembly in October 2002. In the area
o f informatics, there was an integrated computerization o f the chain o f expenditures.           This

                                                                                         Annex 8
                                                 48

measure i s part o f the overall effort to computerize the public finance system. Introduced and
validated in2000, the new chain o f expenditures integrates all procedures inthe following circuit:
credits-commitments-payments-agency lines (delegations)-settlements - handling o frevenues and
recovery- budget statements. It operates in an environment distinguished by its reliance upon a
modem database, for which security and utilization procedures have been successfully
implemented.      The new State budgetary nomenclature, which i s characterized by the
amalgamation o f operating expenditures and investment expenditures into a single budget, i s now
operational within the computerized system.

16. With regard to private sector development, in the context o f the national economic
liberalization policy, a program o f privatization and restructuring o f public and para-statal
enterprises has been initiated by the Government. This program i s supported by a World Bank
credit o f SDR 14 million, or about US$ 18 million, which was signed on September 30, 1998 and
became effective on January 28, 1999. Privatization operations are now complete for the dairy
company OfJice du Lait duNiger, the cement company Societe Nigdrienne de Cimenterie and the
textile company Societe' Nigerienne des Textiles. Privatization o f SONITEL and o f its mobile
communications affiliate SAHEL COM became a reality with the sale o f 51percent o f its capital
to the ZTE/China RAILCOM/LAAICO consortium. The signature o f the transaction documents
and the hand-over o f checks corresponding to the capital increase, the adjustment on conversion,
and the completion bonus occurred on December 20, 2001.              The strategic buyer actually
commenced its activities inJanuary 2002.

17. In November 2000, Niger also awarded two (2) GSM-standard (Global System for Mobile
Communications) cellular licenses through intemational competitive bidding to TELECEL and
CELTEL Niger. The latter began marketing its services on October 17, 2001 and has about
20,000 subscribers inNiamey and Maradi. After some initial start-up difficulties, TELECEL i s in
the process o f completing its technical installation. SAHEL COM, the third operator, which also
happens to be an affiliate o f SONITEL, commenced its activities on August 1, 2002 and has
about 15,000 subscribers.     The rapid development o f mobile communications has made it
possible to satisfy pent-up demand. The positive effects have been immediate. The number o f
telephone subscribers has nearly doubled since the liberalization began. Interconnection o f the
functional cellular telephone networks (i-e., CELTEL and SAHEL COM) was accomplished
during2003. Conceming the water utility SocieteNationale des Eaux (SNE), a ten-year leasing
contract was agreed upon in January 2001 for the production, transport and distribution o f safe
water inthe 51centers previously managed by SNE. Privatization o f the public works equipment
service Societe' de Location du Materiel des Travaux Publics (SLMTP) became effective with the
official hand-over o f the agency to its buyer, the MARABA Trading Company, on December 31,
2002.

18. As far as the financial sector i s concerned, the Intemational Bank o f Africa (Banque
internationale pour 1'Afrique, BIA), which had been under strict oversight, i s once again on a
sound financial footing. The Commercial Bank o f Niger (Banque commerciale du Niger, BCN),
which was under provisional administration for over a year, was recapitalized in 2002, with the
Libyan Arab Foreign Bank agreeing to carry the Government's share for a period o f two years,
during which time private Nigerien partners will be sought. An agreement was reached in 2003
with the former stockholders o f the Niger Islamic Trade and InvestmentBank (Banque islamique
du Niger pour le commerce et l'investissement, BINCI) to absorb past losses and boost its
capitalizationto the prudential level. Over the 2003-2004 period, the budgetaryreforms described
above will be consolidated and expanded.

                                                                                          Annex 8
                                               49

111.POLICY REFORMOBJECTIVESFOR2004-2006

19. The Govemment's program for 2004-2006 aims at achieving high and sustained growth by
maintainingmacro stability and continuing its agenda o f structural reforms.

A. PublicProcurement

20. Actions underway and to be carried out are the following: development o f regulatory texts
and standard bidding documents, according to type o f procurement; outreach efforts, as well as
training in the new code, for economic operators and agents o f the central and regional
administration.

B.BudgetExecution

21. With regard to budgeting, the Government aims to streamline the budget preparation and
execution processes over the next several years. It i s envisioned that in the medium- to longer-
term, a program budgeting approach by sectoral ministries will be adopted and implemented in
stages within a more stable and predictable funding environment.           The prerequisite to the
effective implementation and use o f program budgets has been the existence o f a systematic
multi-annual approach to government budgeting through the use o f an instrument such as the
MTEF. This approach would clearly identify the responsibilities and accountabilities of the
Ministry of Finance and Economy and the sector ministries and would structure the budget
preparation process to allow for the necessary discussions between the Ministry o f Finance and
Economy and sectoral ministries on the basis o f determined sectoral envelopes, key poverty-
reduction results, resource allocations consistent with program priorities and operational
efficiency.   Finally, a program budget approach would enable ministries to clearly identify
priorities relationships between expenditures, programs, intended results and sectoral objectives
and, provide a starting point for shifting the notion o f performance away from procedural
complianceto achievement o fresults.

22. To accomplish these broader objectives o f budget execution, a more proper computerized
financial system i s envisioned. The emphasis for the next two years will be on a number o f key
reforms.    At the central level, harmonization o f the information system between the Large
Enterprises Directorate (Direction des Grandes Entreprises), the General Tax Directorate
(Direction GCnCrale des Impdts) and the Treasury will be studied with a view to implementation
in 2004. The integration of the new debt service information system, based on data from the
Treasury, will also be studied. At the regional level, the plan i s to expand computerization to all
payment offices (paieries), a measure that may begin during the second half o f 2003 with the
establishment o f a pilot site at the Payment Office o f Niamey. Implementation o f this measure
over the entire national territory will require the mobilization o f financial resources to cover
equipment and staff training needs. Regarding the chain o f expenditures, (i)    a direct interface
with the integrated chain o f expenditures for financial comptrollers (e.g., for expenditure
monitoring, budget management, etc.) will be introduced, and the liquidation phase, inparticular,
will be formalized; (ii) budgetary chain will be opened up to credit administrators within the
                         the
ministries, in order to give them access to vouchers and allow them to monitor expenditures
directly up to the point o f settlement.

23. The networking would be implemented progressively, beginning with the Ministries of
Education and Health, which are priority sectors also situated in close physical proximity to the
Ministry of Finance and Economy; (iii)the design and establishment of standardized budget
statements, comprehensive summaries, and expenditure monitoring tables, as adjuncts to a set o f

                                                                                               Annex 8
                                                 50

performance charts. This item also covers personnel expenditures dealt with under the `balance'
application. Regarding debt management, the installation o f a new software CS-DRMS 2000+
                                                                                   -
(Commonwealth Secretariat-Debt Recording and Management System) - will provide a highly
effective tool for debt management and analysis.          The support o f development partners i s
necessary for the capacity-building required to see these reforms go through a satisfactory
conclusion. This support might entail financing o f the cost o f opening up the network as outlined
above, the cost o f training or skills upgrades in the use o f computer tools, and the purchase o f
computer equipment.

24. The other major structural reforms involve the civil service, education, health and population,
transportation, privatization and the introduction o f a mechanism for the systematic monitoring o f
the poverty reduction strategy.

25. Reform of the civil service. In connection with civil service reform, several measures
already implemented have improved the knowledge o f staff-related facts and figures, and have
made it possible to retire a large number o f civil servants, but the size o f the wage bill i s still not
inline with expectations, hence the needto continue these measures in2003/2004. The program
also includes complementary measures intended, on the one hand, to better control staff numbers
and the wage bill, and, on the other hand, to modernize the administration. Regarding the control
over staff numbers and the wage bill, the primary measures envisaged involve: (i)      the connection
o f the Ministry o f Public Administration and Labor (Ministire de la Fonction Publique et du
Travail, MFP/T) to the integrated file network o f the Ministry o f Finance and Economy (MF/E);
(ii) implementation o f the specifications pertaining to the MFP/T's connection to the network and
the acquisition o f computer equipment; (iii)  a general headcount o f government employees; and
(iv) production of the compensation manual and the creation o f a mechanism for the automatic
monitoring o f compensation.

26. Concerning the modernization o f the administration, the measures envisaged involve, among
other things: (i)the elaboration o f a system for assessing the productivity o f government
employees; (ii) the approval o f General Articles and their enabling legislation; (iii) obtaining
                                                                                        the
o f consultants' services for the enhancement o f the Integrated Program o f Modernization o f
Public Administration in Niger (Programme Intdgrk de Modernisation de 1'Administration
Publique du Niger, PIMAN) and the development o f an action plan for its implementation; (iv)
execution o f the position description study for purposes o f anticipatory management and the
establishment o f the ministries' job hierarchies; (v) execution o f a generic study o f alternative
recruitment options; (vi) implementation o f the training program on human resource capacity-
building; (vii) execution o f the study pertaining to the conversion o f the National Retirement
Pension Fund (Fonds National de Retraite, FNR) into an Autonomous Retirement Fund for
Public Employees (Caisse Autonome de Retraite des Fonctionnaires, CARFO); (viii) execution
o f the study concerning the reform o f budget line items in order to take into account the option o f
Government decentralization; and (ix) completion o f the computerization o f the managerial
departments o f the MFP/T and o f the Administrative and Financial Affairs Divisions (directions
des affaires administratives etjinanci8res, DAAF) o fthe line ministries.

27. Education, health and population:            The Government i s continuing its policy o f
restructuring and modernizing the educational system through the management o f education
volunteers (volontaires de I'dducation, VE) and students o f teacher training institutes (Ecoles
normales d'instituteurs, ENI). In this connection, it has become crucial to deregulate and secure
the credits associated with the payment o f VEs and EN1students. In addition, VE recruits who
do not come from the ENIs must undergo at least 30 days o f teacher training that must be
financed. VEs, so that they and their numbers can be effectively managed, must be visited by

                                                                                            Annex 8
                                                  51

four (4) periodic inspection missions per year. In addition, the program provides support for
educational inspection missions to elementary schools (cycle de base I,IECBl),        to pedagogical
outreach units (Cellules d'animationpidugogiques, CAPED), and to ENIs, and for the purpose of
producing statistical yearbooks on the educational system, thus ensuring the availability o f
accurate and up-to-date information.

28. Inthe area o fhealth, a staffing deficit o f about 1,168 healthagents has emerged at health care
facilities, particularly due to the enforcement o f standards contained in the 1994-2000 sectoral
development plan (Plan de developpement sectoriel, PDS/1994-2000); the impact o f the
retirement, in 2002, o f 32 agents from the relevant contingents; and the staffing requirements o f
the Integrated Health Centers (Centres de santi intigris, CSI) that will be operational in 2003.
Moreover, the low level o f revenues and budget allocations in the hospital sector makes it
impossible to ensure a steady supply o f personnel. Therefore, the program provides substantial
support for, on the one hand, the adoption o f a policy that takes into account the status and salary
level o f new agents recruited at the various health service levels, as well as the recruitment o f
health care personnel (i.e,, contractual health volunteers) at the district level, and, on the other
hand, improved availability o f high-quality essential drugs within health care facilities. Inthe
context o f HIV/AIDS prevention efforts, the AIDS I11Programhas also been developed.

29. Finally, the program includes, inthe context o f implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRSP), a study o f the links between poverty and population dynamics, as well as the approval
and implementationo f an action plan for responding effectively to rapidpopulation growth.

30. Reform of the transportation sector: We have received World Bank support through
the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Projet de rihabilitation des infrastructures de transport,
PRIT) under Credit 3026 NIR, which was signed on January 8, 1998 and became effective on
May 12, 1998.       The Autonomous Road Maintenance Financing Fund (Caisse autonome de
financement de I'entretien routier, CAFER) i s one o f its main components. Despite the reforms
carried out since 1999, which were supposed to ensure its relative financial independence,
CAFER still has a problem o fresource availability due to major delays inrepayment o f the sums
due in connection with the levy on petroleum products. Thus, program execution in 2002 has
been sporadic, and governed by the speed o f transfers fiom the Treasury to CAFER. This
situation i s further complicated by the low level o f payments received in connection with the
Chamber o f Commerce's road toll concession (34 percent).           Finally, the administrative and
managerial autonomy accorded to CAFER require it to submit an annual balance sheet, as would
be the case with a for-profit company. However, CAFER only manages funds that are not
necessarily the proceeds o f its operations (since they often come from the Government), and that
it uses to pay the SMEs providing road works approved by the Roads Council (Conseil des
Routes.)

31. Implementationof the PRSP: This will be subject to systematic monitoring based on a set
o f meaningful poverty indicators and regularly-scheduled assessments involving all parties
involved in poverty reduction efforts. The various objectives of the PRSP will be progressively
reoriented on the basis o f results obtained and the population's expectations. Thus, an annual
updating of the strategy i s planned, in addition to an annual progress report and a general review
every three (3) years. In this connection, a proposal for a capacity-building program has been
drawn up, but its implementation i s still subject to certain institutional reforms, such as, in
particular, those concerned with converting the National Statistics Department (Direction de la
Statistique et des ComptesNationaux, DSCN) into a National Statistics Institute (Institut National
de la Statistique, INS) with new mandates and a special status that would allow it a certain
autonomy.      Monitoring o f PRS implementation requires a National Household Budget and

                                                                                               Annex 8
                                                 52

Consumption Survey (Enqugte nationale budget-consommation des me'nages, ENBC) for which
full financing has notyet beenarranged.

32. Privatization: An important area for government reform i s inthe area o f privatization. The
privatization o f the enterprises SONITEXTIL, OLANI and SNC i s complete. In the cases o f
SNE, SONITEL and SLMTP, a few residual measures remain to be taken. SONIDEP's
privatization program i s well advanced: a call for expressions o f interest has just been issued
(July 2003) and a list o f potential bidders was drawn up in end-August, 2003. As far as the other
enterprises are concerned, the program i s experiencing obvious delays for various reasons. In
addition, the program provides for the creation o f a Multisectoral Regulatory Authority (Autorite'
de Re'gulationMulti-sectorielle, ARM), which is to become operational by the end o f 2003.

33. Reform of the financial sector: The Government's program includes important financial
sector reforms. Aside from the harmonization o f national legislation with OHADA guidelines,
which will be carried out in the context o fjudicial system reform, financial sector reform entails:
the reorganization o f the National Postal and Savings Office (Office National des Postes et de
l'Epargne, ONPE); the restructuring o f commercial banks in which the Government has a stake;
an actuarial audit o f the social security fund (Caisse Nationale de Securite sociale, CNSS); and
the reform o f the insurance sector. Regarding the ONPE, the reforms involve the reorganization
of the postal branch and the creation o f a financial services affiliate o f the Post Office (Le., postal
checking accounts, or comptes-ch8quespostaux (CCP) and a National Savings Fund, or compte
national d 'e'pargne, CNE). The restructuring o f the banking system involves: the Commercial
Bank o f Niger (Banque Commerciale du Niger, BCN), the provisional administration o f which
could be lifted in September 2003; the credit agency Cre'dit du Niger (CDN) and the rural
financing support agency Caisse de Pr2ts aux Collectivite's Territoriales (CPCT), the new
provisional administration o f which i s currently drawing up a new schema for the separate
reorganization o f both agencies; and the Niger Islamic Trade and Investment Bank (Banque
Islamique du Niger pour le Commerce et l'lnvestissement), the strict oversight o f which by the
Banking Commission could be liftedin September 2003,

34. Micro-financing, which could make a direct contribution to rural development and to poverty
reduction efforts, i s receiving particular attention under a multi-donor project (funded by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development [IFAD] and French Cooperation), with support
from IDA'S Technical Assistance Project.             Interventions involve the oversight o f the
aforementioned institutions (including a financial audit o f each one and the strengthening o f the
micro-financing unit within the Ministry o f Finance), as well as the enhancement o f their
capacities.

IV. SPECIFIC MEASURESSUPPORTEDBY THE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PEAC11)

35. Several development partners are assisting the Government in implementing the
aforementioned measures and interventions. For example, the IMF i s involved in designing and
implementing macro-economic programs; the European Union i s supporting, in particular,
programs in education, health, regional integration (ie., within WAEMU), road infrastructure and
public finance reform; while the AfDB i s focusing its support on the budget cycle, from
preparation to parliamentary and judicial oversight, as well as on improving budget resource
allocation. In addition to their financial support, the World Bank, IMF and European Union are
providing the Government with technical assistance so that it can carry out the reforms under
favorable conditions.

                                                                                             Annex 8
                                                53

36. In order to help harmonize the various interventions and thus avoid duplication o f effort,
interventions under PEAC I1will focus on: improvement o f budget preparation; streamlining o f
budget execution; improved operational accounting, and improvement o f the monitoring and
evaluation o f budget execution; regular closure o f accounts; privatization and improvement o f the
regulatory framework; social development.

A. Budgetpreparation

37. With regardto budget preparation, the current environment i s characterized by the absence o f
a legally-mandated timetable, the only requirement being the adherence to the constitutional
obligation to submit the draft annual Budget Law at the opening o f the October session o f
Parliament devotedto the examination of said law; and the absence o f a medium-term perspective
interms of budget planning and preparation. Inorder to diminishthe uncertainties surrounding
the preparation o f the draft Budget Law and to improve the coherence o f macro-economic themes
and sectoral policies, an Arr2td was issued by the Minister o f Finance on September 9, 2003.
This document will clearly specify the timetable and responsibilities o f the various ministries
involved inthe budget development process. It will also afford an opportunity to define the steps
leading to the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (Cadrage de la Ddpense a Moyen Terme,
CDMT), which i s based upon the program budget approach.                In order to achieve this, a
transitional period will be required, during which the prerequisites for the smooth functioning o f
the new mechanism (e.g., equipping o f departments, training o f managers, programming tools,
technical assistance), as well as program budgets for all sectors, will be put inplace. With this in
mind, multi-year programs for the 2005-2007 period will be developed for the education and
health sectors and integrated into the macro-economic framework o f multi-year projections, in
accordance with C D M T procedures.       The Economic Management Support Group (Groupe
d 'Appui 2 la Gestion Economique, GAGE) set up with World Bank assistance, will play a critical
role in this process. The World Bank will harmonize its support for the modemization o f tools
and methods used to prepare the Appropriation Law with the interventions o f the other relevant
partners, and particularly with those o f the European Union and African Development Bank
Group.

38. Thus, in order to develop a more coherent, transparent, and effective budget preparation
process, which accommodates a longer-term perspective, the Govemment has decided to
undertake the following:

   To improve budget preparation: Issuance of a Arrgtb by the finance ministry outlining the
   budgetpreparation process, (e'tablissementdu budgetpluriannuelle) establishing the sequence
   and dates of actions as well as the role and responsibilities of all ministries, services and other
   actors involved in the budget preparation process; implementation of the newly adopted
   decree on the budgetpreparation process in thepreparation of the 2005 budget.
   To ensure adequate levels o f budgetary resources for priority sectors: An outline (esquisse de
   projet du budget) of preliminary recurrent budget spending for FY 2004 by the finance
   ministryfor the health, education and rural development sectors.
   To implement the newly adopted Arritb on the budget preparation process: Budget Law Loi de
   finance) FY 2004 reflects established priorities.
   To protect social sectors: Prepare base case 2004 budget proposalsfor the education, health
   and rural development sectors in line with the macroeconomic framework. Theseproposals
   should include a detailed list of core expenditure items to be protected in case of a revenue
   shortfall.

                                                                                            Annex 8
                                                 54

    To improve medium-term budget programming: Prepare Medium Term Expenditure
   Framework (MTEF) for 2005-07, including multi-year programsfor the education, health and
   rural development sectors, which will be linked to the multi-year projections of the
   macroecononomic framework, consistent with theMTEF.


B.Budget execution

39. Budget execution in Niger suffers from insufficient management and a shortage o f funds,
leadingto a lack o f control o f the budgets by the sector ministries. Analyses o f budget execution
find that the existing system suffers from several critical shortcomings. The complexity of the
expenditure circuit renders the oversight and monitoring o f budget execution difficult or even
impossible; the computerized chain o f expenditure i s restricted to the authorizing officer
(ordonnateur) alone, to the exclusion o f the other parties involved (e.g., credit administrators,
financial comptrollers, Treasury, etc.); the large accumulation o f payment arrears constitutes a
substantial obstacle to efficient management o f public finances; insufficient attention i s paid to
the cost-effectiveness criterion inthe awarding of public procurement contracts; there are blatant
inadequacies inthe handling o f expenditures at the regional level.

40. The reform o f public procurement, initiated in 2002 with the approval o f the new Code o f
Public Procurement, has continued in 2003 with the development of regulatory texts by a team o f
national experts. In addition, the Govemment will take all steps to establish and ensure the
regular functioning o f the new entity responsible for regulating public procurement. Finally, in
order to enhance transparency in the area o f public procurement, monthly information bulletins,
particularly on procurement, biddingand contracting procedures, will be published.

41. In the area o f procurement reform, in order to improve the efficiency, lack o f transparency,
and absence o f competition in the processing o f public contracts, as well as improve the
compliance with existing procedures, the Govemment has decided to undertake the following:

    To operationalize the new procurement code: Adoption of four Arrktds by thePnance ministry
    concerning the application of the Procurement Code focusing on certain thresholds;
    organization and role of committees; price variations; and the threshold requiring the review
    procedures); thepublication of a decree establishing the Agence de Regulation des March&
    Publics.

42. The computerization o f the chain o f expenditures will be extended upstream, to include the
transactions o f credit administrators and financial comptrollers, as well as downstream, to include
the stage at which the Treasury i s involved. Automation o f the expenditure circuit i s being carried
out under contract by the consulting firm Softline. Financing, heretofore provided by the World
Bank, will be complemented by the African Development Bank Group through an institutional
support project.

43. Regarding cash and budget management, the official creation o f a mechanism for
programming receipts and expenditures, via Administrative Circulars Nos.        000485 and 000486
dated July 29,2003 from the Ministry o f Finance and Economy, i s a significant step forward that
deserves to be consolidated through the following measures: 1) formalization o f the structure,
organization and flow o f the work, in order to increase the transparency o f the process; 2)
introduction of an effective instrument o f cash management (e.g., an official and unchanging
nomenclature, computerization o f conversion keys within the overall accounting framework);
3)strengthening o f links between the Ministry o f Finance and Economy and the DAAFs

                                                                                            Annex 8
                                                  55

(Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres) o f the spending ministries in order to
strike a balance between the ministries' needs in terms o f expenditure commitments and the
imperatives o f budget management.           The result will be consultation between financial
comptrollers and the DAAFs o f ministries within their purview, both prior to the meetings o f
entities responsible for cash management in order to gather and analyze needs, and after the
decisions o f these entities, inorder to implement said decisions.

44. Usingthis mechanism, the Government will establish a forecast that specifies and protects the
priority expenditures o f the spending ministries, and on the basis o f which resource allocation
priorities are determined.      Consistent with the quarterly Table o f Government Financial
Operations (Tableau des ope`rationsfinanciBres et e`conomiques)o f the IMF, this will allow the
Government to also initiate contact with its development partners with a view to seeking modes
o f cooperation that would progressively eliminate the unpredictability surrounding the
mobilization o f external aid.

45. In particular, in order to improve the transparency and predictability o f budget releases and
ensure that the core expenditures o f priority ministries are protected, the Government has decided
to undertake the following:

e To enhance budget execution and regularity o f releases: Establishment of a detailed cash
  allocation plan, which identi9es core expenditures of sectoral ministries and determines a
  mechanism toprotect these core expenditures as priorities in the cash allocation process. This
  cash allocation plan will be consistent with the PRSP priorities as expressed by the budget
  (salary payments, debt service,payment of expenditures related to the execution of theprogram
 financed with HIPC resources and payment of priority expenditure items in the social and
  infrastructure sectors).     The plan will be revised quarterly and disseminated among all
  ministries. I n operational terms, the line ministries will submit to the Finance Minister a line by
  line assessment of their priority expenditures (in the recurrent budget) deemed essential for
  proper functioning by September 2003. In case that ministries do not prepare such a list, the
  Finance Minister will designate the priority expenditures. Furthermore, a list of the priority
  expenditures of the non-priority ministries will be separately provided in a detailed annex to
  theplan and will be used in thefurther implementation of that plan.

0  To ensure appropriate implementation o f the cash allocation plan: Execution of government
  expenditure in thefirst quarter of 2004 in line withpriorities set in the cash allocation plan.

C.Improvement o f operational accounting and o f monitoring/evaluation o fbudget execution

46. The major reforms likely to help improve operational accounting and the monitoring and
evaluation o f budget execution have been under implementation since 2002. The reforms in
question are the new State's Chart o f Accounts (Plan comptable de I'Etat, PCE), designed in
2002 in accordance with WAEMU standards and under implementation since January 2003, and
the computerization o f the chain of expenditures. The objectives for the 2003-2004 period are to
consolidate accomplishments and to expand reforms to activities that have not yet been affected.
Under the PCE, the emphasis will be on: (i)     actual ownership of the instrument by the relevant
departments, through an acceleration o f knowledge transfer from the consultant, Softline, to
them; and (ii)  the gradual computerization o fpayment offices at the regional level,

47. Concerning the computerization o f the chain of expenditures, the objective i s eventually to
achieve complete automation o f administrative and accounting management o f the State budget,
as explained above. To this end, a gradual approach will be adopted, given the administration's

                                                                                         Annex 8
                                                 56

limited human resources and the uncertainties associated with the support o f certain partners.
Thus, in 2004, the integration o f credit administrators will be tested through the opening of a
"pilot room" at the Ministry o f Finance allowing them direct access to their commitment
proposals on the network of the General Budget Directorate. Three payment offices will likewise
be computerized in2003, with the rest scheduled to follow in2004.

48. In the area o f assessment, a review of public expenditure and public finance management
(PEMFAR) will be conducted, with the assistance of the World Bank and the EU. The review
will provide a diagnosis o f existing systems and capacities inpublic expenditure management, as
well as an analysis o f lessons learnt inprevious reform efforts. This action plan will consist o f
concrete set of recommendations for priority reform measures as well as for required human and
financial resources and timetables. This analysis will provide critical information on budget
outcomes, in particular regarding their poverty impact, and on lessons derived from program
implementation.

49. Inthis context, the Government has decided to undertake the following:

0   To put inplace a reformplan for budgetary and public finance management: Adoption by the
    council of ministers of an action plan concerning budgetary and Jinancial managementfor
    FY200.5, based on the recommendations of the Public Expenditure Management and
    Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) mission.



D.Budgetaryaccounts

50. Over the entire period from the latter half of the 1980s to the late 1990s, Niger's budgeting
system did not produce the official documents that sanction the end o f the fiscal year and its
definitive closure. The documents in question are the laws certifying budget execution (lois de
r2glement) and the operating accounts (comptes de gestion) that would make it possible to
conduct the external verifications that are responsibility o f the National Assembly (which exerts
parliamentary oversight) and the Audit and Fiscal Discipline Court (Chambre des comptes et de
discipline budgitaire) (which ensures judicial oversight). Between 2000 and 2002, in connection
with the public finance reorganization it initiated, the Government submitted draft laws certifying
budget execution for fiscal years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000 to the General Assembly, which
voted to approve them.

51. Operating accounts for those same fiscal years were submitted to the Audit and Fiscal
Discipline Court, which was able to authorize closure o f the 1997 books, despite its limited
human and technical resources. These efforts continued in 2003 with the elaboration o f the
operating accounts and draft law certifying budget execution for fiscal 2001. During 2003, the
law certifying budget execution for 2001 will be voted on by the General Assembly. Operating
accounts for 2002 will be submitted to the Audit and Fiscal Discipline Court during the last
quarter o f 2003.   In anticipation of this, the certificate of concordance between the budget
accounts o f the Treasury and those o f the General Budget Directorate (Direction Gdnirale du
Budget, DGB) has been produced on September 10, 2003. Finally, inthe beginning in 2004, the
Government will be completely up to date on the regular closure o f annual accounts, in
compliance with its obligations vis-A-visWAEMU.

                                                                                           Annex 8
                                                 57

52. In this context, in order to improve accountability and create a more proper and effective
auditing system, the Government has decided to undertake the following:

   To strengthen budgetary accountability: Complete the closing and auditing of accounts by: (i)
  closure of budgetary accountsfor 2002 (as evidenced by a Certificat de Concordance between
  thepublic accounts ("comptes de gestion    '7 of the Treasury and budgetary accounts ("comptes
  administratives 'y of the Budget Directorate; and ii) submission of the budget execution law
  ("Loi de R2glement'y for 2001 to the Chamber ofdccounts.

E.Privatization and improvement ofthe regulatory framework

53. Two key challenges for the government's program are the privatization o f SONIDEP and the
development o f a regulatory agency. The preparation o f SONIDEP for privatization during the
second half o f 2003 will be accelerated, and the various modalities will be undertaken to prepare
it for   sale. In addition,    in order to strengthen the regulatory frameworks of the
telecommunications, energy (i-e., electricity, hydrocarbons, etc.), water and transportation sectors,
the Government will take all necessary steps to render the Multisectoral Regulatory Authority
(ARM) operational.      The Government has allocated CFAF 50 million in this regard. The
Government has also decided to transfer the task o f setting petroleumprices at the pump from the
MinistryofTrade to the ARM.

54. In this context, in order to accelerate the privatization process and to strengthen the
environment for private sector development, the Government has decided to undertake the
following:

e   To successfully conclude SONIDEP privatization: SONIDEP is brought to thepoint of sale

e   To render ARM operational: Preparing a short list of at least two eligible candidatesfor each
    of thepositions of thefour directorsfor A M , namely :(a) the director in charge of energy,
    (8) the director in charge of telecommunications, (e) the director in charge of water, and (d)
    the director in charge of transportation.


F.SocialSectors
55. Inaccordance with the poverty reduction strategy, the Government has guaranteed, since the
2001 budget execution law, the budget credits needed to achieve the goal o f boosting social
indicators interms o f budget forecasting and execution. This policy will be strictly followed over
the 2003/2004 period, with the identificationo f a minimumsocial program to be executed during
thefirst quarter o f 2004, in accordance with priorities set out in the cash forecast mentioned in
para. 45. The Government will send a letter to the World Bank certifying that expenditures have
been made incompliance with the priorities contained inthe cash forecast.

56. In addition, the Government maintains its pledge to give precedence to the recruitment o f
contractuals to enhance capacities inthe education and health sectors. Inthis connection, at least
2,000 contractual education workers will be recruited for the 2003/2004 academic year. With
regard to management, the authorities will implement a policy aimed at an eventual increase in
managerial autonomy for health care facilities and schools. For this purpose, a pilot program o f
direct performance-based resource allocation to health districts will be approved no later than
March 2004. Inthe area o f training, the applicationtext determining the regulatory framework for
the &ole normales (ENI's) has been approved by the Government on September 10, 2003. In

                                                                                         Annex 8
                                                  58

order to deal with the high rate o f population growth, the Government will undertake a vast
outreach campaign on demographic issues and their economic, social and health-related
implications.

57. In sum, in order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f social sector spending and
successfully implement the reform program, the Government has decided to undertake the
following:

0 To strengthen the training o f teachers: Adoption o f Decree approving the by-laws (les statuts)
   providing for the application o f a regulatory framework for Niger's Ecoles Normales.

0  To increase the number o f primary school teachers: Recruit 2702 contractual primary school
   teachers for the school year 2003-2004.

0 To strengthen management o f health care facilities: Adoption o f a pilot program providing for
   direct fundingo f selected healthdistricts through performance contracts.


V. CONCLUDINGREMARKS

58. The proposed credit will help Niger meet its external financing requirements and i s fully
consistent with IDA'SCountry Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board inJanuary, 2003. The
Credit directly contributes to the maintenance o f a stable macroeconomic framework conducive
to economic growth by helpingto bridge the financing gap associated with implementation o f the
PRSP. Reforming budget management will ensure that the Government's budget priorities are
fully in line with the PRSP priorities and faithfully reflected in actual cash releases to the line
ministries. Improving basic service delivery will help meet the needs o f the poor and other
vulnerable groups. Improving the environment for private sector will be conducive to private-
sector-led growth and thereby create income-eaming opportunities for the poor. In sum, the
proposedCredit will have an impact on Niger's growth and development strategy.




                                           Yours sincerely,




                                     ALIBADJO GAMATIE

                                    MINISTER OF FINANCE






4

