Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3721-BA
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 23.7 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
SECOND WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
February 15, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT S
SDR 1.00        =      Kyat (K) 8.51
US$1.00         =      K 7.88
K 1.00          =      US$0.127
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)        =       About 1.28 cubic feet (cu ft) irue
geometric measure for roundwood
1 hoppus ton (H ton)              About 50 HF in round logs,
equivalent to 1.4 to 1.8 cubic
meters (m3) of wood under bark
1 sawn ton (S ton)        =       50 cu ft of sawnwood, or 1.4 m3
1 metric ton (mt)         =       2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
CC      -  Construction Corporation, Ministry of Construction
CP      -  Cooperative Program (FAO/IBRD)
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD      -  Forest Department, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
FINNIDA - Finland's International Development Agency
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
H tons  -  Hoppus tons
MAF     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
PPAR    -  Project Performance Audit Report
PU      -  Project Unit
S ton   -  Sawnwood tons
SEE     -  State Economic Enterprise
TC      -  Timber Corporation, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
SECOND WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Development Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:             The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
Beneficiary:          The Timber Corporation (TC).
Amount:               Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 23.7 million
(US$25 million equivalent).
Terms:                Standard.
Relending Terms:      15 years including five years' grace with interest: at
8.5% per annum. TC will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:      The main objectives of the second project will be to:
(a) improve further the efficiency and product quality
of Burma's export oriented teak processing industry
through modernization and rehabilitation of existing
capacity; (b) improve the supply of hardwood sawn timber
and panel products to the domestic market and thereby
reduce the use of teak for construction purposes in the
domestic market; (c) introduce production of block board
production for the fist time in Burma; and (d) advance
further the technical and export marketing skills of teak
processing industry personnel, through training and
technical assistance.
The proposed project, implemented over five years,
would continue the program undertaken in the First; Wood
Industries Project (Credit 1114-BA - the First Project)
and would include: (a) rehabilitation of teak sawmill
No. 4 at Ahlone to saw about 45,000 H tons per annum of
teak logs using modern band saw technology; (b) recon-
struction of a teak sawmill No. 14 at Dallah to saw
45,000 H tons of teak logs also using modern band saw
technology; (c) construction of a new panel products
mill at Monywa to produce 4,000 cu m plywood and 1,000
cu m teak veneer annually, and to introduce block board
production on a pilot scale; (d) construction of two
mobile hardwood sawmills with annual throughput capacity
of 10,000 H tons to be located in north Pegu area;
(e) provision of consulting services to assist TC in the
areas of saw doctoring, panel products production and
production planning and control and on the job training
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
of TC personnel; and (f) strengthening of administra-
tive and construction facilities.
Risks                 Both implementation and market risks are minimal since
the proposed project is the second IDA assisted wood
industries project and is based on the good implementa-
tion experience of the First Project. TC wood products
have excellent demand and TC has managed to increase
revenues even in a recessionary world economy.
Estimated
Project Cost:                                     US$ Million
Local       Foreign         Total
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation                 3.8          5.2            9.0
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction                 7.1          8.3           15.4
Panel Products Mill                         8.3         10.3           18.6
Hardwood Mills in Pegu Area                 0.4          0.5            0.9
Technical Assistance and Training             -          0.6            0.6
Strengthening Administrative Support
and Construction                          1.5          0.7            2.2
Incremental Working Capital                 1.1           -             1.1
Base Cost  22.2         25.6           47.8
Physical Contingencies                      1.6          1.4            3.0
Price Contingencies                         2.7          3.9            6.6
Total Project Cost  26.5          30.9           57.4
Less Taxes and Duties                      14.0            -           14.0
Total Net Project Cost  12.5          30.9           43.4
Financing Plan:
IDA                                           -        25.0            25.0
TC                                         26.4            -           26.4
FINNIDA                                       -          6.0            6.0
26.4        31.0           57.4



-iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   US$ Million
IDA FY      FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Annual        4.1  14.6   5.0   1.0   0.3
Cummulative  4.1  18.7  23.7  24.7  25.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       25%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 4596-BA, dated December 23, 1983.
Map:               IBRD Map No. 17205.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURUMA
FOR A SECOND WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for
Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 23.7 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Wood Industries Project. FINNIDA
would make a grant of US$6 million. The proposed Credit amount would be
onlent to the Timber Corporation (TC) for a term of 15 years, including five
years of grace, and at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum. TC will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.      The latest economic report entitled (Burma:  Priorities for Continued
Growth" (Report No. 3852-BA, dated May 7, 1982) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on May 10, 1982. Country data are presented in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
government in 1962 and vested authority in a revolutionary council. There-
after, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December
1973, creating the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) with supreme executive,
legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program Party
(BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The Govern-
ment's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The Burmese
Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values and
socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-Year
Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through
a succession of Four-Year Plans. U Ne Win, who had been President since
1962, announced his resignation just prior to the national election in
November 1981 and was succeeded by U San Yu, former Secretary General of the
BSPP. Insurgency remains a problem, particularly in the hills and border
areas, although there is definitely greater territorial control by the
Government now than at any time since Independence in 1948.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. 3682-BA) dated November 22, 1983 for a
Textile Finishing Plant Project in Burma. The report was distributed
to the Executive Directors under cover of the Secretary's memorandum
IDA/R 83-121.



-2-
4.      During the 1960s and the early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political goals, particularly in
terms of existing public ownership and Burmese control of economic institu-
tions. On the other hand, economic performance suffered over this period,
the major features being slow growth, a fall in domestic savings and a
shrinking of the external sector. In recognition of this poor economic
performance, the Government came up with a new development strategy in 1972
with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan. The main objectives of the
Plan are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist system,
to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency by converting from an
agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The main elements of this
strategy are: (a) to give higher priority initialy to the directly produc-
tive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to make
greater use of aid, trade, and to a lesser extent technical assistance;
(c) to follow a price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction,
through increased efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture;
and (d) introduce work incentives and commercial principles, especially in
the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).
5.      A wide range of policy reforms followed the publication of the
Twenty-Year Plan. While pricing policy still reflected the desire to provide
basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, procurement prices of
a variety of agricultural products were raised substantially to improve the
economic position of the farmer. In industry, the Government increased the
ex-factory prices for many of the SEEs. Meanwhile, the official exchange
rate was devalued and the interest rate on savings deposits raised. In
addition to these pricing reforms the Government introduced a major tax
reform designed to restore the country's public finance to a sound basis.
6.      In part, as a result of these measures, and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
during the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) increased by an annual
average of 4.7%, compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed
capital formation increased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic
savings as a percent of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary provision
of the Government lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in
turn, contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation.
7.      The growth momentum was sustained through the Third Four Year Plan
period (1978/79-1981/82). During this time, Burma achieved an average annual
GDP growth of 6.5% in real terms, accompanied by rising export and stable
prices. This favorable performance has been largely due to (a) steadily
rising agricultural production, resulting mainly from the Government's intro-
duction of high-yielding varieties; (b) higher capacity utilization primarily
in industry; and (c) rapid increases in investment, particularly in the
public sector.
8.      The Government's introduction of an agricultural intensification
program, the Whole Township Program, has contributed to a revitalization of
agriculture in Burma in recent years. This Program, extended now to about 80
townships, has a number of unique features, including the participation of
the People's Councils in coordinating production and procurement; selectivity
and concentration through a campaign-type approach; mobilization of the



-3-
community to provide additional labor; and the priority provision of consumer
goods to project areas to complement rising incomes. Program coverage for
paddy, expanded from 2% of paddy-sown area in 1977/78 to 51% in 1981/82;
during this period, paddy production increased by about 50%. The Whole
Township Program has also been extended to other crops, including groundnuts,
maize, wheat, sesame, cotton, beans and pulses with good results. The focus
of the Government's agricultural program over the next few years will be on
the consolidation of past grains in paddy, with particular emphasis on
quality improvements in export rice, and further extension off the Whole
Township Program to non-paddy crops. There are indications that the dramatic
increases in agricultural production in recent years have highlighted the
bottlenecks in complementary transportation, handling, storage and milliLng
facilities. In the coming years, the Government will have to deal with these
bottlenecks through investments in additional capacity.
9.      Benefitting from increased domestic supplies of agricultural raw
materials as well as from a steady growth of intermediate good imports,
capacity utilization in the light and agro-based industries in the public
sector has improved. The increased level of economic activity during this
period is also reflected in the higher gross domestic capital formation., The
share of investment in GDP in constant prices increased from 15% in 1978/79
to 17% in 1981/82. On the other hand, the rapid expansion of public invest-
ment, which accounts for 70% of the total, has been largely responsible for
the widening in the overall budgetary deficit from 10% of GDP in 1978/79 to
an estimated 17% in 1981/82. Public savings have shown only a modest growth,
and the increasing deficit has been financed by large increases in external
assistance and domestic credit.
10.     Over the same period, merchandise exports increased in nominal terms
by 19% per annum, though the export growth in 1981/82, the last year of the
Third Four Year Plan period, was adversely affected by a sharp decline in the
international price of rice. Merchandise imports increased in current prices
by 20% annually. The current account deficit stabilized at about 6% of GDP,
and net disbursements of loans at around US$350-400 million a year. The
relatively small current account deficit reflects the Government's conserva-
tive approach to balance-of-payments management, not the real import needs of
the country. The Government controls all imports through a foreign exchange
budget, drawn up in accordance with anticipated financing. Although foreign
exchange availabilities have improved, shortages of imported intermediate and
consumer goods still remain.
11.     The Government's planned annual GDP growth for the Fourth Four Year
(1982/83-1986/87) Plan is 6.2%. In order to attain this ambitious target,
the Government needs to achieve: (a) continued success in the development
of the agricultural sector; (b) further improvements in capacity utilization
especially in industry; (c) a judicious choice of investment projects; and
(d) sufficient resources - both foreign and domestic - to expand the invest-
ment program at the required rate. Over the medium term, rice exports will
undoubtedly continue to be the mainstay for Burma's foreign exchange earn-
ings. However, the Government's longer term strategy is to broaden the
country's export base through agricultural diversification and promotion of
agro-based industries, to reduce Burma's reliance on rice and teak and to
insulate the economy progressively from the international rice fluctuations
of less processed primary commodity exports.



-4-
12.     Moreover, in order to maintain the growth momentum, the Government
will need to expand absorptive capacity for external assistance by emphasiz-
ing institution building and management development to a much greater extent
than in the past. The Burmese planning and administrative system, as it now
exists, is complex and rigid in its manner of operation and appears to focus
excessively on the formulation of targets. Streamlining of the entire plan-
ning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision-making, and
strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and imple-
ment projects are urgently needed.
13.     Burma's debt service ratio increased from 13% in the 1977/78 to about
28% in 1981/82, due primarily to a substantial increase in the loans from
private financial institutions and suppliers' credits. By March 1982,
Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately
US$1.6 billion. Burma's exports have been showing steady growth in recent
years, but the prospects over the medium term is less favorable. According
to the World Bank's price projections, Burma's term of trade which had
deteriorated during the last two years would, at best, recover slowly over
the next four years. Moreover, because of the rising debt service burden and
because of Burma's low income level, external assistance should continue to
be on concessionary terms and should, in addition, finance part of local cost
requirements which cannot, at present, be covered adequately by domestic
savings. Local cost financing is particularly needed for the agricultural
sector where most investments have a low foreign exchange component.
14.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a rela-
tively healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the quality
with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank continues
to discuss with the Government further improvements in economic management
which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic develop-
ment as well as external assistance requirements. Discussions on these
topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma
Aid Group meetings which the Bank has organized at the Government's request.
The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and
there have been four subsequent meetings, with indications of increasing
donor supporting each year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.     Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
procurement of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
16.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973 and since then 23 credits totaling about US$609 million equivalent
(net of cancellations) have been made. About 60% of this assistance was for
the agricultural sector, consisting of twelve projects: irrigation pumps,
rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects,



-5-
grain storage, two forestry projects, a wood industries project, the Kinda
Dam multipurpose project, and a tank irrigation project. About 12% of IDA's
assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector through four
projects, namely inland water transport, railways, a second ports project and
a construction industry project. The renainng 28% of IDA assistance has been
for two projects in the telecommunications sector (10%), one project in the
mining sector (3%) and a power project (15%). Six credits have been fully
disbursed so far. On the resumption of operations in 1973 there were some
difficulties with disbursement performance. However, performance has
improved considerably particularly as agencies, such as the Irrigation
Department, have become more famliar with the Bank's procedures. In general,
IDA-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30,
1983. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
17.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through the
ongoing projects and sector work, the Association's knowledge of many sectors
has improved. A US$4.1 million UNDP technical assistance project (Burma
Umbrella Project), for which the Bank is the executing agency, has developed
a project pipeline suitable for external financing in priority sectors such
as agriculture, transport, power, and industry. Several projects, namely,
Seed Development, Rubber Rehabilitation, Power Transmission, Construction
Industry, Third Port and Groundwater Irrigation were prepared under the
Umbrella Project, which is now in its third phase. Furthermore, the Associa-
tion plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis
to help further strengthen Burmese project preparation and implementation
capabilities, as well as administrative and managerial skills through
in-service and overseas training.
18.     The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying
production for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the
development of agriculture and forestry and where possible, priority is being
given to quick-yielding projects. Projects under preparation include grain
storage and seed development, irrigation rehabilitation and forestry. At the
same time, financing of infrastructure improvements will continue in the
development of power and such areas as water supply, industry, telecommunica-
tions, and construction, mainly to rehabilitate and maximize utilization of
existing facilities. In near term, projects are being developed to reduce
transport bottlenecks from areas of production for principal export com-
modities, namely, rice and timber. IDA's involvement through the proposed
Second Wood Industries Project is for purposes of continuing the productivity
in this large export sector which directly affects the economic well being of
the country. The project would improve further efficiency and product
quality of export teak processing industry and local supply of hardwood sawn
timber and panel boards. The project will address policy, technical, finan-
cial and management issues which are central to the proper performance of
state enterprises in Burma.



-6-
19.     The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service.  In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE FORESTRY AND FOREST INDUSTRIES SECTOR
Background
20.     Burma is well endowed with forest resources which cover almost
half of its 167 M ac land area. Burma's relatively low population density
(120 per sq. mile) and growth rate (2.2%) have helped against any significant
encroachment on the forest area which has consequently declined by less than
0.1% per year; mostly around population centers where a shortage of firewood
is now developing. The reserved forest area (24 M ac) is away from popula-
tion centers and has increased at about 0.4% per annum during the last five
years. Forest Department aims to increase the reserved forest from the
current 14% to 30% of the total land area.
21.     Forestry activities account for less than 3% of GDP in current
prices. However, the sector is much more important in export trade where it
has traditionally been the second largest foreign exchange earner and in
FY81/82 forest products earned about K 696 M. The sector is an important
source of funds for the national budget and made a net contribution of about
K 600 M to public sector resources in the form of royalties, taxes, duties
and surplus in FY81/82. Forest products provide a high proportion of rural
energy consumption through firewood and charcoal. The rural population is
also dependent on forest products such as bamboo for housing construction.
The sector provides total permanent employment to about 160,000 persons of
which 40,000 are employed by the Timber Corporation (TC). Forests are also
important ecologically and play a significant role in protecting Burma's
watersheds, preventing soil erosion and ensuring a sustained flow of water.
Forest Management and Extraction
22.     All forest land in Burma is owned by the State, and the Forest
Department (FD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) is primarily
responsible for its management. FD, which was founded in 1856, manages
Burmese forests in accordance with the Forest Act of 1881 as amended in 1902
and 1941. The Act authorized creation of reserved forests, where teak forms
about 10% of growing stock. FD sets annual allowable cuts currently about
360,000 Hoppus (H) tons for teak and 2.1 M H tons for other hardwood. To
protect against localized overcutting, the Government has also set a minimum
girth of 7 ft. 6 in. for dry teak extraction and 6 It. 6 in. for green teak.
Timber extraction reached a peak of 1.3 M H tons in 1972/73 but declined
after that to a low of 1.0 M H tons in 1975/76 due to shortage of extraction
equipment and fuel. Since then IDA assisted Forestry I and II Projects (Cr.
493-BA and Cr. 949-BA) and the ADB assisted Sagaing Forestry and Second
Forestry Projects have provided substantial assistance to help restore teak
and other hardwood logs extraction levels to about 1.4 M H ton in 1981/82.
After extraction, FD assesses royalties on the logs extracted at rates of K
200/H ton for teak and K 15-30/H ton for other hardwoods. The Government
also receives substantial contributions from wood industries operations
through export tax of about K 1100/H ton and local tax of about K 110/H ton.



-7-
The combined royalty and tax level is higher than in most other timber
exporting countries.  FD also has a forest plantation program under which
about 170,000 acres of teak and about 80,000 acres of other hardwood species
have been planted. The program is supported in part by the IDA assisted
Forestry II Project (Cr. 949-BA), and is expected to increase teak supply in
future. A project with a significant forest plantation component is cur-
rently being prepared for possible IDA assistance.
Wood Processing Industries
23.     Background.  Burma has a long history of wood processing industries
dating back to at least the late seventeenth century. British timber com-
panies established extensive teak sawmilling operations about a hundred years
ago and many of the sawmills which were established then are still in opera-
tion. As a result of this long history, Burmese sawmill workers are skilled
and experienced, but at the same time many of the sawmills are old and well
beyond their economic life. The Government is giving high priority to the
development of wood processing industries most of which are in the state
sector under TC. TC is a Government-owned state enterprise in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests.
24.     Hardwood Sawmilling.  There are about 185 hardwood (other than teak)
sawmills with a total capacity of about 600,000 H tons, out of which about
40% are owned by TC and the rest by the private sector. IDA assisted First
and Second Forestry Projects and ADB assisted forestry projects are providing
about US$21 million worth of equipment and spares for rehabilitation and
expansion of TC hardwood sawmilling capacity. The private mills are allowed
to do primary sawing only for TC on a piece-work basis.  The output of these
mills goes almost entirely to the local market with less than 5% being
exported.
25.     Teak Sawmilling in Burma is now reserved for the public sector, with
only custom resawing permitted in the private sector. Therefore, all the 20
teak sawmills with 275,000 H ton annual capacity are owned and operated by
TC. But most of these mills (about 62%) are more than 40 years old. They
employ circular saws with wide kerf which results in a significant amount of
the valuable teak wood being wasted as excessive sawdust. Newer technology,
using bandmills with narrower kerf can increase recovery percentage from the
present 43% to 46% Hoppus. Therefore, there is a significant scope for
improving efficiency, output volume and quality through the modernization of
the Burmese teak sawmills. The IDA assisted on-going First Wood Industries
Project (Cr. 1114-BA) will replace and upgrade 105,000 H ton of existing
sawmilling capacity, and the proposed Second Project would upgrade another
90,000 H ton capacity. The best quality teak sawnwood produced by these
mills is exported which in 1981/82 was about 71,000 sawn (S) ton, worth about
US$45 M. The lowest grades of teak sawnwood are sold at lower prices to meet
the high local demand for teak because of a shortage of durable hardwood
sawnwood. In 1981/82, local teak sawnwood sales were about 75,000 S ton,
worth about US$12 M.
26.     Plywood and Veneer Production.  Burma has three plywood and veneer
mills operated by TC. The mills produce teak veneer and plywood with an
estimated capacity of about 13,000 cubic meters.  The capacity utilization is
only about 50% due to frequent breakdowns. The wornout machines also waste



-8-
raw materials resulting in a very low outturn of about 20%. TC is, there-
fore, planning to close one plymill and rehabilitate the other two mills
under the First Project. In 1978/79 about 18 M sq ft of 5/32" thick plywood
panels worth about US$3.3 M were sold locally. Low production volume and
poor quality have prevented any significant exports. Production level and
product quality is being improved under the First Wood Industries Project and
further assistance would be provided under the proposed Project.
27.     Furniture and Flooring Products.  Burma has one factory complex for
the production of furniture and flooring products. The factory produced
about 26,000 pieces of furniture and special items in 1978/79 worth about
US$0.7 M. In addition, flooring products such as teak parquet mosaic and
lamparquet components worth US$0.3 M were also produced. Most of the furni-
ture has traditionally been sold within Burma and the flooring products
outside Burma. In line with Government's policy to sell more teak in
processed form, TC is now making increased efforts to export furniture by
improving product quality and marketing. TC has reached agreement with firms
from Denmark, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore for technical and marketing
assistance. Further, TC is rehabilitating and expanding production capacity
of furniture and flooring products under the First Project.
28.     Pricing Policy.  Export prices for wood products are set by TC, which
is the sole Burmese exporter of those products.  TC has a monopolistic posi-
tion in world teak markets, supplying virtually all of teak logs and 70% of
teak conversions entering international markets. Prior to 1978/79, TC
management instituted sharp price increases in an unpredictable manner. This
led to a contraction of teak markets as many consumers switched to other
hardwoods. Since 1978/79, TC has developed a more systematic pricing policy
with revisions in export price being made only once every year in April. The
market is informed about price changes sufficiently in advance and the price
increases have been moderate at about 10%, which is only about 2 to 3% above
inflation. As a result, TC has been able to regain most of its customers.
The current average export price for teak logs is K 4,900 per H ton and for
teak sawnwood - K 5,500 per S ton, which is about 5% higher than the
Indonesian teak price and reflects the quality premium for Burmese teak. The
Government allows TC to set local prices of wood products so as to cover the
standard cost of production with a 10% extra allowance for profit. For wood
products such as lower grades of teak, sawnwood, plywood and furniture, the
cost based formula yields reasonable prices when compared with export prices.
However, the average price for the construction grade hardwoods sold on local
markets is about K 800 per S ton. That compares with an equivalent export
price of about K 1,640 per S ton and local free market price of K 2,500 per S
ton. Thus, official prices for hardwood sawnwood are low and do not reflect
its opportunity cost. The Government, believing that increasing local
hardwood prices at this time would fuel inflation, has encouraged increased
use of cheaper substitutes such as plywood, whose production would be
increased by about 36% under the proposed project. Transfer prices of
sawnwood and plywood within TC have recently been revised upwards under the
First Wood Industries Project and log prices are currently being reviewed.



-9-
Other Forest Industries
29.     Other forest industries include bamboo based pulp and paper manufac-
ture, firewood and charcoal production, and other activities such as resin,
wax and lac production. Firewood and charcoal production of about 15 M H
tons is mostly in the private sector with pulp and paper production mostly in
the state sector. Manufacturing facilities consist of an integrated pulp and
paperboard mill, and a waste-paper paperboard mill but the production of
about 23,000 tons per annum meets only about two-thirds of Burma's paper
product consumption. The Government, assisted by consultants financed under
the IDA project preparation facility, is now preparing a pulp and paper
project for possible IDA financing.
Project Implementation Performance
30.     TC is the beneficiary of three IDA credits (Cr. 493-BA, Cr. 949-BA
and Cr. 1114-BA) for two forestry projects and one wood industries project.
The First Forestry Project has been completed and a project performance audit
report is being prepared. Initial implementation problems relating to con-
sultant hiring, vehicle procurement and diesel supply have been overcome and
project unit output is now excellent. Consequently, the project Economic
Rate of Return is estimated to be above 50%, and the net present value (at
10% discount rate) is 18% higher than SAR estimates. Benefitting from the
first forestry project experience, progress of the Second Forestry Project
(effective December 20, 1979) has been excellent and total log extraction
volume to-date of 1.2 M H tons is ahead of appraisal target of 1.1 M H tons.
To cope with excessive hardwood log inventories, TC is increasing hardwood
milling capacity and also reducing hardwood extraction to match existing
milling capacity. TC is also making excellent progress under the First Wood
Industries Project (effective June 25, 1981). The machinery for three of
the five project mills has already arrived and is being installed. Some
problems with local supply of cement were experienced, but the Government is
addressing this problem by banning cement exports and increasing production
capacity. Project construction is expected to be completed on schedule in
1985.
31.     The following lessons were learnt from these projects:
(a)  The establishment of project implementation units within
TC proved very effective. It helped in starting geographic
decentralization of this large corporation with operations
spread throughout Burma, and at the same time it allowed
better cross-functional (logging and milling) co-ordination
and integration at regional levels;
(b)  New and more efficient operating systems for log extraction
and transport were developed under the First Forestry Project
and are being used in other areas. Decentralized and opera-
tionally oriented accounting systems are helping to improve
decision making and cost control at regional level. The
reporting and auditing targets under the first forestry project
were too ambitious and more realistic targets are now being
used;



-10-
(c) Due to lack of previous experience, TC was unable to recruit
good quality international consultants and supervise and
co-ordinate their activities. Consequently, technical assist-
ance design has been modified to obtain the services of one
consulting firm which then provides, supervises and co-ordinates
the many individual specialists required;
(d) The forest feasibility studies prepared under the First
Forestry Project provided detailed background information
which formed the basis for future development in the forestry
sector;
(e) Though overall equipment procurement was satisfactory, in some
cases problems with incompatible equipment were experienced.
The First Wood Industries Project, therefore, experimented with
larger bidding packages and turn-key contracts. The experience
so far is very favorable; the fear that larger packages might
lessen competition and increase costs was not warranted. The
approach has helped ensure equipment compatibility and greater
technical input from suppliers in design, installation and
start-up. TC also agreed to allocate funds to advertise more
widely through trade journals in different countries. The
response has been very favourable, producing more bids, keener
competition and lower cost; and
(f) The overseas training program in previous projects has been
successful in familiarizing TC personnel with the latest
developments in technology. It has helped make TC more out-
ward looking and receptive to new ideas. This has facilitated
a faster modernization of the sector than would have been
possible otherwise.
Overall the project implementation performance of TC has been good and the
lessons learnt from previous projects would be used in further improving
performance under the proposed Second Wood Industries Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.     Since 1974, the Government and TC have embarked on a rehabilitation
and modernization program for the forest and forest industries sector with
forestry and wood industries projects assisted by IDA and ADB. The proposed
second project was identified and discussed with TC during an IDA supervision
mission in late 1981. This was followed by project preparation in 1982 with
assistance from FAO/CP. A Staff Appraisal Report is being distributed
separately. A timetable of key events relating to the project and special
conditions are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. from November 14 to 18, 1983. The Burmese delegation was led by His
Excellency U Ye Goung, Minister of Agriculture and Forests.



-11-
Project Objectives and Description
33.     The main objectives of the second project would be to:
(a) improve further the efficiency and product quality of Burma's
export oriented teak processing industry through modernization
and rehabilitation of existing capacity;
(b) improve the supply of hardwood sawn timber and panel products
to the domestic market and thereby reduce the use of teak
for construction purposes in the domestic market;
(c) introduce block board production for the first time in Burma; and
(d) strengthen further the technical and export marketing skills of
teak processing industry personnel.
34.     The proposed project, implemented over a five-year period, would
include:
(a) rehabilitation of teak sawmill No. 4 at Ahlone to saw about
45,000 H tons per annum of teak logs using modern band saw
technology;
(b) reconstruction of teak sawmill No. 14 at Dallah to saw 45,000 H
tons of teak logs also using modern band saw technology;
(c) construction of a new panel products mill at Monywa to produce
4,000 cu m plywood and 1,000 cu m teak veneer annually, and to
introduce block board production on a pilot scale;
(d) construction of two mobile hardwood sawmills with annual
throughput capacity of 10,000 H tons to be located in north
Pegu area;
(e) strengthening and modernizing of technical and marketing skills
of wood industry personnel; and
(f) improvement of administrative and technical facilities.
The Timber Corporation (TC)
35.     TC is a Government-owned corporation, formed under the State Timber
Board Act of 1950 in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. TC is respon-
sible for (a) extraction of teak and hardwood logs; (b) operation of most of
the wood processing industries in Burma including all teak sawmills, plywood
and veneer mills, furniture and flooring products factories; and
(c) marketing of wood products, both within and outside Burma. TC is a large
corporation with about 40,000 full time employees and 600 professional staff.
Following the new commercialization guidelines for State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs), TC's setup was modified in 1976 into a matrix organization. TC's
practice to establish project units (PU) to implement externally assisted
major development projects has been very successful and TC intends to use



-12-
similar arrangements for the proposed project. In the past, TC's management
concentrated mainly on extraction without due emphasis on wood processing
industries and marketing. Exports declined sharply because of poor product
quality and inadequate marketing efforts. Export volume of teak sawnwood
declined by 40% over five years ending in 1977/78, and, of teak logs by 15%.
In 1977/78, under a new managing director with stronger marketing and
processing background, adequate attention has been devoted to these functions
and the export volumes of processed wood products and logs had increased to
71,000 S tons and 73,000 H tons respectively in 1981/82, thereby recouping
previous declines.
36.     TC, like most SEEs, had very little operational autonomy until 1975,
when new guidelines for SEEs gave some financial and operational autonomy,
allowed use of incentives to encourage better performance, and acknowledged
that SEEs should make a profit. The price revisions made at that time
together with increased operational autonomy improved the financial viability
of most SEEs including TC. Prices have been allowed to increase to cover
costs and return a profit of around 10% on sales. However, substantial
central control remains. Price increases, production targets, and main
investment decisions require Cabinet approval, which is time consuming.
Project Implementation
37.     The proposed project would be implemented by a project unit (PU)
which would be established within TC. A similar organizational structure was
followed in earlier projects implemented by TC and found to be successful.
PU would continue to operate after project construction has been completed in
order to handle initial operation of the project mills and form the nucleus
for a wood industries department to be created within TC. PU would be headed
by a Project Director who would be assisted by a team of consultants provided
under the technical assistance program. Formation of the PU within TC and
appointment of a Project Director and two Deputy Directors for PU would be a
condition of credit effectiveness [Sections 3.06 and 7.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement (DCA)]. The project mills are at present
managed by generalists and do not have any engineers responsible for
industrial engineering functions such as production and quality control.
Consequently, these functions are neglected and cause low capacity utiliza-
tion, high material wastage, and low product quality. TC would appoint at
least one engineer with mechanical or industrial engineering background in
each of the project teak sawmills and at the panel products mill by the time
these mills become operational around end March 1987 and make them respon-
sible for production and quality control (Section 3.07 of the draft DCA). TC
would be able to hire such engineers graduating from the Rangoon Institute of
Technology. These engineers would be assisted and trained by foreign con-
sultants under the technical assistance program. TC currently has about
44,000 sanctioned posts but the new mills would require additional 556 posi-
tions by the time the project construction and installation are completed.
The three support units, administration, finance and audit, along with PU
office would have about 110 positions. Most of these would be filled with
experienced staff from TC headquarters.
38.     The major civil works would be undertaken by the Construction
Corporation (CC) under a contractual agreement with terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.08 of the draft DCA). The design section



-13-
within CC would prepare detailed construction drawings. CC would undertake
construction using the existing First Project's construction unit in Rangoon
and the Sagaing Forestry Project construction unit at Monywa. CC would
assign a project coordinator, by July 31, 1984, to coordinate construction
work amongst PU, CC's design section and the project construction units
(Section 3.09 of the draft DCA).
Technical Assistance and Training
39.     TC operates a central training school for workers in Rangoon, but the
training school has few permanent staff and therefore relies solely on prac-
tical training in the mills. A UNDP financed and FAO executed training
project is currently strengthening local training by setting up a training
school and developing training skills within TC. The proposed project would
further strengthen the technical skills of TC staff by providing about 26
man-months of consulting services and 111 man-months of foreign training. A
suitable consulting firm, with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
would provide assistance in areas of saw doctoring, panel products produc-
tion, and production planning and control. The firm would also provide
short-term consultancy and backstopping in problem areas not covered by
experts in the field. The consultants would also impart on-the-job training
to project staff of TC, and for that purpose the consultants would prepare
operational manuals and other training material. They would also help in
arranging more intensive overseas technical training visits for about 35
staff members who would be sent abroad for courses lasting from three to six
months each.
Financial Performance
40.     TC's financial performance has been excellent and has improved sig-
nificantly since 1977/78 with a 68% increase in net profit before tax. Even
after heavy taxation (62% of income before tax), TC now has a return of about
17% on equity, and has succeeded in reducing its long term debt to equity
ratio from 45% to 33%. TC's current ratio of about 1.9 gives adequate
liquidity. Current assets have increased at a rate of 8% per annum higher
than sales growth (10% per annum). This has been due to improvements in
extraction capacity while transport and processing facilities have not kept
pace; this has caused a build up in log inventories. TC is currently
implementing projects which would improve transportation and processing.
Financial Reporting
41.     TC's financial reporting has also improved over the last five years,
but there is scope for further improvement. Annual financial statements are
completed almost one year after the end of the fiscal year. Auditing is
delayed because accounts from far away agencies are received late due to
outdated systems and procedures which result in communication problems and
delays in consolidation. Recognizing this problem, TC has created separate
accounts for income, assets and liabilities of all externally aided projects.
The preparation and auditing of these project unit financial accounts has
generally been timely. TC has engaged consultants under the IDA assisted
projects and they are helping to improve the quality of reporting. The ADB
assisted Second Forestry Project is also providing 24 man-months of financial
consultant assistance. To avoid delays in getting project expenditures



-14-
audited, TC would prepare separate project accounts in a format similar to
those agreed upon in the First Wood Industries Project (Section 5.01(b) of
the draft DCA). Project unit financial statements would be made available
for auditing and to IDA within six months of fiscal year end; and project
unit audited financial statements and audit report would be made available to
IDA within nine months of fiscal year end (Section 5.01(c) of the draft DCA.)
Budgeting
42.     All Government departments and corporations are required to prepare
an annual budget for approval by their Ministry and then by the Ministry of
Planning and Finance and the Cabinet. Even though a project may have been
approved and foreign financing assured, a corporation may not be able to
implement the project if the required expenditures are above the budgeted
expenditure. The budget revision procedure is time consuming. To ensure
against possible delays, TC would forward to IDA for review the draft project
budget and implementation plan for each fiscal year before the end of
September of the preceding fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the draft DCA). IDA
would thus be able to assess in advance the adequacy of the proposed finan-
cial provisions and forward to the government any observations it may have.
Production
43.     Project mills would produce mainly teak and other hardwood sawnwood,
teak faced and other plywood, teak veneer, and block board. Low grade teak
sawnwood and firewood would be produced as byproducts and would be sold on
the local market. The project would increase teak sawnwood output by about
3,600 S tons and improve the quality of about 34,600 S tons of export grade
teak sawnwood. Teak faced plywood production would increase by 5 M sq.ft.,
other plywood by 16 H1 sq.ft.; teak veneer, by 14 M sq.ft.; block board by
1.6 M sq.ft.; and hardwood sawnwood by 4,720 S tons.
Marketing and Pricing
44.     Export grade teak sawnwood would form the bulk of the project produc-
tion (78%) and exports (94%). The average export price for teak sawnwood
increased by about 20% per annum compounded, over the last decade. In January
1983, TC had an order backlog of about 47,000 S ton which represents about 8
months export production. The large export order backlog, inspite of the
recessionary climate, shows the strength of market demand for TC products.
The project incremental production forms only 5% of total teak sawnwood
exports from Burma (73,000 S tons), and would therefore not present any
marketing problems. The project would improve sawing quality and thus prices
by 10%. The teak sawnwood price structure set by TC shows some anomalies.
Very thin teak scantlings (sawnwood below 2" thickness) require more sawing
and therefore have a higher cost of production. Nevertheless TC has in some
cases priced these thin scantlings lower than the standard size scantling.
TC now recognizes these anomalies and has agreed to increase export prices of
thin teak scantlings. TC would review the teak sawnwood price structure
annually, commencing September 30, 1984, and discuss with IDA the results of
such review by September 30 of each year (Section 5.03(a) of the draft DCA).
45.     While the local markets are in short supply of TC products, the
Government is against market determined prices because of its concern for



-15-
containing inflation. The Government sets local prices of TC products using
a formula based on standard costs and a 10% profit margin allowance. This
policy may not adequately provide reasonable prices for TC. TC and other
agencies have, therefore, to be alert in recognizing increases in the cost of
production and in revising local prices. TC would, therefore, review
annually the cost of production and prices of panel products and hardwood
sawnwood and, commencing September 30, 1984, discuss the results of the
review with IDA by September 30 of each year. Subsequent action would be
taken to ensure that an average profit margin of 10%, a level in compliance
with SEE guidelines set by the Government, would be maintained (Section
5.03(b) of the draft DCA).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
46.     The total project cost, including duties and taxes, would be about
US$57 M equivalent including US$31 M in foreign exchange. Equipment costs are
based on March 1983 quotations updated to September 1983. Civil works costs
are based on the Construction Corporation estimates of unit rates for local
construction in FY82/83 updated to September 1983. Physical contingencies for
civil works are estimated at 10%, and for equipment, at 5%. Price contingen-
cies are based on an estimated local inflation of about 4% per annum. Infla-
tion in foreign equipment costs is estimated at 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984,
7% for 1985, and 6% thereafter. Total physical contingencies amount to 6.2%
of base costs, and price contingencies, 13.4%. The project mills will
require increased working capital to cover increased raw material and
finished good inventories, and accounts receivables net of payables. The
project will provide about US$1.1 M to cover incremental working capital
needs during the four year investment phase of the project. Provision for
technical assistance and training is based on 26 man-months of expatriate
specialist services at US$10,500 per man-month; 1/ and 111 man-months of
foreign-training at US$2,500 per man-month.
47.     The proposed IDA credit of US$25 M (about 58% of total project costs
net of taxes and duties) and a FINNIDA grant of US$6 M would finance the full
foreign exchange costs of the project. Receipt by the Government of commit-
ments, satisfactory to the Association, for contracting the Finnish grant
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the draft DCA).
TC would finance US$26 M of local costs from internally generated funds. The
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma would be the borrower and the
proceeds of IDA credit would be onlent to TC, under a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, for a period of 15 years, including 5 years grace and interest at 8.5%
per annum. The proposed onlending rate, which is in line with the current
rate structure in Burma, is positive in real terms. TC would bear the for-
eign exchange risk. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and TC, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the draft DCA).
1/ Man-month rate includes salary, social and overhead costs and post
adjustment, international travel and subsistence.



-16-
Procurement
48.     Procurement would be carried out by PU within TC while FINNIDA will
procure goods and services to be provided under FINNIDA grant. Of the total
base project cost of US$47.8 M, the major part (62%) would be for goods
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. Machinery and equipment (US$26.3 M) and structural
steel (US$3.5 M), not produced in Burma, would be procured following ICB and
would be eligible for IDA financing. Equipment and material, such as
calculators, office furnishings, and cement (US$2.0 M) would be reserved for
local procurement and would not be eligible for IDA financing. Bulky con-
struction materials such as sand, shingle, bricks and timber (US$3.1 M) are
not suitable for ICB and would be procured locally. Small items (costing
less than US$20,000 cif) and which are not suitable for ICB, would be
purchased through normal Government procurement procedures, which require
obtaining a minimum of three bids, and which are acceptable to IDA. These
would be limited to US$0.7 M. Plywood rotary line equipment suitable for
Burmese conditions and technical assistance and training (US$6.0 million)
will be provided by FINNIDA on a tied basis using Finnish suppliers. There
are two main manufacturers of plywood rotary line equipment which would
ensure adequate price competition. Most of the civil works construction and
management (US$4.5 M), not financed by IDA, would be undertaken by CC under a
cost plus contract which will be approved by IDA under a supplementary agree-
ment as done in other projects in Burma. Some minor construction works
(US$0.5 M) will be undertaken by TC. The civil works are small and dispersed
over five sites in three provinces and would not be of interest to foreign
contractors. The remaining cost is for incremental working capital
(US$1.1 M).
Disbursement
49.     Disbursement under the credit is expected to be completed by
March 31, 1990. The project disbursement period is slightly shorter than the
eight year disbursement period experienced in similar IDA assisted projects
in the past. The projected period is in line with disbursement experience
of the ongoing First Wood Industries Project which is ahead of disbursement
profile as estimated at appraisal and similar good performance under the
proposed project is expected. Disbursements from the proposed Credit would
be made for: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported machinery,
equipment, and vehicles or 100% of local expenditure on locally manufactured
goods-exfactory (US$21.5 M); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly
imported construction material or 100% of local expenditure on locally
produced construction material-exfactory (US$3.5 M); and (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures on TA and training (US$0.7 M). Applications for withdrawals
would be fully documented and no statements of expenditures would be
necessary.
Financial Benefits
50.     The project would be financially attractive to TC and the Government.
It would support future capital formation within TC and would help Govern-
ment's domestic resource mobilization. The project would generate about
K 88 M. in incremental revenues annually after project completion, of which
about K 68 M would be left for distribution after expenditures. About 35% of



-17-
the benefits would accrue to the Government as taxes and contribution, leav-
ing about K 42 M for TC. The financial rate of return on project investments
would be about 11% which is above both the real (5%) and nominal cost (8.5%)
of financing the project and therefore the project will generate sufficient
incremental revenues to service debt. Since TC is wholly owned by the
Government, a better measure of financial incentive for the latter is
provided by the fiscal rate of return on investment (FISRR), which measures
the impact of the project on the budget. The project FISRR would be 23%, and
would be very beneficial for the Government's Budget.
51.     Environment, Health and Safety.  Existing teak sawmills have exposed
saw blades and inadequate waste material collection system. These pose both
health and fire hazards. The project will improve waste collection and
provide new sawing equipment with safety features and saw guards. Project
mills will be equipped with sawdust collection equipment and good ventilation
near driers and dust removal systems near sanders. Waste water will be
recycled and mills provided with water treatment plants. The project will
result in substantial improvement in environmental, health and safety aspects
of project mills.
Project Justification and Economic Analysis
52.     The project forms part of the Government's development strategy for
the forest and forest industries sector, which emphasizes higher export
earnings through better material utilization and efficiency. The project
would also support the Government objective of increasing local processing
and availability of its agriculture and forest exports by increasing produc-
tion of teak veneer for exports, and of panel products and hardwood sawnwood
for local market. The project would produce incremental annual revenues of
about US$11 M of which US$7 M (64%) would be from exports. The Economic Rate
of Return (ERR) is estimated to be 37% for teak sawmill rehabilitation (19%
of Project Cost); 26% for teak sawmill reconstruction (33% of Project Cost);
19% for panel products mill (40% of Project Cost); and 19% for hardwood mills
(6% of Project Cost). No ERR has been estimated for joint overhead costs (8%
of Project Cost). The overall Project ERR is estimated at 25%.
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
53.     The proposed project would be the second IDA assisted wood industries
project in Burma, and is based on the good implementation experience of the
first project.  TC wood products have excellent demand and TC has managed to
increase revenues even in a recessionary world economy. Therefore, both
implementation and market risks are minimal. Furthermore a sensitivity
analysis of project ERR shows that the risk of project ERR falling below 12%
is low. Project operating and capital costs can individually double without
affecting project viability. The project is also not very sensitive to
production levels. Even if only half of the projected increase in production
were realized or production increase were delayed by six years, the ERR would
remain above 12%. The chances of such delay are very low. The project is
relatively more sensitive to changes in benefits through changes in price,
but all prices would have to fall by more than a third before the project
ERR would fall below 12%. That is considered unlikely and the risk of the
project ERR falling below 12% is therefore very low.



-18-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following are proposed as additional conditions of credit
effectiveness:
(a)  execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and the Timber Corporation;
(b)  formation of a Project Unit within TC and the appointment of a
Project Director and two Deputy Directors in the Project Unit;
and
(c)  the Government has received commitments, satisfactory to the
Association, for contracting the Finnish grant.
56.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 15, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1
T A B L E 3A
BURMA                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHITED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
b    RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b       1970''  ESTIMATE.Lb        ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
ARBA (THOUSAND SQ. EN)
TOTAL                                   676.6        676.6        676.6
AGRICULTURAL                            106.9        108.0        103.8
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        50.0         70.0         190.0               276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           60.0         73.0         87.0                398.4                        792.8
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   21780.0          27000.0      34109.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            19.3         22.8         27.7                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                   52.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    114.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           32.2          39.9         49.2                161.7                        260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               203.7         250.0        320.8                363.1                       1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUKE (Z)
0-14 YRS                             38.2          40.3         41.1                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             59.2          56.3         55.2                 59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           2.6           3.3          3.7                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                   1.9          2.1          2.1                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                  3.7           3.9          3.9                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             42.9         40.1         37.0                 29.3                         3L.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             21.0         16.8         13.1                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8          2.8          2.6                  2.0                          2.0
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..           ..                 48.1                         46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          100.0         101.0        107.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0         104.0        113.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              52.0          57.0         63.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            11.0          12.0         12.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             24.7          18.3         12.3                 12.2                          7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            43.8         48.7         54.1                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          158.0         127.9         98.1                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO WAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    *-         18.0         17.0/d               32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                   ..          35.0         30.0/d               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    ..         13.0         13.07W               22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         35.0         33.0/e               18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    ..         45.0         38.O/e               72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                    ..         32.0         32.07                4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             15560.0        8790.0       4660.0               3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               8520.0/f    7380.0         4750.0               4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1520.0        1170.0       I100.0/c             1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                330.0/f      350.0         370.07W              298.4                        651.1
RURAL                                    *-     15220.0        7160.O/c             5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         34.0           ..                   ..                         27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.6           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..



-20-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2
T A 8 L E 3A
BURMA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RE/CENT  lb          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/       1970/b  ESTIMATF/           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     56.0         87.0         84.0/c              96.1                       101.2
MALE                      61.0        92.0         87.0/c              107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                    52.0         83,0        81.07W               d2.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     10.0         21.0         20.0/c               30.2                        44.9
MALE                      13.0        26.0          22.07               37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                     7.0        17.0         18.07W               22.2                        44.6
VVCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)             0.5          0.8          O.1/c                2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              42.0         47.0         54.0/c               34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            40.0         32.0         37.077              18.4                         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                59.7/f         ..         65.9                 53.5                        72.9
CONSUltPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.8           1.1         1.3_g,               1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             5.3        14.8         21.0                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..          ..           ..                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               11.3           8.7        10.1                 16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         6.0/h        7.9/i          ..                 3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           10404.0      11577.0      13549.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     40.1         36.9         35.5                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   ..        69.9         67.1                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     ..          8.0          9.8                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEN'r)
TOTAL                                47.8         42.9         39.7                 42.5                        38.6
MALE                                 58.0         54.7         51.4                54.4                        50.7
FEiALE                               37.8         31.3         28.2                29.8                        26.6
ECONOMilC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9          1.0          1.1                  1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF ILOUSEHOLDS            14.6/4         ..           ..                16.5                        22.2
HlGHlEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           44.7T9       40.0/i         ..                43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20Z OF iiOUSEHOLDS             6.5/1        8.07          ..                 6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.5f        21.07W         ..                 17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..         94.0/c             133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         68.0/c             111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         50.0/c                ..                       178.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         36.o07                 ..                      164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         40.O/g              43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..          ..         40 .0J              51.7                         41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1978; /h 1964; /i 1972; /j 1958, Rangoon only.
May 1983



-21-                                                                    ANNX I
Page 3
DEINifITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Aluhough the data aredrawn Pra  sourcesgenerally judged tbe nst sthorlt,tatin  and reial *I  should a'lso11                                 ,,-    I be,ntdta   hynynth  tncsroaetooa.llp
comarble because uf na lac k  of snodardied definitIons and conneple . wed b ofset  ...otetee to  -1ohleoig the data.  The data are, ntehoo.  wflc
dneeoremof naniud,indicate trends, and  borauteritee ucroai   saucdifeee  betsoc,                       elo
The reference. grunpo a-  (I) the . east ..utry grop of the sabject o...otry and (2) a ewantcy group sith s-h.ba  htgh., averge Iocoe thaoh the . cutry group of the
sabject country (encept for "High  Ont         il Enprtet-` grouP where "Mtddle Income N-rtb Africa sod etddie tate" It chosen becanoe of et-n-g sac.o-c...ura
uf f    ds)    nho  referana goup da,ta the,.. anerge  are popuIatin. neighted arthbetlo means for each indiator sod  htnan unly ahen eajority of the  -nutries It A
ourbadathfr  ht  nd-ta...n.beonrge of catrlt  mug tbe luiotr  dpnd   tthe an- labitin   of dta and is  u                                           fr,cotn   uoh
.eterise   In relating a.eragas of une idlaorn ohe.Theta an-ges are  only usfl  oI moIng  the nalue of one  ditdlct-raan raun   the county aud
AREcA homn  si.                                                                                      Population ye  rhyolia- coplaton dlnided by  -unber ofpccie
-  IT ta  orae ara cusprlinig land area an d tiso.dasen   1960,                             pyiin    nlfe    raamdclsbn       norlyloi
'iiTi and 1900 data.                                                   PopulatIon ~~~~~~~per  urIng11   recant  Pupulatiun  divided by unohec of practicing
A9rirlfuratl - Esconatn of agriculturlI area umedesprnl   rpraetyslndfeaegraduate naroet,. aaiatant ntrnet, prcstica1 Itoaou and
fo  cop,  pawurenp   monger and kitchen gardens or to low falw    90                                 urlgnlire
19ff and 199  data.                                                                              Populat2ion par HoPOcl led - total. nrba, and rual- t          oultin(totl.
urban, and rursi) dioldad by their r.sec Onei number of h.yOr bade
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - iNP y-  capicoee -i-ates an -oc entnoken pricem,                                 wellal "It yab1lic and Price gat ra  ad sPeijtased bopjspin  nod
airulatald by sao  onetin-ehod as World Sank Atlas (1979-SI batis);                                  rebabtiitotio    cener.Hfo'plnalouee .tanwlisbennh-             snneyanf
1960, i970. aol 1991 dens,                                                 ~~~~~by atlwt  one pyliojue. tatblishmen-  proniding  principally1 catwfdi
001900 MNe01009TION PER CAPITA - Awnual aptewn   nstyioo  ne                  s                         m.edia enIters dnon pa.aeti huptaffed   yapyIin(u    y                   -atedica1
r  ayenryfcl  and lint,erueantrl gao sod hydra-, enler                                                             P'itat  nre   nidelfe, woo.)  witc  ofe  itpat.ient sromt oeonan
en    eieelnieceiip            OR k ..gas  ofca  equcln    a  cpepoId t,untd  ag  of--,edlnl  faIfe,oc    fnr jtuinicu  ynyoe
190   970, and  990 data,ubnbsltl    cld  ANn princplfeh                                                                                          o  hsial,addua
huPlrl    loa    Ir ua  hoePitule and wed ic   and maternity contort.
POPULTIllON A09 VITAL STATISTICS                                                                        ipnilie   hoptaa  rHhoodpny  ndrrua.'
ToalPountto odYer( -oad.)   A. beof July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1991                                   dlneeprH piaSd-Tolnubrfaniennnordchga
data.                                                                                            trus..  hos'"11-  Piftals dinided by the vanhec of bedt.
differentdeini196et uf9rbn aead           ny,afec       ...p....ity 0f dat                      1009
amongti.? contiew; 1960  190   n   91dt.AeaeSits of Houswhnld  (proepr uehald)- tal,uban, and rural
papola0OonPCoutaoun                                                                         -.A bhoeinid untse   fa  ru  ofP  hd.nIdale   h   hr   Iigqatr
Porittonin  ear200 -Corec pduIId      o   p    lietion   ace. hwd on 1980I ad ternt    el.Abadror lodger sa lueoyncbeIonlde-i
nonai poulatiunby age  nd eon ad the O  sorta oop nod fertIlty                     the houaehld foe  terosI.., parpee..                           tb  ilddJ
raes irfwsintuasteAfu   oruOrErls  uprero  tre                                         nrae  obe   f  eros  o  con   nni2aontndrra  aeug    use
lenele onsuming lie enpantancy at brth increostog inOh rnunrtry'u  par            of peoo e prra   nalabn   r  r.uraloccpId nneoa
asoigdcin   nfriIt   codn   toboelee   n  ps   ailenet  oIeelIr   pron   fdullns)-erl  urban, ndPrura  -
coelnninn  f  onait   ad trtlly  oeoa  or  roecionpupoes.ofrnol  eba, ad  url delb. longs                        naspe pinely
structure-.,ino. P refin  cosEnh l.ThnIacIevd    -pafe  feet fliryrace                      .d lited  erolent  atin
yuolti-nnioeaoe-rimtydo   hehes  fseejcd frhauote-"pr lar  scheol-ag  p1opuain;  on                                                           nldsthlrnhgd6i
ia  o  o   h  popatfoe   nctyn   t00h  anAheccao-dnteotpao but adjnsted  forlh diferentlengths of prmay  dcaio;o
fecriliyraneooopiaces" leve.                                                                 coI _tIeaIc        mg uieol eoainnclernytca   0   enc
p-baln  Otwllbrsi ed.Oeonar  ahdl   tnal mleandfmaeI ICtf tbed anaoeW eodt
Peoltin  enit                                                                                 duotnnoqiesc  eor  ou  yat  f  ppovd   enay  ssrubin
Per en.lam. -  ld-yearpopuiusnt per  quar  klonete  (105 J. herp-os 7  fpoiengnrt   oc                                            P-l,ortahrtriigiero to   o
h .p.utn . 190t   90,I     d181dt._tl-ererrni -cia    andhennd ry.-.T tal-I  ..I.fen dnennltdi
yoploeoo  ros   lte  pereor -Il" Int',,, Armoal fow    -ali of. el. id                          p Isty  n   eeodr  itn         the dinided hynaeso   erhr   ntere
yerpopulat-ion fnc 1955-90, 1        t-h, and, 190-f                                              responding hleveis..... t                                              '
PouaInGot   ae(aco)-obn-Anu   ent  rates of- orban                                         Adu, lt1ireey  ae(pnet)-L tar   idutealed.  to redl  and wri,  anI
popolatlons for 1950-60, 1960-70d,te  and            o 19f-S.                              prcntgeoftoalad'Ipoultin  ge  15 peri yedand oe.ti.;
Crude tli  Sate  Per  Ihosiand)-- denualblIne bibr-ttparffioua1nf of mid-
poulu    I;110,  0197, and iSI   dens                                                            ar   etiglstta  eigh  pernne  rec Ind   amulnes ei_en
hernosaCrprdutie   erodIfsh   e               barene  prset   aeseIi               I           w.gdin  enarer  (prtosn.-Iltn)-al  ye   frcivr   o   ai
frIliy;  rates; utaw Ilyfn-eraeae                  iti i9hI,d1970,Vandtirad.sn  to g-e1 ersi IPnbllc per -casad o  pyny tnn jnctudwa a-
64 y.-    Iicetnilded recoy-l-era in(5-                                                                   ' "             doutriesl an  in fenc he,p   en11  e-glhnrri--o  radon
Pumiy Pannne-Acepors       oaua   ( -runoe -.  oeulnmef id rapeoro                          notensI  effect;.. dta ofn  re-      t  er  nyetdecoprbl   icen
of bth-cncruldevOee ade  now pIne  of naional  Paet tIp plnnn                               countries aboiiosheud I Icentiog. 
psonly Pluoing-Use O (_ren  fcrre   amnt              Pret g   1tare                             ateral-   pubi   perd:F chuteid pnrusc Oo;yeiOnn)iene,qrnu
al   are  ncni   on   f   rnp                                                                     auoe C.....lotionL brrtns,    opltin                  toon t-he ioc thale
FOODHot 0011                                  IA RT-hOiTOof-bS                                  ciclllnc dol         lyittl  tt   pr- -ecn -atI  dcrotwut c lu p tpe", teyed suaperodlco
lindn ofPnndPru f oci19n0 per Ca60nto fd19790hOiI-81    Ioe   Sprcpn                                 pur -ior  drnof   prtlsadrI I flI.riccedlod 6wnru y       un.  ItIo    otdea
huedn  narl-ineal960  1970ag   produe  price d eiir    19O-h,SifM,andiON
ParodcapIta wot.  uf- calor.Iw(prcen  of         th re pieset 1h-. Computd-feam                    Total lbo  Purrs (.tintan...dapplt.) -          Pnn .s.u.. aiet pasos  Incluing acte
ewrgtululn   ofnt o9       nple  aelb    treer  papdapIa pr                                 frre  endll oalayed banI linc pludngintelo            ir-deno, eo. covein
enporra, ac  rhanges toaeonb.  Settopplias aelude aninu  fred  Ped,coprbl;1h0    tO  n   90 os
qfentilt, Owtue  Ic  oo  fenetsng  and   etr Oin dImto96hotin              d                       beald  (percent)  g. e.mable     P labrfoc-s  aretg of l.nIII       labor fo_a
he oirnens oceassontd A  PA  bsedon  hysolgicl nedsfornomilfaroolad  (pecet)-  lab-orti lucr  In faig,foesr,  huting sof di
oga beAseedisr-     s io   %f_plain   n  ens yt1   peerntftO               wst                     -ndatr    b paeht)d lab.or  oc.      n  lOslrntungo,mnaanrn
Parcaita Plnypiy of .roitn(grm          erday  -.Potein cotent  of percapta                             90an.dl  ea
ne   upl  n   od  e  d-ttnsppyoffo  is-defInd as-shoe.i    tarcrtnlte)rman)-toa,m-e   n                                                                        fei-aiip tionw
Reqairreenna fur al   cert   ealae    yOU   end  frnunmeect   acoaertue  as total, tale,Icud an -fmle  aor-                                                       owa
pos Fooend   f  hc  1   rs  u           7innld O he  Inida protei , mate                       190   97,adH ISidaa   These art               i- hae  en . IL h' patiiptonrae
inteodrx     aeO rta   hs   f  5gaso   oa   rti   n  2) gra19bs7oref                                          I eci tgag-sen stutur   fteppuaIn   n   on-ieted
nfeed alrters              lotr  bfrbenldynpadhr   inee    d                                       f-wcnteaafneaonlosrs
Third  crId   ud Onrsy; lhi-6lI97ead ..900 data.                                         Iconl epoec  Rto-laI-fpouuioodr1  ad6   odAat
Per.d  capIt  p ...onplyfo Ini_al an  Pulse-Prti  spIt uffn                                          h oaliirfre
derve   taPaislsa           d p lse   n  rn   per- dayt; 196i-65, 1970, d and iiSyf-                                                                            tv-i-lo--  O
da lPte  ..IP'CO2mE OItiTtISLABORFOR                                                                                t
Childy (ages I-A) Deat lae(crcoaad If    annual deth -Cpar. thasa_ inTreee   fPinn   noe(ebiGcs   n   id      ecle    prce
dg  gop -y      yas,n  children lin; tIs age !7 grup  fn   am   en pigprcent,F-- riheth-0 pcreo   pnEl r2-                                        ecn,adporo 0prero
bnncls  at   entedlfi-  lPife tablet; 5h,  19ff andl P991 dana.        penusaboldta.ill.in -
anitm                                                                    POOIOT~~~~~~~PI Tariff olf  DP
.T1   Ipatanr  ot Sirt   yan       vrg   abeu  years of  I-           Ife. c.at.g.h..loao   entiml.erastar  very  hpruiat   eaurso,pvrt   wo..n
anbit;  90,1ff- and 1991                   i data.    etboudldPIb.   90 be                                      970arpet d 1oc 1 dnntOdral  rtine
Infant Cortaliny lte I lper sbyoPAOud) .  - annual d      leatsIf  o antslodnr.ow            fsfloiedibalu.te P o,ertyIno- foLevl(tpecai)-uheerrnl-
yea oi  ae  enY hnnaf  iv   beooths;_SRtISf   an b181 data                                         Abs-Itte (povetyuose leeli fthan income               8 lene  hlota shirt a  -ll
dneso  Rf  Wooe  (pree of POPa1acie) - t lotal, nih,an   ua  -nelinnlyaeutdecpoesnIlvn-fdrqiemtsnnt
Tabe fo people (Innt,uban  u d cre) sihwstalaca   tiaeafodbe
Fncon_anonape  naa   uha   htfa    etce  hchls   ptg,sdbdrltiv    poet  inrm..e.e it n~or-tiord                                                               t... nf .oeag  pe  lpta-
houst.e.  nrt   l  raf   cesf_h                                dolesnl  ipyta   hebnelene           ad  ual-  eretofptoaOe  (urban                   ' end rural  em bO are l-  1960n
nenthertuO the  eusehol  do nothane Inspend adtoprnprtlnnat  part o
hua  eted       n           Zet-aerlylaeeboe th   .  d tyatw   ccth  ate of pioth                                                 OcnmrAayi   n  fuenonlpodn
petnie   and   mIle.inaaleaions                                                                       OeyiNS



-22-                                  ANNEX I
Pago 4
COUNTRY DATA - 3URKA*
AREA                     POPULATION                                               DENSITY
676.581 sq km            35.7 million (1982)                                 53 per sq km
Rate of Growth:  2.32 (from 1981 to 1982)          192 per sq km of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS j/                                  HEALTH (1980)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000):                   37.2            Population per physician:              4,550
Crude Death Rate (per '000):                   13.6            Population per Hospital Bed:           1,407
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births):
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1972)                                     DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (1975)
% of national income, highest quintile:          40            2 owned by top 142 of owners:             42
lowest quintile:          8            2 owned by smallest 622 of owners:        26
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER a/                                       ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1977)
2 of population - urban:                       30.0            2 of population:                         6.6
rural:                      13.0
Total:                      17.0
NUTRITION a/                                                   EDUCATION A/
Calorie intake as 2 of requirements:            106            Adult literacy rate:                     672
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):    59               Primary school enrollment:               84S
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1983                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (. constant orices)
S Million    2                      1973-78        1978-83        1973-83
GNP at Market Prices             5,915    100.0                      4.3              6.5           5.3
Gross Capital Formation          1,337      22.6                      9.8            15.3          12.5
Gross National Saving              953      16.1                    10.4             16.5          13.4
Foreign Saving bk                  536       9.1                     7.0             20.9          14.2
Exports of Goods, NFS              438       7.4                    -1.8             10.0           3.9
Imports of Goods, NFS              950      16.1                     3.3             14.5           8.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY1983
Value Added                  Labor Force          V. A. Per Worker
$ million    %               Million    2                  US$
Agriculture c/                    2,883    48.4               9.4       66.3              307
Industry d/                         757    12.7               1.5       10.3              505
Services/Trade                    2.322    38.9               3.3 *l   23.4 et            704
TOTAL                        5.962   100.0              14.2     100.0               420
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                   Union Government
Kvats Million    2 of GDP         Kvats Million      2 of GDP
FY83          nY83                FY83            FY83
Current Receipts                        7,751 0/         16.5 LI           6,823            14.5
Current Expenditures                    6,221            13.3              6,062            12.9
Current Surplus                          1,530            3.3                761             1.6
Capital Expenditures                     8,494 I/        18.1 x|           1,998             4.3
External Assistance (gross)             3,720             7.9
*All data for FY83 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/ Most recent estimates, referring to any year between 1979 and 1981.
bJ Defined as external current account balance excluding grants.
c/ Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
d1 Includes mining, power, and construction.
e/ Includes workers not elsewhere specified.
flI Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
/J Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available



-23-                                  ANNEX I
Page 5
MONEY. CREDIT. AND PRICES                              1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
(Kyats million outstanding at                         Mar.       Mar.       Mar.       Mar.      Mar.       Mar.
end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                                6,631      8,017      9,619      11,213    13,135    14,808
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         6,550      7,194      8,990      10,885    13,487    16,323
Bank Credit to Private and                           1,706      1,728      1,653       1,651      1,749     1,702
Cooperative Sectors
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                      22.4      25.2       27.2        29.0       30.7       31.5
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon
(1972 = 100)                                       234.6      247.9      249.4       249.4     252.9      266.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                     -6.0        5.7        0.6           0        1.4       5.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          5.4       9.8       25.0        21.1       23.9       21.0
Bank Credit to Private and                          14.6        1.3       -4.3        -0.1        5.9      -2.7
Cooperative Sectors
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY83) a/
FY81     FY82      FY83                                                 $ Million         2
(us$ Million)
Exports (GNFS)                         531.2    515.0    437.8                 Rice and Rice Products                144         41.9
Imports (GNFS)                         755.5    880.5    950.7                 Teak & Hardwood                        87         25.3
Resource Balance                      -224.3   -365.5   -512.9                 Pulses and Beans                       33          9.6
Base Metals and Ores                   27         7.8
Animal Feedstuff                        8         2.3
Net Factor Income                      -24.2    -23.0    -46.7                 All Other Commodities                  45         13.1
Net Current Transfer                     16.6     17.6      23.7
TOTAL                          344        100.0
Current Account Balance               -231.9   -370.9   -535.9
Official Grant Aid                       96.6     58.6      79.4             EXTERNAL DEBT. March 31. 1983
Net M&LT Loans (DRS) b/                215.9    347.6    334.3                                                          uS$ Million
Disbursements                        282.2    431.1    402.5
Repayments                            66.3      83.5      68.2               Outstanding and Disbursed                  1,960.1
Short-term Capital                      -0.9         0      -0.7
Outstanding, including
Other Medium & Long Term Capital c|  -46.8    -77.4    -20.4                     Undisbursed                              3,242.3
Overall Balance                          32.9    -42.1   -102.5
Gross Reserves (end-March)              274.8    221.7    101.3
Net Reserves (end-March)               232.5    158.4       23.1             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1983                     Z
Ratio of debt service to exports of            26.9
goods and services (excluding IHF)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1980 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING. September 30. 1983 (US$ Million)
US$1.00  - K 6.76
IBRD          IDA
1981 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51                                                              Outstanding and Disbursed                           256.92
US$1.00  - K 7.40
Undisbursed                                        334.62
1982 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51                                                              Outstanding, including
US$1.00  = K 7.78                                                                 Undisbursed                            --        591.54
As of October 31. 1983
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51
US$ 1.00 - K 8.10
a/  Reported on shipment basis
iJ  Transaction reported to the World Bank's debt reporting system,
(DRS).
cI  Includes errors and omissions.
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
January 16, 1984



-24-                 ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANR/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1983)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose                 Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Trhree loans and six credits fully disbursed                 33.1   103.6          --
597      1975    Burma   Livestock                          -      7.5         1.03
642      1976    Burma   Paddyland Development              -    30.0          6.20
686      1977    Burma   Tin and Tungsten                   -    16.0          0.76
745      1977    Burma   Seed Development                   -      5.5         1.13
835      1978    Burma   Paddyland Development 1I           -    34.5         18.07
879      1978    Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation              -      4.5         1.77
949      1979    Burma   Forestry II                        -    35.0        18.19
958      1979    Burma   Telecommunications II              -    35.0        23.12
1031      1980    Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam             -    90.0        46.46
l092 b/   1981    Burma   Grain Storage                      -    23.0         17.21
:1114 bl/  1981    Burma   Wood Industries I                 -    32.0         17.75
:1245 bI   1982    Burma   Power I                           -    80.0        73.33
:1253 bI   1982    Burma   Construction Industry I           -    20.0        20.00
1315 bI   1983    Burma   Tank Irrigation                    -    19.0         19.00
1372 bl  1983    Burma   Third Port Project                  -    50.0         50.00
1381 b/d/ 1983    Burma   Groundwater Project I              -    14.0         14.00
1i985 bId! 1983    Burma   Rubber Rehab. II                  -      9.0         9.00
Total                                           33.1   608.6
of which has been repaid                     33.1      0.2
Total now outstanding                              -   608.4
Amount sold                        2.7
of which has been repaid         2.7             -
Total now held by Bank & IDA a!                    -   608.4
-Total Undisbursed                                                 337.02
A' Prior to exchange adjustments.
bI  IDA Sixth Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports
and disbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on September 30, 1983.
cI Effective October 18, 1983.
d/ Not yet effective.



-25-                          ANNEX III
Page I
BURMA
SECOND WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken by Country to Prepare the Project
Two years
(b) Agencies Preparing the Project
TC with assistance from FAO/CP
(c) Date of First Presentation to the Bank
December, 1982
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission
March 1, 1983
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations
November 18, 1983
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness
July, 1984
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Formation of a project unit within TC for implementing
the project and appointment of a Project Director and
two Deputy Directors for this Unit (para 37);



-26-                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB
and TC acceptable to IDA (para 47); and
(c) the Government has received commitments satisfactory
to the Association for contracting the Finnish grant
(para 47).
Other Special Conditions
(a) TC will appoint at least one engineer with mechanical or
industrial engineering background in each project teak
sawmill and in the panel products mill in a timely manner
before start of production (para 37).
(b) CC would assign by July 31, 1984 a project coordinator
to coordinate construction work amongst TC, CC's design
section and the project construction units (para 38).
(c) A draft project budget and implementation plan would be
sent to IDA for review before the end of September of
the preceding fiscal year (para 42).
(d) Commencing September 30, 1984, the teak sawnwood price
structure would be reviewed annually and the results of
such review discussed with IDA by September 30 of each
year. The review would consider all relevant aspects
in setting prices including market demand and cost of
production (para 44).
(e) The cost of production and prices of panel products and
hardwood sawnwood would be reviewed annually and discussed
with IDA by September 30 of each year, and subsequently
actions taken within the next year to ensure that an
average profit margin of 10% would be maintained
(paragraph 45).



~~~'-i  ,I00ao,o.OOo,ds,                                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
~~ ~,INDIA5  ~        CHINA                                                     , 
PEOPLE I- 
Z~I  EOCRSATIS,  f 
o-        THAILAND                      -2>                                                       / H /                               260~
D (EMOCRATI
_____~~~__p __                                                                                   H  A~0 N
/  920         ~                {5AGA/C             JHOIOI, 
~~A  \  /         0010,0                      &                         N~~~~~~~~~~LA
~~2,.,i  ~~~        01001                l(aolo~~~.                                                      PEOLE'
BAY OF:efvrAL                                                                                                            DEMOCRATI
20    yI~~~~~~~~~~  (1   ~~~~~~~303ooo                    ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        UBI
A                               loso        M       
0,1                    f    CHIN              ~~~~~
~~ ~~~jOj                                                                                      <No~KKA
is- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I
OF  AlGAL                                                              ___                                    *  MOCRATIC~Ky.,g
my~~~~~~~~~--)                            ~ ~ OO
BURMA
WOOD INDUJSTRIES It' PROJECT-Y
PRDPOSE-O PROJECT,                                      A'A A                 E
PANEWPIRODUCTSRIILL                                                                                                       1401
HARIMlWCOO  SAWMILLS
0  TRI5K SAWMILSRhbI161  Ol  ooo,0I0 
PREVIOUS PROJECTS.                                                                    T.-y                        BANGKOK( 
BU~96RMA PORESTW, It EAST PEGLI YOIHA604 ENARCEO)
BU \20RMA FORESTYl I (DA FfNANCED   -
SAGAI NG1 (ADS FfNAIJCFD)
FORESMY~ It JAo F1NANCEOJ
WOOD TNDDSMtIES I
MAtIM RIQADS
SECONDRAY ROADS
-----RAILWAYS 
DIVISION BOUNDARIES
-    NTE RNAXION1AI. BOUNDARIES                                                         VASPM              :/
KILOMETERS I    111         290         300         400                                                      /       UFO 7WA[AND
M5LES1110                 151      200     -'2SI
6  4a    -140~~~~~~~~~~r 
-ioo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~'                                               1                     0
10  B.o pw,3 1 1 RR  50   0060500000k - 00050000 1 
11,,3,031000s0'1, 00* 10     000603101050,1N



