Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4596-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
December 23, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1.00              =      Kyat (K) 8.51
US$1.00               =      K 7.88
K 1.00                =      US$0.127
Value of Kyat is tied to SDR and floats against US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)              1.273 cubic feet (cu ft) true
geometric measure for roundwood
1 hoppus ton (H ton)           50 HF in round logs, equivalent
to 50-64 cu ft depending on log shape
= 1.4-1.8 cubic meter (M3) of
wood underbark depending on log
shape                             3
1 sawn ton (S ton)             50 cu ft of sawnwood, or 1.416 M
1 metric ton (mt                2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AAC     -  Annual Allowable Cut
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
CC      -  Construction Corporation, Ministry of Construction
CF      -  Conversion Factor
CP      -  Cooperative Program (FAO/IBRD)
CAO     -  Central Accounts Office
CSU     -  Civil Works Construction Unit
EIU     -  Equipment Installation and Operating Unit
EPEF    -  Export Price Equalization Fund
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD      -  Forest Department, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
FFS     -  Forest Feasibility Studies
FID     -  Furniture Industries Department, Timber Corporation
FOB     -  Free on Board
FRR     -  Fiscal Rate of Return
GCF     -  General Conversion Factor
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
GOB     -  Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
IDA     -  International Development Association
IRR     -  Internal Rate of Return
MAF     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
OCC     -  Opportunity Cost of Capital
PAPRD   -  Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department,
Ministry of Planning and Finance
PU      -  Project Unit
SEE     -  State Economic Enterprise
TC      -  Timber Corporation, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION  ................................              .     .....      I
II.  THE FORESTRY AND FOREST INDUSTRIES SECTOR  .................                  1
Role in Economy  .1.................... . . .                                1
Composition of Forest Resources              .       ..                      2
Forest Management                            .... 2
Timber Extraction                         .           ....2
Wood Processing Industries                           . .                     3
Other Forest Industries  ........... *............ ,               .,,       6
The Timber Corporation (TC).                                                 6
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis, Strategy and Objectives    ..11
Brief Description              .........                 .11
Detailed Features                    ...12
Project Costs and Financing    ..15
Procurement                   ....... .                 .17
Disbursement  ..............................................                17
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit                   .        .18
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT.........   19
PU Organization - Brief Description                                         19
PU Organization - Detailed Features    .                 .19
Project Unit Management and Staffing   .                .20
Marketing                       ...21
Other Agencies Involved in Project Implementation                          21
Implementation Schedule......   22
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES   ............................               22
Production                                   ....22
Export Markets and Marketing   .                  .22
Local Markets and Marketing                  ..       ..........24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ..............  ..*    ................    25
Financial Benefits  ......... ................................   25
Project Operating Cost  ......*       .............................    25
Financial and Fiscal Rates of Return       ......................    26
Sources and Applications of Funds          .........................    27
Financial Structure of the Project Unit (PU)  ..............   28
Impact of PU on Overall TC  ..# ....... .    .......... ........ .o.   28
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ...............   29
(3eneral .     .............    ..........          ..*...so    29
Production and Benefits  .............  ......  ... . .. .$..   29
lon-Quantified Benefits  ................................    30
Economic Analysis  .. .... .... .....................................   30
Sensitivity Analysis  ..... ..#..............   so.o...........................    32
Project Risks  .. .......... ....................   32
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS  so ........    ............. ...................   33
ANNEXES
1.  Historic Financial Statements
2.  Project Cost
3.  Disbursement Schedules
4.  Organization and Implementation Charts
5.  Projected Financial Statements
6.  Economic Analysis
7.  Project File
TABLE NO.
2.1  Timber Corporation - Financial Performance
3.1  Project Cost Summary
3.2  Financing Plan
5.1  Project Production (Year 8)
5.2  Local Prices
6.1  Incremental Revenues (Year 8)
6.2  Local Prices
6.3  Financial and Fisal Rates of Return
6.4  PU - Summary Sources and Application of Funds
6.5  Summary Statements (Year 8)
7.1  Sources and Distribution of Project Benefits
7.2  Economic Rate of Return
7.3  Switching Values
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD Map No. 17205



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the proposed Wood Industries II Project in
Burma. The project will support Government's forestry and forest industries
sector development strategy which emphasizes higher export earnings as well
as provision of essentia'l construction material for local industry. The
Timber Corporation (TC) prepared this project during 1982 with assistance
from FAO-CP, and submitted its final preparation report to the Bank in
February 1983. An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. T.P.N. Sinha
(Mlission Leader), E. Chobanian (Agro-Industry Specialist), C. TMaguire (Train-
ing Specialist - part time), K. Kehr (Forest Industry Consultant), and T.
Steven (Civil Engineering Consultant) visited Burma during MIarch 1983.
During appraisal, agreement was reached to reduce project scope by removing
economically less viable project components.
II. THE FORESTRY AND FOREST INDUSTRIES SECTOR
2.01      Burma is well endowed with forest resources which cover almost half
of its 167 11 ac land area. Burma's relatively low population density (120
per sq. mile) and growth rate (2.2%) have prevented any significant encroach-
ment on the forest area which has consequently declined by less than 0.1% per
year. The reserved forest area is about 24 II ac and has shown a small
increase of about 0.4% per annum during the last five years. Forest Depart-
ment aims to increase the reserved forest area from the current 14% to about
30% of the total land area.
Role in Economy
2.02      Forestry activities account for less than 3% of GDP in current
prices. However, the sector is much more important in export trade where it
has traditionally been the second largest foreign exchange earner, and in
FYS1/82 forest products earned about K 696 M. The sector is also an impor-
tant source of funds for the national budget and made a net contribution of
about K 600 M (147) to public sector resources in the forn of royalties,
taxes, duties and surplus in FY81/82.
2.03      The sector is an important source of construction material, and
in 1981/82 supplied about 350,000 S tons of lumber and 25 It sq ft of plywood.
A shortage of these construction materials has constrained implementation of
many projects in Burma such as the IDA supported Grain Storage Project. The
proposed project will help to improve the hardwood and teak sawnwood supply
in the future.



-2-
2.04      Forest products provide a high proportion of rural energy consump-
tion through firewood and charcoal. The rural population is a1so dependent
on forest products such as bamboo for housing construction. The sector
provides total permanent employment to about 160,000 persons of which about
40,000 are employed by the Timber Corporation (para 2e19). Forests are also
important ecologically. They play a significant role in protecting Burma's
watersheds, preventing soil erosion and ensuring a sustained flow of irriga-
tion and drinking water for the downstream population.
Composition of Forest Resources
2.05      Burma's forests have been classified into eight forest types of
which the mixed deciduous forests are the most important. These forests
produce mainly teak (Tectona grandis) and pyinkado (Xylia dolabriformis),
and also contain other commercial hardwoods such as padauk (Pterocarpus
macrocarpus), tamalan (Dalbergia oliveri), and thinwin (Mlilletia pendula).
There are also extensive bamboo stands in Arakan and Tennasserim states.
Teak, the most important commercial species, forms about 10% of the growing
stock in reserved forests.
Forest Management
2.06      All forest land in Burma is owned by the State, and the Forest
Department (FD) of the Mtinistry of Agriculture and Forest (MAF) is primarily
responsible for its management. FD, which was founded in 1856, manages
Burmese forests in accordance with the Forest Act of 1881 as amended in 1902
and 1941.  The Act authorized creation of reserved forests.   FD sets annual
allowable cuts (AAC) within these forests. The AAC stands at about 360,000
H tons for teak and 2.1 M H tons for other hardwood.  The AAC 4s based on old
forest inventory information. GOB is currently updating its forest inventory
information with UNDP/FAO assistance. The new inventory will be completed by
1986. In the meantime, GOB is making forestry sector investments based on
conservative assumptions about forest inventory. To protect against local-
ized overcutting, GOB has also set a mininum girth limit of 7 ft. 6 in. for
dry teak extraction and 6 ft. 6 in. for green teak. FD marks trees that meet
such criteria for extraction by TC, including girdling of teak trees in
forest areas that supply dry teak.  After extraction, FD assesses royalties
on the logs extracted at rates of K 200/H ton for teak and K 15-30/H ton for
other hardwoods.  GOB also receives substantial contributions from wood
industries operations through export tax of about K 1100/H ton and local tax
of about K 110/H ton. The combined royalty and tax level is higher than in
most other timber exporting countries.
2.07      FD also has a forest plantation program under which about 170,000
acres of teak and about 80,000 acres of other hardwood species have been
planted. The program is supported in part by the IDA assisted Forestry II
Project (Cr. 949-BA), and is expected to increase teak supply in future. A
project with a significant forest plantation component is currently being
prepared for possible IDA assistance.



-3-
Timber Extraction
2.08      Timber extraction reached a peak of 1.3 HI H tons in 1972/73 and
declined after that reaching a low of 1.0 M H tons in 1975/76. The decline
was due to shortage of extraction equipment and fuel. Since then the IDA
assisted Forestry I and II Projects (Cr. 493-BA and Cr. 949-BA) and the ADB
assisted Sagaing Forestry and Second Forestry Projects have provided substan-
tial assistance for extraction, in the form of new equipment and technical
assistance. The decline has been reversed and about 1.4 it H tons of teak and
other hardwood logs were extracted in 1981/82. Teak extraction, which is a
state monopoly, contributed about 0.5 21 H tons; other hardwood extraction by
TC contributed 0.7 H1 H tons with the remaining 0.5 It H tons coming from
private sector extraction of non teak hardwoods.
Wood Processing Industries
2.09      Background.  Burma has a long history of wood procesqing industries
dating back to at least the late seventeenth century. British timber com-
panies established extensive teak sawnilling operations about a hundred years
ago and many of the sawmills which were established then are still in opera-
tion. As a result of this long history Burmese sawmill workers are skilled
and experienced, but at the same time many of the sawmills are antiquated,
and well beyond their economic life. Investment in the 1960s was low and
teak sales declined by 23% (nominal) between 1962 and 1972. In recognition
of this poor economic performance, the Government initiated a period of
reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan. The main objectives of
the Plan are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist
system, to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency by converting from
an agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The GOB's strategy for
achieving these goals is constantly evolving, with innovations proposed as
new constraints are encountered. The main elements of this strategy,
however, appear to be: (a) to give higher priority initially to the directly
productive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to
make greater use of aid, trade, and--to a lesser extent--technical assis-
tance; (c) to follow a price stabilization program which emphasizes cost
reduction, through increased efficiency in industry and technical change in
agriculture; and (d) to begin to introduce work incentives and commercial
principles, especially in the State Economic Enterprises (SEE). In accord-
ance with this policy, most wood processing industries are in the state
sector under the Timber Corporation (TC) (para 2.19) and the Government is
giving a high priority to the development of the wood industries under TC.
2.10      Hardwood 1/ Sawnilling.  There are about 185 hardwooA sawmills in
Burma, out of which about 40% are owned by TC and the rest by the private
sector. The private mills are allowed to do primary sawing only for TC on a
piece-work basis. The total capacity is about 600,000 tons of which about
55% is concentrated in the two divisions (Handalay and Sagaing) of the IJpper
Burma region. The sawmills are small and use circular saws with wide kerf
which reduces outturn percentage to about 54% Hoppus. The output of these
1/ In Burma this refers to hardwoods other than teak.



-4-
mills goes almost entirely to the local market with less than 5% being
exported. IDA assisted Forestry I & II Projects and ADB assisted Forestry
Projects are providing about US$21 million worth of equipment and spares for
rehabilitation and expansion of TC hardwood sawmilling capacity. Conse-
quently only a small quantity of additional hardwood sawmilling capacity will
be included in the proposed project.
2.11      Teak Sawmilling in Burma is now reserved for the public sector,
with only custom resawing permitted in the private sector. Therefore, all
the 20 Burmese teak sawmills are owned and operated by TC. Their annual
throughput capacity is about 275,000 H ton. This capacity is adequate quan-
titatively but not qualitatively. Most of the capacity (about 62%) is in
mills older than 40 years. These mills are inefficient. They employ cir-
cular saws with wide kerf. Therefore, a significant amount of the valuable
teak wood is wasted as excessive sawdust. Newer technology, using bandmills
with narrower kerf can reduce sawdust losses by 3% points and increase
recovery percentage from the present 43% to 46% Hoppus. In addition better
dimensional control through improved technology will allow reduction in
oversize allowances; resulting in a 2% point increase in recovery. There-
fore, there is a significant scope for improving efficiency, output volume
and quality through the modernization of the Burmese teak sawmills. The IDA
assisted on-going Wood Industries I Project (Cr. 1114-BA) will replace and
upgrade 105,000 H ton of existing sawmilling capacity.
2.12      Teak Sales.  Because of the nature of Burma's wood processing
industry and the quality and efficiency problems facing the industry (para
2.11), TC has a policy of exporting its best teak in log form. In 1981/82,
TC exported about 73,000 1- ton of high-grade logs worth about US$44 M. Lower
grades of teak were exported as sawnwood. Sawnwood exports in 1981/82 were
about 71,000 sawn ton 1/ worth about US$45 M. The lowest grades of teak
sawnwood, are sold locally. Local demand for teak is high because of a
shortage of durable hardwood sawnwood. In 1981/82, local tealk sawnwood sales
were about 75,000 sawn ton worth about US$12 M. The local prices are lower
because of the lower grade of the teak sawnwood sold in local markets. GOB
policy is to improve the wood processing industry and thereby realize higher
export revenues from its forest resources. The proposed project will help
improve product quality.
2.13      Plywood and Veneer Production.  Burma has only three plywood and
veneer mills all of which are owned and operated by TC. Two are located in
Rangoon and one at Swa, 200 miles north of Rangoon. The nills produce teak
veneer and plywood. The mills are 11 to 21 years old and are relatively
small, with an estimated capacity of about 13,000 n3. The capacity utiliza-
tion is only about 50% due to frequent breakdowns, specially in the drying
section. Product quality is poor due to improper handling, gluing and
drying. The wornout machines also waste raw materials resulting in a very
low outturn of about 20%. One of the plywood mills (mill No. 1) is
threatened by river bank erosion. Since the machinery in the mill is old and
worn out, TC are planning to allow plymill No. 1 to close and is rehabilitat-
ing the other two mills under the Wood Industries I Project.
1/ Equivalent to 166,000 H tons in log form.



-5-
2.14      Plywood and Veneer Sales.  Almost all of plywood and veneer are
sold locally with an occasional export of teak veneer and teak faced plywood.
In 1978/79 about 18 It sq ft of 5/32" thick plywood panels worth about US$3.3
rH were sold locally and only about 0.5 M sq ft of teak veneer worth about
US$60,000 was exported. Low production volume and poor quality have
prevented any significant exports.
2.15      Furniture and Flooring Products.  Burma has only one factory for
production of furniture and flooring products. The factory was started in
1921 as a Forest Department Research operation and later converted into a
commercial entity under TC. The factory produced about 26,000 pieces of
furniture and special items in 1978/79 worth about US$0.7 HI. In addition.
flooring products such as teak parquet mosaic and lamparquet components worth
US$0.3 H1 were also produced. Most of the furniture has traditionally been
sold within Burma and the flooring products outside Burma. In line with GOB
policy to sell more teak in processed form, TC is now making increased
efforts to export furniture by improving product quality and marketing. TC
has reached agreement with firms from Denmark, HongKong, Japan and Singapore
for technical and marketing assistance. TC is rehabilitating And expanding
furniture and flooring product production capacity under the IDA assisted
Wood Industries I Project.
2.16      Export Pricing Policy.  Export prices for wood products are set by
TC, which is the sole Burmese exporter of those products. TC has a monopo-
listic position in world teak markets, supplying virtually all of teak logs
and 70% of teak conversions entering international markets. Prior to
1978/79, TC management instituted sharp price increases in an unpredictable
manner. This led to a contraction of teak markets as many consumers switched
to other hardwoods. Since 1978/79, TC has instituted a more organized pric-
ing policy. TC revises export price only once every year in April. The
market is informed about price increases sufficiently in advance of that
date, and the price increases have been moderate at about 10% which is only
about 2 to 3% above inflation. As a result, TC has been able to regain most
of its customers. The current average export price for teak logs is K 4,900
per H ton and for teak sawnwood - K 5,500 per S ton, which is about 5% higher
than the Indonesian teak price and reflects the quality premium for Burmese
teak.
2.17      Local Pricing Policy.  GOB allows TC to set local prices of wood
products so as to cover the standard cost of production with a 10% extra
allowance for profit. For wood products such as plywood and furniture, the
cost based formula yields reasonable prices when compared with export prices
(para 5.09). Hlost of higher grade teak is exported and little goes to the
local market. For the lowest grade teak sawnwood, which is unexportable and
sold only on the local market, the present price is about K 1,250-1,800 per S
ton. Other hardwoods are sold mostly on the local market. Average price for
the main construction timber is about K 800 per S ton. That compares with an
equivalent export price of about K 1,640 per S ton and local free market
price of K 2,500 per S ton. Thus, official prices for hardwood sawnwood are
low and do not reflect its opportunity cost. GOB believes that increasing
local hardwood prices at this time will fuel inflation. GOB, therefore,
wishes to increase the use of cheaper substitutes such as plywood, whose



-6-
production will be increased by about 36% under the proposed project. Trans-
fer prices of sawnwood and plywood within TC have recently been revised
upwards under the Wood Industries I Project (Cr. 1114-BA) and log prices are
currently being reviewed.
Other Forest Industries
2.18      Other forest industries include bamboo based pulp anA paper
manufacture, firewood and charcoal production, and other activities such as
resin, wax and lac production. Firewood and charcoal production is about
15 M H tons, and is mostly in the private sector. Pulp and paper production
is mostly in the state sector. IManufacturing facilities consist of an
integrated pulp and paperboard mill, and a waste-paper paperboard mill.
Production is about 23,000 tons per annum, providing only about two-thirds of
Burma's paper product consumption. GOB, assisted by consultants, is now
preparing a pulp and paper project for possible IDA financing.
The Timber Corporation (TC)
2.19      TC is a Government-owned corporation, formed under the State Timber
Board Act of 1950 as a separate legal entity with perpetual succession. The
name was changed from State Timber Board to Timber Corporation in 1972. TC
has three main areas of responsibility:
(a)  Extraction of all teak logs and half of the hardwood logs produced
in Burma;
(b)  Operation of most of the wood processing industries in Burma
including all teak sawmills, plywood and veneer mills, furniture
and flooring products factories and about 40% of the hardwood
mills; and
(c) Marketing of wood products, both within and outside Burma.
2.20      Organization.  TC is a large corporation with about /O,000 full
time employees and 600 professional staff. TC, historically, had a func-
tional organization. This was modified in 1976 into a matrix organization,
following the new commercialization guidelines for State Economic Enterprises
(SEE) issued by the Government (para 2.22) and followed by all State owned
corporations such as TC. However, in practice, the emphasis is still on
functional specialization. TC has also created project units (PU) for
developmental purposes. These PU have typically been formed to implement
large, externally assisted development projects. PU have considerable
authority and autonomy within TC, reflected in higher level staffing, direct
access to the Managing Director when needed, and separate financial state-
ments and audits. This arrangement has been very successful in concentrating
effort on areas with the greatest potential for TC; so much so that TC
intends to use similar arrangements for the proposed project.
2.21      Management.  Traditionally TC's management was extraction oriented,
with insufficient emphasis on wood processing industries and marketing. This
resulted in declining product quality and marketing efforts, so that TC's
exports declined sharply. Export volume of teak sawnwood declined by 40%
over five years ending in 1977/78 (63,400 S tons to 38,700 S tons), and, of



-7-
teak logs by 15% (53,700 H tons to 45,600 H tons). In 1977/78, a ?lanaging
Director with stronger marketing and processing background was appointed.
Since then increasing attention has been devoted to these functions and the
export volumes of processed wood products and logs have increased to 71,000 S
tons and 73,000 1I tons respectively in 1981/82, thereby recouping previous
declines. The present management of TC is enthusiastic, energetic and open
to new ideas.
2.22      Operational Autonomy.  TC, like most SEE, had very little opera-
tional autonomy prior to 1975. In Hlay 1975, new guidelines for SEE were
issued. The guidelines gave some financial and operational autonomy; allowed
use of incentives to encourage better performance; and acknowledged that SEE
should make profits. The price revisions made at that tine together with
increased operational autonomy improved the financial viability of most SEE
including TC. Prices have been allowed to increase to cover costs and return
a profit of around 10% on sales. However, substantial central control
remains. Price increases, production targets, and main investment decisions
require Cabinet approval, and some delays in approval do occur.
2.23      Training.  TC currently has a central training school for workers
in Rangoon, but the training school has few permanent staff and therefore
relies solely on practical training in the mills. A UNDP financed and FAO
executed training project (the Technical and Vocational Forestry and Forest
Industries Training Project) is strengthening local training within TC, by
setting up a Forest Industry Training School and developing training skills
within TC.
2.24      Financial Performance.  In 1981/82 TC reported a profit of K 619 It
before tax on a gross revenue of about K 1,173 rI (Annex 1). TC has consis-
tently improved its financial performance over the last five years (Table
2.1). In particular, the performance improved significantly since 1977/78
reflecting improved marketing performance.



-8-
Table 2.1: TIMBER CORPORATION - FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(Mlillion Kyats)
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82
Sales Volume
Teak Log Sales   000 H tons            49        78       66        58        77
Teak Sawnwood    000 S tons            73       113      121       138       147
Plywood           000 m3                6         8         7        8        13
Summary Income Statement
Income                                718    1,229       851    1,289    1,173
Less Expenses                         350      492       404       662       554
Profit Before Tax                     368       737      447       627       619
Profit After Tax                      155      337       161       232       233
Summary Balance Sheet
Current Assets                      1,035    1,337    2,108    2,294    2,443
Fixed Assets                          402       584      520       464       713
Total                               1,437    1,921    2,628    2,758    3,156
Current Liabilities                   565      687    1,277    1,141    1,276
Long Term Debt                        269      361       379       370       472
Equity and Retained Earnings          603      873       972    1,247    1,408
Total                               1,437    1,921    2,628    2,758    3,156
Performance Indices (M)
Profit Before Tax vs Revenues          51       60        53        49        53
Profit After Tax vs Revenues           22       27        19        18        20
Profit After Tax vs Fquity             26        39       17        19        17
Long Term Debt vs Equity               45       41        39        30        33
Current Ratio (fraction)             1.83     1.94      1.65      2.01      1.92
As can he seen from the above table, TC even after heavy taxatton (62% of
income before tax), now has a return of about 17% on equity, and has suc-
ceeded in reducing its long term debt to equity ratio fron 45% to 33%. The
current ratio at around 1.9 gives adequate liquidity to the corporation.
Current assets of TC have increased at a rate of 8% per annum higher than
sales growth (10% per annum) due to increases in extraction capacity coupled
with transport and processing bottlenecks. This has resulted in build up of
log inventories. TC is currently implementing several projects (para 2.26)
and these will assist in removing the transportation and processing bot-
tlenecks.
2.25      Financial Reporting.  TC's financial reporting has also improved
over the last five years, but there is still scope for further improvement.
Annual financial statements are completed almost one year after the end of
the fiscal year. This late preparation delays auditing. TC claims that
accounts from far away agencies are received late because of outdated systems



and procedures which result in communication problems and delays in con-
solidation. Recognizing this problem TC has created separate accounts for
income, assets and liabilities of all externally aided projects. The
preparation and auditing of these project unit financial accounts has
generally been timely. TC has engaged consultants under its Forestry I & II
and lWood Industries I Projects and they are helping to improve the quality of
reporting. ADB assisted Second Forestry Project is also providing 24
man-months of financial consultant assistance.
2.26      Project Implementation Performance.  TC is beneficiary of three IDA
credits (Cr. 493-BA, Cr. 949-BA and Cr. 1114-BA) for Forestry I & II and Wood
Industries I Projects. Forestry I Project has been completed and a PPAR is
being prepared. Initially, Forestry I Project had many inplementation
problems. These related to consultant hiring, vehicle procurement and diesel
supply. These problems were overcome and project unit output is now excel-
lent. Teak extraction volume between 1980 and 1982 exceeded appraisal tar-
gets by about 37%. This more than made up the 35% reduction in the extrac-
tion volume of the lower valued hardwoods during the same period. Conse-
quently the project ERR is estimated to be above 50%, and the NPV (at 10%
discount rate) is 18% higher than SAR estimates. Benefitting from Forestry I
Project experience, progress of the Forestry II Project (effective December
20, 1979) is very good and total log extraction volume to-date of 1.2 T1 H.
tons is ahead of appraisal target of 1.1 M tons. Some problems with exces-
sive hardwood log inventories were experienced. TC is in the process of
solving the problem by increasing hardwood milling capacity and in the mean-
time TC has temporarily reduced hardwood extraction to match existing milling
capacity. TC is also making excellent progress on the W4ood Industries I
Project (effective June 25, 1981). Three of the five project mills have
already started production. Mlachinery for the two remaining mills are arriv-
ing and will be installed within the next year. Project construction is
expected to be completed on schedule in 1985. The following lessons were
learnt from these projects.
a. The establishment of a project unit within TC proved very effec-
tive. It helped in starting geographic decentralization of this
large corporation with operations spread throughout Burma, and at
the same time it allowed better cross-functional (logging and
milling) co-ordination and integration at regional levels;
b. New and more efficient operating systems for log extraction and
transport were developed under Forestry I Project and are being
used in other areas. Decentralized and operationally oriented
accounting systems are, for the first time, help to improve cost
control and decision making at regional level and the good example
has been emulated by other project units;
c. The technical assistance component in Forestry I was only partially
successful. TC had little previous experience in recruitment of
international consultants. In view of this, the process of hiring
individual consultants put too heavy a demand on TC's capacity to
recruit good quality consultants and to supervise and co-ordinate



-10-
their activities after recruitment. Consequently technical assis-
tance design has been modified in subsequent projects and it invol-
ves hiring of one consulting firm which then provides, supervises
and co-ordinates the many individual specialists required;
d. The Forest Feasibility Studies prepared under Forestry I Project
provided detailed background information and thereby provided a
basis for future development in the forestry and forest industries
sector;
e. Though overall equipment procurement was satisfactory, in some
cases problems with incompatible equipment were experienced. The
Wood Industries I Project, therefore, experimented with larger
bidding packages and turn-key contracts. The experipnce so far is
very favourable; the fear that larger packages might lessen com-
petition and increase costs was not warranted. The approach has
helped ensure equipment compatibility and greater technical input
from suppliers in design, installation and start-up. The concept
of larger size, turn-key contract will be used nore frequently in
future projects;
f.  Under the llood Industries I Project, the Bank persuaded TC to
increase its equipment procurement advertisement budget and adver-
tise more widely through trade journals in different countries.
The response has been very favourable, producing more bids, keener
competition and lower cost. Similar procedures will be used in
future projects;
g. The overseas training program in previous projects has been suc-
cessful in familiarizing TC personnel with the latest developments
in forestry and forest industries. It has helped make TC more
outward looking and receptive to new ideas. This has facilitated a
faster modernization of the sector than will have been possible
otherwise;
h. The reporting, disbursement and auditing targets for Forestry I and
II Projects were too ambitious and more realistic targets are now
being used.
Overall the project inplementation performance of TC has been good and the
lessons learnt from previous projects will be used in further 4mproving
performance under the proposed Wood Industries II Project.



-11-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis, Strategy and Objectives
3.01      Recognizing the importance of the forest and forest industries
sector as the second largest foreign exchange earning sector in Burma (para
2.02), and acknowledging the problems created by an old and inefficient
capital stock (para 2.11), in 1974, GOB and TC embarked on a rehabilitation
and modernization program with the Forestry I Project, followed by the
Forestry II and the Wood Industries I projects (para 2.26). During prepara-
tion/appraisal of the Wood Industries I Project it was found that the invest-
ments proposed were too broad for the implementation capability of TC and the
available funding. In addition it was recognized that phasing of this
program was necessary in order to ensure that income will not suffer severe
disruption during rehabilitation. Therefore, many of the proposed invest-
ments were dropped from the first phase program. Later, during an IDA super-
vision mission in late 1981, the proposed second project was identified and
discussed with TC, followed by FAO/CP assisted project preparation in 1982.
The proposed project will continue the program undertaken in the first
project, of improving recovery and quality of semi-finished and finished wood
products, but will also emphasize supplying the domestic narket with cheaper
hardwoods so that some of the valuable teak, now used locally, can be freed
for export. The main objectives of the second project will be to:
a. Improve further the efficiency and product quality of Burma's
export oriented teak processing industry through modernization and
rehabilitation of existing capacity;
b. Improve the supply of hardwood sawn timber and panel products to
the domestic market and thereby reduce the use of teak for con-
struction purposes in the domestic market;
c. Introduce production of block board production for the first time
in Burma; and
d. Advance further the technical and export marketing skills of teak
processing industry personnel, through training and technical
assistance.
Brief Description
3.02      The proposed project will be implemented over four years and will
include:



-12-
a.  Rehabilitation of teak sawmill No. 4 at Ahlone to saw about 45,000
H tons per annum of teak logs using modern band saw technology;
b. Reconstruction of teak sawmill No. 14 at Dallah to saw 45,000 H
tons of teak logs also using more modern band saw technology;
c.  Construction of a new panel products mill at Monywa to produce
4,000 cu m plywood and 1,000 cu m teak veneer annually, and to
introduce production of block board on a pilot scale;
d. Construction of two mobile hardwood sawmills with annual throughput
capacity of 10,000 H tons to be located in north Pegu area;
e. Strengthening and modernizing technical skills of wood industry
personnel through technical assistance and training;
f. Strengthening of administrative and construction facilities; and
g. Incremental working capital.
Detailed Features
3.03      Rehabilitation of Teak Sawmill No. 4 at Ahlone.  The existing mill
is located in Ahlone (Hiap) on the bank of the Rangoon river and is fed logs
from river bank log depots. The mill is 30 years old and because of numerous
breakdowns it is now able to saw only 30,000 H tons of teak logs working a 12
hour shift. The mill consists of two vertical bandsaws, one horizontal resaw
and 37 circular ripping and butting saws. The head mill log deck equipment
and carriage are defective and will be replaced. The log gantry will be
rehabilitated and provided with two new travelling cranes to Improve and
accelerate log handling. The circular saws are old and suffer many break-
downs. These will be replaced by band saws with an automatic feeding system.
The saw dust and waste removal system will be improved. Saw dust from the
headrigs and the band resaws will be conveyed to saw dust bins located near
the existing boilers. Small waste will be conveyed to the boilers while
larger pieces will be carried to the existing waste stores to be sold to the
public. The existing boilers produce steam which is converted directly into
mechanical power for driving the headrigs. The steam also drives two elec-
tricity generators which provide power for the remaining headrig equipment.
The system will be altered slightly and the headrig steam engines will drive
185 KVA generators. The headrigs will be equipped with electric motors
(120-150 hp). The power generated will not be sufficient for the mill's
total energy requirement and additional power will be provided from the EPC
grid through the newly constructed Ahlone sub-station of TC. The movement of
finished goods, specially squares, will be improved by replacing the gantries
and cranes in the square yard. Trucks and trailers will be provided to
transport sawn timber from the scantlings area to storage facilities. The
headrig saw shop will be reequipped with automatic grinders, automatic band
saw sharpeners, equipment for stellite tipping etc. The nill workshop
facilities are inadequate and will be strengthened with new equipment includ-
ing lathes, grinders, a milling machine and hand tools. SawNmill No. 4
rehabilitation will cost US$9 I1 (Annex 2). After rehabilitation Sawmill No.
4 capacity will increase from 30,000 H tons to 45,000 H tons. This will
allow phasing out of 15,000 H ton of old and inefficient teak sawmill
capacity at other locations.



-13-
3.04      Reconstruction of Teak Sawmill No. 14.  Teak Sawmill No. 14 is
located at Dallah on the tWest bank of the Rangoon river (21ap). The location
is excellent from the point of view of raw material supply and the transport
of finished goods. Timber Corporation's two main log depots at Obo and
Kyachung and the Rangoon harbor are within five miles of the mill. Though
the mill was built only about 20 years ago, the construction was done poorly
and the foundations of the mill building are unsafe. Therefore the old mill
building will he dismantled and a new building constructed. This will be
located behind the existing building, so that the new structure can be built
without disturbing existing production. Reinforced concrete piles of 60 to
80 feet length will be used to ensure a sturdy and safe structure. Hill
design and layout will be similar to those used under the previous lWood
Industries Project. An existing log pond will he used for storing teak logs
prior to sawing. The teak logs will be transferred to the mill building
using a gantry and travelling crane to be provided under the project. New
machinery will be installed in the reconstructed mill as the machinery in the
existing sawmill is completely run down. The mill will be eqvtipped with two
head rigs (72" band mills) along with two pony rigs (60" band mills) for
initial sawing (opening) of logs. These will be assisted by 10 band resaws
with merry-go-round systems. The mill will also have 12 rip saws (30"-36"),
two edgers (36"), two multi rip saws and 14 crosscut saws. Live roller ways
and four strand transfer chains will move timber within the mill building.
Green chain conveyors will carry sawn timber from the mill to the sorting
yard. Firewood and saw dust will be conveyed below the main mill floor to
the existing boiler house. Larger pieces of firewood will be sold. Sawn
timber will be moved from the sorting area to the storage and shipping areas
over distances ranging between 200 to 600 feet. Since the soil condition is
poor, the construction of gantries on such land will be very expensive.
Mlovement of finished goods by forklift trucks will be more economic, and such
trucks will be provided. Finished goods will be loaded on to steel barges
and transported directly to ships or the loading wharfs. Electric power for
the mill will come partly from a steam powered generator to be rehabilitated
under the project. This will not be able to meet the total requirement of
the mill and additional power will have to be obtained from EPC. EPC has
indicated that electric power will be available at the Dallah site within the
next three years. During negotiations, GOB gave assurances that EPC will
supply electricity to the Sawmill 14 at Dallah by Mlarch 31, 1987. The
project will provide transformers and switching gear for connecting the
sawmill with EPC's high tension (33 KV) power transmission line. The recon-
struction of the Sawmill 14, including power distribution equipment, will
cost about US$15 H1. After reconstruction, the capacity will be increased
from about 19,000 Hi tons to 45,000 H- tons, allowing phasing out of an addi-
tional 26,000 1 ton of old and inefficient teak sawmilling capacity else-
where.
3.05      Panel Products Mill.  A new panel products mill will be constructed
at Hlonywa, on a site adjacent to a recently constructed hardwood mill. The
site is well located and is adjacent to a railway line and to a highway. The
site is also close to the Chindwin River. Ample supplies of teak (51,000 H
tons) and hardwood (54,000 H tons) logs are rafted down the Chindwin river
system and will be available for the proposed panel products mill and the
existing hardwood sawmill. Electric power is available at the site from
nearby thermal power stations. The proposed mill will be the first panel
products mill in Upper Burma, and will help to satisfy the large demand for



-14-
panel products in and around Hlandalay. An alternative site at Handalay was
also evaluated, hut was not accepted because of poor access, potential delays
in improving access and risks related to the site being in an archeologically
important area. The panel products mill at Monywa will have :wo sliced
veneer lines for producing 0.6 mm thick teak veneer and a peeled veneer line
for producing 1.2 to 1.5 mm thick hardwood core and face venae s from mainly
Dipterocarpus species.  Hardwood core and face veneers and teal face veneers
will be cut, spliced, glued and pressed together to form teak ard hardwood
faced plywood panels of standard dimensions (8'x4') and mostly with three
plies. Initially, interior quality plywood will be produced using
urea-formaldehyde glue, but the mill will also have in-built flexibility to
introduce phenol-formaldehyde bonded exterior quality plywoods in later
years. Since glue (30% of material cost) is currently imported and t will
take a few years to overcome problems being faced by TC's research scale glue
plant, the panel products mill will avoid production of plywoods with more
than five ply. Instead the mill will have a blockboard assembly line for
producing 19 mm thick blockboard utilizing products fron the adjacent
hardwood sawmill. The panel products complex will cost about US$19 M.
3.06      Hardwood HIills in North Pegu:  The project will construct two new
mobile hardwood sawmills. The mills will be located in the North Pegu forest
area near Penwegon town. The area is rich in timber resources with an annual
allowable cut for hardwoods of 29,600 R ton, but due to a shortage of milling
capacity, less than 9,000 H ton per annum has been extracted in the area.
The mobile mills will help in reducing an extraction backlog and will be
established near areas where the Forest Department is clearing forest for
plantations. Such areas provide large quantities of small diameter logs
which are much more economic to saw within the forest due to their low out-
turn percentage. Each mobile mill will have a capacity to process 1.5 H ton
of hardwood logs per hour and will be equipped with a horizontal 48" bandmill
for cutting slabs. A circular saw will also be provided for edging and for
sawing smaller diameter logs and branches which are normally left in the
forest. These mills will be powered by 100 KW wood gas power -lant powered
by ample wood chips and sawdust generated during sawing. This will allow
such mills to be placed inside forest, close to extraction points. To mini-
mize transportation of hardwood logs, such mills will be kept small in size.
All these hardwood mills will be simple in design and configuration, and will
be suitable only for sawing lower quality hardwood to the standards and
prices desired by the domestic market. The mills will cost about K7 Hl
(US$0.9 Hi).
3.07      Strengthening Administrative and Construction Support.  TC's head-
quarters building is over 30 years old, and inadequate for current needs.
The project will provide about 20,000 sq.ft of office space and 7,000 sq.ft
of residential space at a cost of US$0.7 M.  High quality teak logs for
export are also stored in the headquarter complex area. Therefore roads,
security lighting and fencing will be improved at a cost of US$0.3 11. Office
equipment, trucks and vehicles (US$0.4 H1) will be provided to equip project
unit offices. Construction equipment is in short supply and equipment such
as a crane, concrete mixers, vibrators and dump trucks (US$0.7 M) will be
provided to accelerate civil works construction.
3.08      Technical Assistance and Training.  The proposed project will
strengthen the technical skills of TC staff by providing about 26 man-months



-15-
of technical assistance and 111 man-months of foreign training. The techni-
cal assistance will be provided by a suitable consulting firm mainly in the
areas of saw doctoring, panel products production, and production planning
and control. The firm will also provide short-term consultancy and backstop-
ping in problem areas not covered by experts in the field. The consultants
will provide on-the-job training to wood industries staff of TC in Burma, and
for that purpose they will develop operational manuals and other training
material. They will also help in arranging more intensive overseas technical
training visits for selected TC staff. About 35 staff will be sent for
courses lasting from three to six months each. Every effort will be made to
organize the training in groups, with personnel from each project mill being
trained together at the same location. The trained personnel will be
expected to train other TC staff. Close co-ordination with the UNDP training
project (para 2.23) will be maintained, and facilities provided under the
UNDP project utilized for local training. The technical assistance will cost
about US$0.27 M. The average man-month cost, inclusive of a man-month rate,
social overhead, international travel, local allowance, and training equip-
ment and material will be about $10,500. The foreign training will cost
about US$0.28 It at a rate of about S2,500 per man-month.
3.09      Incremental Working Capital.  The project mills will require
increased working capital to cover increased raw material and finished good
inventories, and accounts receivables net of payables. The project will
provide about US$1.1 M to cover incremental working capital needs during the
four year investment phase of the project.
3.10      Environment, Health and Safety:  Existing teak sawmills have
exposed saw blades and inadequate waste material collection system. These
pose both health and fire hazards. The project will improve waste collection
system and provide new sawing equipment with safety features and saw guards.
Project mills will be equipped with sawdust collection equipment and good
ventilation near driers and dust removal systems near sanders. Waste water
will be recycled and mills provided with water treatment plants. The project
will result in substantial improvement in environmental, health and safety
aspects of project mills.
Project Costs and Financing
3.11      Project Costs.  The total project cost will be about US$57 H
(K 452 If) of which US$14 HI (K 114 1I) will be in duties and taxes and US$31 H1
(K 243 H1) in foreign exchange (Table 3.1).



-16-
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMtMARY
Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Exchange
------Kyats   ------   ------US$ M--------    (%)
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation   30        41      71      3.8    5.2    9.0    58.2
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction   55        66    121       7.1    8.3   15.4    54.2
Panel Products Mill             66      81    147       8.3   10.3   18.6    55.2
Hardwood Hfills in North Pegu   3        4       7      0.4    0.5    0.9    57.8
Technical Assistance             -       2       2        -    0.3    0.3   100.0
Training                         -       2       2        -    0.3    0.3   100.0
Strengthening Administrative
Support and Construction    12         5     17       1.5    0.7    2.2    29.3
Incremental Working Capital    9         -      9       1.1      -     1.1        -
Total Baseline Costs           175    202    377       22.2   25.6   47.8    53.5
Physical Contingencies        12      11     23       1.6    1.4    3.0    48.1
Price Contingencies           22      30     52       2.7    3.9    6.6    58.6
Total Project Costs            209    243    452       26.5   30.9   57.4    53.8
Equipment costs are based on March 1983 quotations updated to September 1983.
Civil works costs are based on the Construction Corporation estimates of unit
rates for local construction in FY82/83 updated to September 1983. Physical
contingencies for civil works are estimated at 10%, and for equipment, at 5%.
Price contingencies are based on an estimated local inflation of about 4%
per annum. Inflation in foreign equipment costs is estimated at 8% for 1983,
7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% thereafter. Total physical contingencies
amount to 6.2% of base costs, and price contingencies, 13.4%.
3.12      Financing.  The proposed IDA credit of US$25 H and FINNIDA grant of
US$6 H equivalent will finance the full foreign exchange costs of the
project.  The proposed IDA credit will finance about 58% of tbe total project
cost net of taxes and duties. TC will finance US$26 M of local costs includ-
ing duties and taxes.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign        Total
------------US$ M-----------
IDA                 -           25          25
FINNIDA             -            6           6
TC                 26            -          26
Total              26           31          57
The IDA credit of US$25 Ht and FINNIDA grant of about US$6 H equivalent, will
be onlent by GOB to TC for a period of 15 years, including 5 years grace for



-17-
principal repayments, at 8.5% interest. TC will bear the exchange risk.
Lending rates in Burma range between 5 to 9 percent, and GOB wishes to use an
8.5% interest rate--same as in the IDA financed Construction Industry and
Power Projects.  This interest rate is higher than the current inflation rate
in Burma of about 3% and the future expected rate of 3 to 4%. Therefore the
interest rate is equivalent to a relatively high positive real interest rate
of about 5%. TC is a financially sound corporation and therefore the finan-
cial risk of on-lending for GOB is low. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOB and TC, acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
Procurement
3.13      Procurement of goods and services financed by TC and IDA will be
carried out by a project unit within TC (paras 4.03, 4.04) while FINNIDA will
procure goods and services to be provided through the FINNTIDA grant. Of the
total base project cost of USS47.8 M, the major part (62%) will be for goods
procured following ICB procedures. M1achinery and equipment (US$26.3 11) and
structural steel (US$3.5 H1), not produced in Burma, will be procured follow-
ing ICB procedures and will be eligible for Bank financing. Equipment and
material, such as calculators, office furnishings, and cement (US$2.0 Ht) will
be reserved for local procurement and will not be eligible for IDA financing.
Bulky construction materials such as sand, shingle, bricks and timber (US$3.1
H1) are not suitable for ICB and will be procured locally at prices set by
GOB. Small itens (costing less than US$20,000 cif) and which are not
suitable for ICB, will be purchased through normal GOB procurement procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. These will be limited to US$0.7 M. Plywood
rotary line equipment, technical assistance and training (US$6.8 M) will be
procured by FINNIDA on a tied basis from Finnish suppliers. There are two
main manufacturers of plywood rotary line equipment allowing price competi-
tion. Ouality of these equipment is suitable for Burmese conditions. Most
of the civil works construction and management (US$4.5 HI), not financed by
IDA, will be provided by the Government-owned Construction Corporation (CC)
under a cost plus contract with some minor works (US$0.5 Jl) being undertaken
by TC itself. The construction works are small and dispersed over five sites
in three Provinces and will not be of interest to foreign contractors. Fol-
lowing Government policy, CC is the only construction agency in Burma that
can build plywood mills and teak sawmills. The construction capacity of CC
is also being strengthened under an IDA assisted Construction Industry
Project. The remaining cost is for incremental working capital (US$1.1 M).
Disbursement
3.14      Disbursements under the credit (Annex 3) will be completed by
M1arch 31, 1990--approximately six years after Board presentation. The
project disbursement period is slightly shorter than the eight year disburse-
ment period experienced by typical IDA assisted projects in the past. The
projected period is reasonable in view of the disbursement experience of the
ongoing W4ood Industry I Project which is ahead of the typical IDA disburse-
ment profile and similarly good performance under the proposed project is
expected. Disbursements from the IDA credit will be made for:
a. 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported machinery, equip-
ment, and vehicles or 100% of local expenditure on locally manufac-
tured goods-exfactory (US$21.5 H1);



-18-
b.  100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported construction
material or 100% of local expenditure on locally produced construc-
tion material-exfactory (US$3.5 M); and
c.  100% of foreign expenditures on technical assistance and training
(US$0.7 II).
Applications for withdrawals will be fully documented and no statements of
expenditures will be necessary.
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
3.15      All GOB departments and corporations are required to prepare an
annual budget for approval by their Ministry and then by the Finance Minis-
try, the Economic Committee, and the Cabinet. Even though a project may have
been approved and foreign financing assured, a corporation may not be able to
implement the project if the required expenditures are above the budgeted
expenditure. The budget revision procedure is time consuming. Consequently
sone IDA assisted projects have suffered delays. During negotiations, GOB
gave assurances that the draft project budget and implementation plan for
each fiscal year will be sent to IDA for review by September 30 of the
preceding fiscal year, i.e., 8 months before the start of the fiscal year.
This arrangement will give IDA the opportunity to assess the adequacy of
financial provisions in advance of the start of the fiscal year, and the
opportunity of bringing to the notice of GOB any comments it might have.
3.16      TC maintains accounts according to procedures and forms specified
by the Mlinistry of Planning and Finance. Separate accounts are kept for each
project unit, each Division and State office and for each department of TC.
TC is presently about a year behind in preparing its financial statements
(para 2.25). To avoid delays in getting project expenditures audited, during
negotiations GOB gave assurances that separate project accounts will be
established in a format similar to those agreed upon in the Wood Industries
I Project.
3.17      The budgetary control on each account is maintained through a
preaudit of any proposed expenditure. Expenditures beyond budget allocations
cannot be made. The procedure does not allow a corporation to accelerate
project implementation without a time consuming supplementary budget proce-
dure. This re-emphasizes the importance of careful monitoring of annual
project budgets.
3.18      The Central Accounts Office (CAO), acting on behalf of the Council
of People's Inspectors, is responsible for auditing government agency
accounts, including TC's accounts. CAO has performed audits of project unit
accounts usually on time, but has been unable to do so for other TC accounts
because of late submission of those accounts. CAO will be acceptable to IDA
as an independent auditor. During negotiations GOB gave assurances that:
a. Project unit financial statements will be made available for audit-
ing and to IDA within six months of fiscal year end; and
b. Project unit audited financial statements and audit report will
be made available to IDA within nine months of fiscal year end.



-19-
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The proposed project will be implemented by a semi-autonomous
project unit (PU) within the Timber Corporation. A similar organizational
structure was followed under previous TC implemented projects and found to be
successful. This is due to the fact that such units have considerable
authority and autonomy within TC, reflected in higher level staffing, direct
access to the Managing Director when needed, and separate financial state-
ments and audits. The unit will continue to operate after project construc-
tion and will handle initial operation of the project mills. The Wood
Industries PU will form the nucleus for a Wood Industries Department to be
created within TC.
PU Organization - Brief Description
4.02      The PU will be headed by a Project Director (PD) of the rank of a
Deputy General Mlanager or higher who will supervise two operational units
and three support units (Annex 4). These will be:
I.  Operational Units
a. Civil W4orks Construction Supervision Unit
b. Equipment Installation and Operating Unit
II. Support Units
a. Administration
b. Finance
c. Audit
The PD will be assisted by the team of technical assistance consultants, a
liaison officer, and PU main office staff. Formation of the PU within TC and
appointment of a Project Director and two Deputy Directors for the PU will be
a condition of credit effectiveness.
PU Organization - Detailed Features
4.03      Civil Works Construction Supervision Unit (CSU).  CSU will be
responsible for the supervision and monitoring of civil works construction
under the project (para 4.13), and will be headed by a Deputy Project Direc-
tor. CSU will also be responsible for the procurement of construction
material and equipment and for the inspection of civil works, and material
and labor utilization.
4.04      Equipment Installation and Operating Unit (EIU).  EIU will be
responsible for equipment procurement, mill layout and foundation specifica-
tion, and equipment installation. EIU will also be responsible for running
project mills. EIU will be headed by a Deputy Project Director, who will
supervise one operational and one support sub-unit. The operational unit
will supervise project mill operation during the construction/rehabilitation
period. The unit will specify mill layout and foundation requirements for



-20-
CSU to follow, and later they will supervise equipment installation and start
up. The support unit will be responsible for planning and for procurement of
equipment.
4.05      The Administration unit will be responsible for personnel policies,
benefits, tr'nsfers and promotions. They will discharge these functions in
consultation with unit/sub-unit managers. Administration will also be
responsible for ensuring that all PU positions are filled promptly with
qualified staff.
4.06      The Finance Unit.  The PU will maintain separate accounts which
will be prepared by accounting staff of project mills, supervised and
assisted by the finance unit. The finance unit will be headed by an Assis-
tant PD. The unit will have three assistant managers responsible for proper
accounting of project expenditures for material, equipment and manpower. In
addition the unit will have two sections, one responsible for monitoring and
reporting, and the other, for cost accounting. The monitoring and reporting
section will supervise preparation of quarterly financial statements by mill
accountants. They will also monitor project progress in terms of physical
targets and prepare quarterly progress reports. The cost accounting section
will have the major responsibility for introducing industrial cost accounting
in the project mills and will be assisted by a consultant under the technical
assistance program.
4.07      Internal Audit.  The project unit will have an internal audit unit
with two inspection teams. The audit unit will ensure that project funds are
spent properly for the purposes of the project and also that the project
expenditures had been correctly recorded in the project accounts.
Project Unit Management and Staffing
4.08      The Project Director will be a high level officer of TC with direct
access to the Managing Director. Because of the need for close coordination
with the Miarketing and Milling Department, he will be an officer with close
ties to that department. TC has already designated an officer meeting those
criteria as the Project Director of PU.
4.09      CSU will be staffed with engineering staff from the Engineering
Department of TC. EIU will be staffed with TC personnel, mostly from the
Milling and Marketing Department.  The existing staff of teak sawmills No.
4 and 14 numbering about 2,000, will be transferred to EITJ. Staff for the
equipment procurement section and central workshop will come f-om the
Engineering Department of TC. The project mills are at present managed by
generalists with very few technical specialists. Typically, the mills do not
have any engineers responsible for industrial engineering functions such as
production and quality control. Consequently, these functions are neglected
and contribute towards the low capacity utilization, high material wastage,
and low product quality. During negotiations, GOB gave assurances that TC
will appoint at least one engineer with a mechanical or industrial engineer-
ing background in each of the project teak sawmills and at the panel products
mill in a timely manner and make them responsible for production and quality
control.  The Rangoon Institute of Technology produces such graduates and
therefore TC will be able to hire such engineers locally. Initially these
engineers will be assisted and trained by foreign consultants under the
technical assistance program.



-21-
4.10      The new mills will require an additional 556 positions.  These will
be required only after construction and installation are completed. TC
currently has about 44,000 sanctioned posts and does not anticipate problems
in absorbing these additional positions.
4.11      The three support units, administration, finance and audit, along
with the PU central office will have about 110 positions. Most of these will
be filled with experienced staff from TC headquarters.
Mlarketing
4.12      Responsibility for marketing will remain within the existing
MIarketing and HIilling Department (TAID). Teak sawnwood and veneer will be
exported through the Export Division of MMID.  New product sales and promo-
tion unit of the Export Division will handle teak veneer sales; the Export 1
(Europe, America, Australia) and the Export 2 (Asia) units will be respon-
sible for teak sawnwood exports. Local sales will be co-ordinated by the
Hardwood Hlilling and Distribution Division of MAMD.
Other Agencies Involved in Project Implementation
4.13      The Construction Corporation.  As a policy of GOB, permanent civil
works in Burma are undertaken by the GOB owned Construction Corporation (CC)
unless the works are beyond CC's capacity. For this project, the major
strlctures will be constructed by CC under cost-plus contracts with TC.  The
design section within CC will prepare detailed construction drawings. CC
will undertake construction using the existing Wood Industry I construction
unit in Rangoon and the Sagaing Forestry Project construction unit at Monywa.
TMost civil works construction under these projects will be completed before
the start of Wood Industries II Project construction. During negotiations
GOB gave assurances that CC will assign by July 31, 1984 a project coor-
dinator to coordinate construction work amongst TC, CC's design section and
the project construction units.
4.14      TC is supervised by the IMinistry of Agriculture and Forests which,
subject to the Cabinet endorsement, approves major TC decisions such as new
investments and also annual budgets. The Ministry of Planning and Finance
(MPF), through its Budget Department, is involved in review of project
proposals and in annual budget approval; through the Equipment Control Com-
mittee (ECC), in approving new projects and their equipment list; through the
Foreign Economic Relations Department, in arranging foreign financing; and
through the Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department (PAPRD), in
project appraisal especially of the project unit organization, in very
limited monitoring of project progress, and finally in preparing a completion
report. Since MPF clearances of the proposed project can cause delays in
project startup, such clearances were obtained prior to credit negotiations.
The Cabinet approved the project and the negotiated draft credit agreement on
December 6, 1983.
Implementation Schedule
4.15      The project will be implemented over a five-year period ending on
September 30, 1989 (Annex 4). TC has already designated the PD and prepared
draft tender documents. These documents have been cleared by the equipment



-22-
specifications committee of MAF, and a general procurement notice published
in the Development Forum. Equipment procurement for components requiring
little civil works construction (teak sawmill No. 4 and hardwood mills) will
be taken up first along with procurement of construction equipment. A period
of eighteen months has been allowed for major equipment procurement. Civil
works will be constructed over a four-year period. Site planIs, mill layouts
and detailed specifications for the majority of equipment have been prepared
and TC intends to start tendering shortly.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
Production
5.01      Project mills will produce mainly teak and other hardwood sawnwood,
teak faced and other plywood, teak veneer, and blockboard. Low grade teak
sawnwood and firewood will be produced as byproducts and will be sold on the
local market. Table 5.1 shows incremental production at full development
(year 8), based on a two-shift operation.
Table 5.1: PROJECT PRODUCTION (Year 8)
Incremental
Without Project    With Project        Production
Quantity Value Ouantity Value Ouantity Value
(K H1)           (K H1)             (K TH)
Main Products
Teak Sawnwood-Export Grade
('000 S ton)               31.0  185.7      34.6      228.1    3.6    42.4
Teak Faced Plywood
(M sq.ft.)                    -       -      4.8        9.9    4.8      9.9
Other Plywood (Hf sq.ft.)       -       -       6.4      10.1    6.4    10.0
Teak Veneer (M sq.ft.)           -      -      13.6      13.6   13.6    13.6
Block Board (HI sq.ft.)         -       -       1.6       5.0    1.6      5.0
Hardwood-lower grade
('000 S ton)           -      -       4.7        3.6    4.7      3.6
Byproducts
Teak Sawnwood-Local Grade
('000 S ton)                7.7   13.9       8.6       15.6    0.9      1.7
Firewood ('000 S ton)        22.q    2.0      25.7        2.2    2.8      0.2
Export Markets and Marketing
5.02      Export grade teak sawnwood will form the bulk of the project
production (78%) and exports (94%). The market for teak sawnwood is strong
and the average export price for teak sawnwood increased by about 20% per
annum compounded, over the last decade. In January 1983, TC had an order
backlog of about 47,000 S ton which represents about 8 months export produc-
tion. The large export order backlog, inspite of the recessionary climate,
shows the strength of market demand. The project incremental production of
about 3,600 S tons forms only 5% of total teak sawnwood exports from Burma
(73,000 S tons), will therefore not present any marketing problems.



-23-
5.03      Teak sawnwood prices are sensitive to quality and size differences.
Burmese sawnwood export prices range between USL300-3,000 per S ton, with an
average price     >'--ut "S$770 (7 6,&n  per 0 ton f.o.b. Rangoon.  The price
is low when compared with retail prices in Europe and America, which averages
around US$2,500--a difference of about 225%. A part of the difference (about
40%) is due to product mix differences and transport cost, but the major part
(about 130%) is due to marketing channel costs and poor quality sawing.
5.04     IMarketing channel costs are high for several reasons.  TC's ability
to respond quickly to export orders is limited by the low frequency of sail-
ings to Europe, North America and Mfiddle-East. Therefore either the con-
sumers have to maintain large stocks and bear the carrying costs and risks,
or they have to deal with stockists in Hong Kong and Singapore, whose margins
are large to cover their transhipment, warehousing and capital costs. TC
could give better service by transhipping at Singapore and realize better
prices, but inadequate container service from Rangoon port at present makes
that option unattractive. The IDA assisted Third Ports Project will provide
additional equipment and container yards to improve container operations and
cargo handling at the Rangoon port.
5.05      Prices are also low due to poor quality sawing in old mills.  The
project will improve sawing quality through sawmill modernization. TC
estimates that the improved quality will yield an average of 20% higher
prices. The estimate may be optimistic and a 10% increase is considered to
be more reasonable.
5.06      The teak sawnwood price structure set by TC also shows some
anomalies. Very thin teak scantlings (sawnwood below 2" thickness) require
more sawing and therefore have a higher cost of production. Nevertheless TC
has in some cases priced these thin scantlings lower than the standard size
scantling. Consequently the demand to supply ratio is much higher for such
thin pieces, and sawmill managers are sometimes forced to cut more to supply
such pieces. This increases production cost and reduces TC revenue. TC now
recognizes these anomalies and has agreed to increase export prices of thin
teak scantlings. During negotiations, GOB gave assurances that teak sawnwood
price structure will be reviewed annually and the results of such review
discussed with IDA by September 30 of each year. The review will consider
all relevant aspects in setting prices including market demand and cost of
production.
5.07     W4hile teak sawnwood exports will represent 94% of project exports
and therefore should continue to receive the major export marketing effort, a
non traditional export product such as teak veneer is also important from a
longer term marketing strategy view point. TC's ability to increase total
teak export volume is limited by the annual allowable cut (AAC) for teak.
Therefore, TC can only expand its revenue by increasing the local value
added. The non-traditional export products offer the best opportunity for
doing that. The project will increase production volume of teak veneer, and
through the new product sales and promotion unit of TC formed under the Wood
Industries I Project, TC will devote a special marketing effort to promoting
sales of teak veneer, commensurate with its strategic significance.



-24-
5.08      Pricing of non-traditional export products will have to be very
competitive in the beginning so as to increase TC's market penetration. TC
realizes that and is proposing realistic prices for these products; the teak
veneer price will average US$0.127 per sq. ft. With increased marketing
effort TC can realize prices significantly higher than this projected price.
Local Mlarkets and Mlarketing
5.09      Local markets are supply constrained.  GOB policy is against market
determined prices, because of a very deep concern about inflation. GOB sets
local prices of TC products using a formula based on standard costs and a 10%
profit margin allowance. Table 5.3 shows GOB local prices for major product
categories.
Table 5.3: LOCAL PRICES
Product                            Price
(Kyats)
Local Grade Teak Sawnwood          K 1,250 -  1,800 per S ton
Teak Plywood (3.6 mm)              K 50 - 76 per sheet of 3? sq. ft.
Other Plywood (4 mm)               K 40 - 57 per sheet of 32 sq. ft.
Hardwood Sawnwood                  K 750 - 850 per S ton
5.10      While the Government policy of setting prices at cost plus 10%
profit margin is adequate, and will result in reasonable prices for TC
products, agencies are sometimes slow in recognizing increases in the cost
of production and in revising local prices. During negotiations, GOB gave
assurances that the cost of production and prices of panel products and
hardwood sawnwood will be reviewed annually and discussed with IDA by Septem-
ber 30 of each year, and that subsequent action will be taken within the next
year to ensure that average profit margin will be maintained at a level that
is in compliance with SEE guidelines of GOB.



-25-
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01    The main project beneficiaries will be TC and its sole owner--GOB.
The project will be financially attractive to both beneficiaries. It will
support future capital formation within TC and will help GOB Budget.
Financial Benefits
6.02    The project will generate about K 88 It in incremental revenues
annually after project completion (Table 6.1).
Table 6.1: INCREMFENTAL REVENUES (Year 8)
(Tlillions of 1983 Kyats)
Teak      Teak
Sawmill   Sawmill    Panel
Rehabi-   Recons-   Products  Hardwood
litation  truction    Mill       Mill    Overhead  Total
Income
Gross Revenue            22          22         40         4           -      88
Expenditure               1           2         14         2           1      20
Net Income before
Depreciation,
Interest and Tax       21          20        26          2          -1      68
Distribution
GOB-Taxes and             9           6          8         1           -      24
Contribution
TC-Retention             12          14         18         1          -1      44
of which:
Interest                                                                    11
Depreciation                                                                25
Other                                                                        8
About K 68 M will be left for distribution after expenditures. 35 of the
benefits will go to GOB as taxes and contribution, leaving about K 42 M for
TC. These incremental retained earnings will be sufficient to service debt.
GOB will also receive about K 114 It in duties and taxes during project con-
truction, and will therefore be the main beneficiary of the project.



-26-
Project Operating Cost
6.03    Operating costs of project mills will be about 38,' of project
revenues (Table 6.2).
Table 6.2: PU OPERATING COST STRUCTURE (Year 8)
(Mlillions of 1983 Kyats)
Total                 Incremental
Cost   % of Revenue       Cost   % of Revenue
Raw Mlaterial             60        21               9          10
Labor                     10         3               3           3
Energy and Fuel            2         1               1           1
Depreciation              26         9              25          29
Other                     13         4               7           8
Total                    111       38               45          51
The main operating cost item is raw material which includes royalties and
forms about 21% of revenue and 61% of operating costs in financial prices.
A major aim of the project will be to increase project mills' efficiency by
making better use of an expensive raw material such as teak. This is
reflected in the incremental raw material cost ratio which will fall to only
10% of incremental revenue. The depreciation at 9% is low, because the
project mills have substantial old investment which, in accordance with
Burmese accounting practice, is not revalued. The high incremental profit
margin of 49% ensures that the fiscal rate of return on the incremental
investment will be attractive (para 6.04).
Financial and Fiscal Rates of Return
6.04    The financial rate of return (FRR) on project investments is about
11% which is above both the real (5%) and nominal cost (8.5%) of financing
the project and therefore the project will generate sufficient incremental
revenues to service debt. Since TC is wholly owned by GOB, a better measure
of financial incentive for the owner is provided by the fiscal rate of return
on investment (FISRR), which measures the impact of the project on the
Budget. The project FISRR will be 23%, which will be very beneficial for
GOB's Budget (Table 6.3)



-27-
Table 6.3: FINANCIAL AND FISCAL RATES OF RETURN
(Percent per annum)
Proportion of
Financial   Fiscal   Project Cost
Total Project                           11          23           100
Components:
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation           19          36            19
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction           13          21            33
Panel Products Mill                    7          19            40
Hardwood Hill Rehabilitation          15          25             2
Overhead                               -           -             6
6.05      The fiscal impacts of individual components are all quite attrac-
tive; they range between 19% for the panel products mill to over 36% for
hardwood mill rehabilitation. FISRR for teak sawmill rehabilitation is
limited. The panel products mill has a satisfactory fiscal return, but the
FRR is low due to heavy duties and taxes.
Sources and Applications of Funds
6.06    PU will be able to finance a major portion of investments in fixed
assets from internally generated funds (Table 6.4).



-28-
Table 6.4:  PU-SUMARY SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(Millions of Current Kyats)
Years 1-5             Years 6-10
Amount   Percent      Amount   Percent
Sources
Operations                     749       73         1,188        99
IDA Loan                       239       23             5         1
TC Contribution                 40        4                       -
Total                        1,028      100         1,193       100
Applications
Working Capital                 21        2            14         1
Fixed Assets                   427       42             5         1
Debt Service                    67        6           186        15
GOB (Income Tax)               402       39           581        49
Surplus (Other Assets)         111       11           407        34
Total                        1,028      100         1,193       100
Debt Service Ratio (M)
Average                                   9                      16
Mlaximum                                 20                      19
The debt service ratio will be small and will never exceed 20%.  The low debt
service ratio and high cash flow from operations will ensure that PU will
have the financial capacity to take up subsequent wood industries projects.
Financial Structure of the Project Unit (PU)
6.07    The PU will report, as a separate financial entity within TC, with
preparation of a separate balance sheet, income statement and audit report
(para 3.19). PU balance sheet projections (Annex 5) shows a sound financial
structure. Long term debt to equity ratio will remain below 45:55 and the
current ratio will remain above 2.0.
6.08    A similar analysis of TC as a whole (Annex 5) shows an equally sound
financial structure with long term debt remaining less than 40% of capital
and current ratio above 1.91.
Impact of PU on Overall TC
6.09    By year 8 of the project (full production) the PU will generate 18%
of TC sales and contribute 16% towards retained earnings. This will be
accomplished with 12% of the assets (Table 6.5).



-29-
Table 6.5: SUIMARY STATEMENTS (YEAR 8)
TC         Project      PU as a
Overall       Unit        % of TC
(itillion of Constant Kyats)
Income Statement
Gross Revenue                                1,645          289           18
Operating Cost                                 622           84           14
Income Before Taxes                          1,023         205            20
(Million of Current Kyats)
Income Before Taxes                          1,400         280           20
Less:  Depreciation and Interest                125          51           41
Less:  Taxes and Contribution to GOB            848         160           19
Retained Earnings                              427           69           16
(TMillion of Current Kyats)
Balance Sheet
Assets - Current                             3,676           74            2
- Fixed (Net)                           813         244           30
- Other                               1,127         341           30
- Total                               5,616         658           12
Liabilities - Current                         1,795          30            2
- Long Term Debt                  241         133           55
- Equity                        3,580         495            14
- Total                         5,616         658            12
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIIC ANALYSIS
General
7.01      The project forms part of the Government's development strategy
for the forest and forest industries sector, which emphasizes higher export
earnings through better material utilization and efficiency in Burma's teak
sawmills through modernization and rehabilitation. The project will also
support the Government objective of increasing local processing and
availability of its agriculture and forest exports by increasing production
of teak veneer for exports, and of panel products and hardwood sawnwood for
local market.
Benefits
7.02      The project will increase teak sawnwood output by about 3,600 S
tons and improve quality of about 34,600 S tons of export grade teak
sawnwood. Teak faced plywood production will increase by 5 II sq.ft., other
plywood, by 16 M sq.ft.; teak veneer, by 14 I1 sq.ft.; blockboard by 1.6 rI
sq.ft.; and hardwood sawnwood by 4,700 S tons.



-30-
7.03      The project production will increase Timber Corporation's annual
revenues by about US$11 M, of which US$7 M (64%) will be in foreign exchange.
Net benefits will be distributed between GOB and TC with one-third going to
GOB (Table 7.1).
Table 7.1:  SOURCES AND DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT BENEiITS
(Millions of Kyat per year)
Incremental
Source              With Project      Without Project    1M Kyat         %
Local                   47                   15               32         36
Export                 242                  186               56         64
Total                  289                  201               88        100
Distribution
Operating Cost          84                   64               20         23
GOB                    117                   93               24         27
TC for Capital          88                   44               44         50
Total                  289                  201               88        100
Non-Ouantified Benefits
7.04      Environment and Health.  The Project will improvTe the environment
by providing better dust and waste material collection facilities in the
reconstructed and rehabilitated mills and factories. Project sawmills will
have better safety features than the existing mills. The plywood mills will
have good ventilation near dryers, and dust removal systens near sanders.
7.05      Technology Transfer.  Technical assistance and training will help
with technology transfer to TC's staff, benefits from which will flow to
subsequent projects also. This is specially true for non-traditional
products such as teak veneer, furniture, joinery and flooring products,
production of which TC wants to expand in future.
Economic Analysis
7.06      The project economic rate of return (ERR) will he about 2/%, with
ERR for components ranging between 19 and 37% (Table 7.2). The benefit/cost
analysis is made in border kyats. International prices have been converted
to kyats at the current exchange rate. Local prices have been converted to
border kyats by means of an appropriate conversion factor.



-31-
Table 7.2: ECONOMIIC RATE OF RETURN
(Percent)
Components                         ERR      % of Project Cost
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation         37               19
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction          26              33
Panel Products Mill                  19              40
Hardwood Mills                       19               2
Joint Overhead Costs                 _                6
Total Project                        25             100
7.07      Teak sawmill modernization will improve raw material utilization
and quality, and produce about US$6 If annual incremental benefits About 90%
of the benefits will be from export and the benefit conversion factor (CF) is
close to 1 (Annex 6). The operating cost CF is about 1.4 due to low transfer
(financial) price for raw material (teak logs). Its impact on ERR is insig-
nificant due to the low level of incremental operating costs (about 5% of
incremental benefits). Capital cost of about $24 M includes about 50% duties
and taxes on foreign costs. Therefore, the CF for foreign costs is 0.67.
A general conversion factor (GCF) of 0.8 has been used for the local civil
works, yielding an average capital cost CF of 0.69. The ERR for teak
rehabilitation (37%) is higher than for reconstruction (26%) because it
involves improved utilization of existing facilities.
7.08      For the panel products mill the main benefit will come from produc-
tion of plywood and block-board for the local market and teak veneer for
export. CF for benefits range between 0.97 to 1.01. Incremental operating
costs take up about 48% of incremental benefits. About 42% of operating
costs are for raw material consisting of logs and imported supplies. Trans-
fer prices of logs are low, therefore a CF of 2.06-7.13 is used, based on
the export price of comparable quality logs. Imported supplies bear a heavy
tax burden; therefore a CF of 0.7 is used for them. Labor is valued using
the GCF of 0.8. The capital cost mainly consists of imported equipment which
bear 50% duties and taxes. CF on imported equipnent is 0.67, and on local
civil works, 0.8, yielding an average CF of 0.72. The ERR for panel products
mill will be about 19%.
7.09      Hardwood mills will derive their main benefit from production of
sawnwood for the supply constrained local market. The CF for sawnwood is
around 1.0. Hardwood logs account for about half of the operating costs.
CF for hardwood logs is based on border prices for similar quality logs.
Labor is valued using the GCF of 0.8 and other operating costs have an
average CF of 1.01. Capital costs have an average CF of 0.71 based on a CF
of 0.67 on nachinery and 0.8 on civil works. Based on the foregoing the
hardwood mills component will have an ERR of about 19%.



-32-
Sensitivity Analysis
7.10      Switching values at an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 12%
have been estimated for all benefit and cost CF, and for production levels
(Annex 6, Tables 7-9). These values are summarized in Table 7.3.
Table 7.3: SWITCHING VALUES
Percent Change in Incremental Benefits & Costs
Operating    Capital
Benefits       Costs        Costs     Production
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation       - 66         +  72        +  72          - 70
Teak Sawmill Recoastruction       - 50         +  72        + 106          - 95
Panel Products Mill               - 19         +  46        +  47          - 32
Hardwood htills                   - 68         +  11        +  38          - 28
Project                           - 36         + 149        + 100          - 50
7.13      Project returns are relatively insensitive to operating and capital
costs.  These can individually double without affecting project viability.
The project is also not very sensitive to production levels. Even if only
half the projected increase in production were realized, the project will
still be viable. This also implies low sensitivity to delays in production
due to slow implementation. Even if project production were delayed by six
years, the ERR will remain above 12%. The chances of such delay are very
low. The project is relatively more sensitive to changes in benefits through
changes in price, but all prices will have to fall by more than a third
before the project ERR will fall below 12%. That is considered unlikely and
the risk of the project ERR falling below 12% is therefore very low.
7.14      The greatest sensitivity of component specific ERR is for invest-
ments in hardwood mills, and therefore has the highest risk. However, the
size of this component has been kept small (2% of project cost) and therefore
it has negligible impact on project risk.
Project Risks
7.15      The proposed project is the second IDA assisted wood industries
project in Burma, and is based on the good implementation experience of the
first project. TC wood products have excellent demand (Chapter 5) and TC has
managed to increase revenues even in a recessionary world economy. There-
fore, both implementation and market risks are minimal.



-33-
VIII. RECOTITENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, GOB gave the following main assurances:
(a)  A draft project budget and implementation plan will be sent to IDA
for review before September 30 of the preceding fiscal year (para
3.15).
(b)  Separate project accounts will be established and maintained (para
3.16).
(c)  Project unit financial statements will be made available for audit-
ing and to IDA within six months of each fiscal year end (para
3.18).
(d)  Project unit audited financial statements and audit reports will be
made available to IDA within nine months of each fiscal year end
(para 3.18).
(e)  The teak sawnwood price structure will be reviewed annually and the
results of such review discussed with IDA by September 30 of each
year. The review will consider all relevant aspects in setting
prices including market demand and cost of production (para 5.06).
(f)  The cost of production and prices of panel products and hardwood
sawnwood will be reviewed annually and discussed with IDA by Sep-
tember 30 of each year, and subsequently actions tal-n within the
next year to ensure that average profit margin will be maintained
at a level that is in compliance with SEE guidelines of GOB (para
5.10).
8.02      The following will be conditions for credit effectiveness:
(a)  Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and TC,
acceptable to IDA (para 3.12).
(b)  Formation of a project unit within TC for implenenting the project
and appointment of a Project Director and two Deputy Directors for
the project unit (para 4.02).
8.03      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project will
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$25 Ii equivalent.



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Balance Sheet - Timber Corporation
MILLIONS OF KYATS                          PERCENT OF SALES
77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82       77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                            1      9 91    96     34      85          3       7     11       3       7
AF.COUNTS RECEIVABLE           588    725  1,095  1,198  1,290           82      59    129      93    110
INVENTORIES                    428    521    917  1,OG2  1,068           60     42    108       82     91
TOTAL                        1,035  1,337  2,108  2,294  2,443          144    109    248    178    208
FIXED ASSETS
BUILDINGS & MACHINERIES ED   575    794    767    790  1,081             80     65      90      61      92
LESS: DEPRECIATION             173    210    247    326    368           24      17     29      25     31
NET FIXED ASSETS               402    584    520    464    713           56     48      61      36      61
lOTAL ASSETS                 1,437  1,921  2,628  2,758  3,156          200    156    309    214    269
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
----------------------
CURRENT LIABILITIES            565    687  1,277  1,141  1,275           79     56    150       89    109
LONG TERM LOAN                 269    361    379    370    472           37     29      45      29      40
__ _   - - - - -   - - - - -   - - - --  _ _ - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  _  _ _
TOTAL DEBT                     834  1,048  1,657  1,511  1,748          i1S     85    195    117    149
1--QUUITY
CAPITAL                        260    260    261    392    397           3S     21      31      30     34
RE7TAINED EARNINGS             344    613    711    855  1,011           48     50      84      66     86
TOTAL EQUITY                   603    873    971  1,247  1,408           84     71    114       97    120
*OTAL LIAB. & EQUITY         1,437  1,921  2,628  2,758  3,156          200    15S    309    214    269
C-RRENT RATIO(%)               183    194    165    201    192
LTD TO EGUITY(%)                45     41      39      30     34                                                  S 9
rD X



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Income Statement - Timber Corporation
MILLTONS OF KYATS                            PERCENT OF SALES
_ - - - - - -  - -                           - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- --_ _    _ _       _ _    _ _ _    _ _  
77/78  78/79  7S/80  80/81  81/82         77/78  78/79  79/80  BO/81  81/82
I NCOME
SALES                           718  1,229    849  1T282  1.167            100     100     100      99     100
O THER INCOME                                     2       8       5                                  1
lOTAL INCOME                    718  1,2Z9    851  1Z8S  1l,173            1 00    100    100      100     100
EXPENDITURE
SALARIES & WAGES                147    150    i29    i.70    175            20      12      15      13      15
i'AINTENANCE                     30      30      37      20      37          4       2       4       2       3
CrHER COGS                      124    257    131    329    243             17      21      15      26      21
_--     -- -    ---- _----__ _*____ _          _ ---- - --  -- - --  -- - --  -- - --  -- - --  - - - - -
SJB TOTAL(COGS)                 302    437    297    520    455             42      3S      35      40      39
MARKETING & OVERHEAD             15      23      64      92      5           3       2       7       7       6
DEPRECIATION                     30      33      43      50      35          4       3       5       4       3
TOTAL OPERATING COST            350    492    404    S62    554             49      40      47      51      47
NET INCOME
PROFIT BEFORE INT. & TAX        368    737    447    627    618             51      s0      53      49      53
LESS: INTEREST                    6      13      20      22      27          1       1       2       2       2
PRCFI.- BEFORE TAXES            362    724    427    60C5    591            50      89      50      47      50
ILESS: EPEF TAX                 :13    287      163    241    246           1S      22      19      19      21
LFSS: C&S TAX                    95    119    103    132    112             13      10      12      10      10
PROFIT AFTER TAX                155    337    161    232    233             22      27               s 18   20
i-FSS: CONTRIBUTION TO STATE   23        68      48      70      70          3       6       6       5       6
NET INCOME                      132    270      113    162    163           18      22      1 3     13      14
m >4
t' H



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES 1I PROJECT
Sumeary Account bv Tise
(KYATS '000)
Base Costs *
Price Cont.
Base Costs                     Foreign Exchanse  on Base    Total Incl.
----------------------------   ------ ------------------------------  Costs         Cant.
84/85     85/86     86U87    87/88      Total            A ount   (USS '000)  (USS '000)
1. INVESTIiENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                17,298.4   46,569.1 33,891.4    531.6   98,290.6  23.1   229665.3       13v839.6    15.223,6
B. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                     64,991.9  184,953.5  2,560.7  3098.0  255,604.2  66.1  168,972.4       36,700.7    38,535.8
C. INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT AND NACHINERY           -    1,099.5  2,135.8  69650.0   9,885.3  57.4    5p676.1         1,535.2      1,611.9
D. OTHERS                                        266.0    1,197.0  4,150.0  7Y602.6   13,215.6  32.8   4,340.6         1,973.6    2,007.2
_oa__E__TCSS8 _5.    23_,819.1 --,738-0 17-882.2  376-995.6 _ 3__   201,--4-- _4_049_1 --7,378---5
Total IWVESTkiENT COSTS                          82,556.3  233,819.1 42,73B.0 17fB82,2  376Y995.6  53.5  201f654,4       549049.1    579378.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                              82,556,3  233,819.1 429738.0 17,882.2  376,995,6  53.5  201,654,4       549049.1    57,378.5
Physical Contingencies                          4,992.7   13,985.5  3,741.6    600.7   23,320.6  48.1   11,216.0              -
Price Contingencies                             5,979.3  34,045.4  7,362.5  4,439.3   519826.4  58.6  30,358.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                               93,528.3  281,850.0 53,842.0 22,922.2  452,142.6  53.8  243,229.1    54,049.1    57Y378.5
Taxes                                          25,507.9  80,090.8  6,615.3  1,825.4  114,039.5   0.0           0.0            -    14,472.0
Foreign Exchange                               50,972.8  163,532.0 16,858.9 11,865.4  243,229.1   0.0          0.0            -    30,866.6
December 15, 1983  15:58
PH 
H "



BURHA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Project Component bu Time
(KYATS '000)
Base Costs                       Total
84/85     85/86     86/87    87/88      KYATS    (US$ '000)
A. TEAK SAUMILL REHABILITATION AT AHLONE                    60,201.7   11,037.1         -        -   71,238.8    9,040.5
B. TEAK SAWMILL RECONSTRUCTION AT DALLAH                       100.0  101.442.3 19,841,4         -  121,383.8   15,404.0
C. PANEL PRODUCTS MILL AT MONYVA                             9.292.9  111,956.6 18,746.5  6,600.0  146,596.1   18,603.6
D. HOBILE NARDWOOD MILLS IW NORTH PEOU                             -    3,679.6         -  3,679.6    7.359.2       933.9
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                        266.0       465.0   689,0    689.0    2,109.0        267.6
F. TRAINING                                                        -        54.0  1,663.0    514.6    2,231.6       283.2
S. STRENGTHENING ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT AND CONSTRUCTION   12.695.7    4,506.5          -        -   179202.2    2,183.0
H. INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL                                     -       678.0  1.798.0  6.399.0    8,875.0    1,126.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          82,556.3  233,819,1 42,738.0 17,882.2  376,995.6   47,842.1
Phusical Contingencies                                      4r992.7   13.985.5  3.741.6    600.7   23,320.6   2,959.5
Price Contingencies                                         5,979.3  34,045.4  7.362.5  4,439.3   51Y826.4   6,577.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           939528.3  281,850.0 53.842.0 22,922.2  452,142.6   57.378.5
Taxes                                                      25,507.9  80,090.8  6,615.3  1,825.4  114.039.5   14,472.0
Foreign Exchange                                           50,972.8  163,532.0 16,858.9 11.865.4  243.229,1   30,866.6
Decenber 159 1983  15:59
I-' t'



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Sumaars Account bv Project Cosponent
(KYATS '000)
MOBILE                       STRENGTHENING                             Phvsical
TEAK SAWMILL      TEAK SAWMILL                     HARDWOOD                       ADMINISTRATIVE INCREMENlAL              Continaencies
REHABILITATION AT RECONSTRUCTION AT PANEL PRODUCTS  MILLS IN  TECHNICAL              SUPPORT AND      WORKING               -------------
AHLONE            DALLAH       KILL AT MONYWA NORTH PEGU ASSISTANCE TRAINING  CONSTRUCTION    CAPITAL         Total     Z    Asount
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                         11Y486.0           35Y511.3       419664.5   1,063.2            -        -         8,565.6            -   98,290.6 10.0  9,829.1
B. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                              58.703.3           83s736.7       981331.6   6,196.0            -        -         8v636.6            -  255,604.2  5.0 12,780.2
C. INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY              1,049.5            29135.8        6,600.0       100.0          -        -               -            -    9t885.3  5.0    494.3
D. OTHERS                                                                        -              -           -    2.109.0  2,231.6               -     8,875.0   13,215.6  1.6    217.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                    71,238.8          121,383.8      146i596.1   7,359.2   2,109.0  29231.6           17.202.2      8,875,0  376,995.6  6.2 23,320.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       71,238.8          121P383.8      146,596.1   7,359.2   2.109.0  2,231.6           17,202.2    8,875.0  376,995.6  6.2 23,320.6
Phusical Contingencies                                   4,136.2            7,844.8        9,413.0       421.1      105.4    111.6         1,288.4            -   23,320.6  0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                      5,912.0           18,328.0       22,340.2   1604.8        463.8   549.8          1,257.0      19370.7  51,826.4  5.6  2,915.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        81.287.1          147,556.6      178,349.3   9,385.1    2P678.2  2,893.0          19,747.6    10,245.7  452,142.6  5.8 26p235.9
Taxes                                                   23,175.6           39,302.3       45,451.6    2P682.5           -        -         3,427.6            -  114,039.5  5.3  6,034.9
Foreisn Exchange                                        47,122.1           80,155.5       99,104.3    5,453.7    2,678.2  2,893.0          59822.2            -  243,229.1  5.3 12,839.6
December 15, 1983 15:59
(D >X



-39-
ANNEX 3
Table 1
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Disbursement Projections
Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year/Ouarter                  Ouarterly         Cumulative
(US$ M)           (US$ M)
1984/3
/4
1985/1
/2
/3
/4
1986/1                                0.5               0.5
/2                               1.5                2.0
/3                               2.0                4.0
/4                               0.1                4.1
1987/1                                9.0              13.1
/2                               4.0               17.1
/3                               0.5               18.2
/4                               0.5               18.7
1988/1                                3.0              21.7
/2                               1.0               22.7
/3                               0.5               23.2
/4                               0.5               23.7
1989/1                                0.3              24.0
/2                               0.3               24.3
/3                               0.2               24.5
/4                               0.2               24.7
1990/1                               0.1               24.8
/2                               0.1               24.9
/3                               0.1               25.0



BUR-1A
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Category            Description                            Rate                            Amount
(US$ '000)
I            IMachinery, Equipment            100% of foreign expenditure
and Vehicles                    on direct imports or 100%
ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods                       20,700
2            Construction Material            100% of foreign expenditure
on direct imports or 100%
ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods                         3,300
3            Technical Assistance             100% of foreign
and Training                    expenditures
Unallocated 1/                                                             1,000
25,000
1/ Based on physical contingencies.
(D3 
t'l m



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES 11 PROJECT
Timber Corporation - Organization Chart
Timber Corporatiors
Management Committee
Managing Director
Office of                                                                            Project
Monaging                                                                              Liaison
Director                                                                             Office
Manager                                                                         D General Manager
Extraction                &APlannistratioWood Industries I                          Marketing/Milling               Egineering                     Accounts
Depurtment   Department      Project Unit                 Department                    Depariment                    Department
General Manager              General Manager                     PD                     General Maniager                 G M.D.G.M                       DGM
Project Unit                Administration               Industries II                   Export                     Headquarters                  Administraition
PLD Manager  p L)                      DGM                         Manager-6                    Manager-6
East Pegu                                                Equipment                    Teak Sowmills |                   Eis
_    Yoma                _       Planning                  ImProveent_                    Plywood Mills                     B  orseo                   Extraction
P.D                       Manager                        P.D.                         DGM.                         Manager                       Manager
Sag(iing                        Resecirch &                                        |       Planning &            |         Stcltic                      Mlilling &
Project Unit                     Training                                                Administration                  Worksho,op                   Marketing
l   P.D.  l          l    Manager    l                                          |     D G M       l          | Deputy Manager                    Manager
2   Faresty 11    l                                              ]      ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Milling &      Division      Division/
(ADB) PU                                                                          |      Sales                          State                         State
P D      l                                                                            D.G.M.      j             Dy. Manager-38               Dy Manager-37
states/
|  Divisions
Manager     j
World Bank-25042
Cez
'-1 P
PI I 2



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES 11 PROJECT
Project Unit - Organization Chart
Wood Industries 11 |
Project Unit
Project Director
Technical
Assistonc                                                                     Liaison
Engineer          Ma~~~~~nager                                                                OfMaagrfiMnaer               Mage
ConsultantsOtie
Civil Works                      pquipment Instolletion
Supervision                           & Operation
DyU PID                               Dy P D
Intllto -            p       Eupetr                       HQ.        I    I                                 Inte rnal 
Operation                &Prourmntn              (Administration)             Finonce                     Audit
Asstn PeDM                Asstg PD                 Manager                   Manager                   Manager
I                     I   II
SawH l                        SaNom4ill                Sawmilling                                            Material                   Otfice 
Engineer                 Manager                  D Manager                                           A Manager               LD Manager
S awm( 14             j         o 1      l              Produt I                                           Eqouipment   |            Inspection
No. 14               N 14                       Mil                                             Prcrmn                      Tea        I
Engineer            |    Manager              | D Manager   || A. Manager                                                        D Manager |
Panel  Panel~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adBak204                                                                    
|   Products                  Products                  Supplies &    |                                    Manpower                   Inspection
Mill              |      Mill                     Spare Parts                                        Procurement                 Team 2 
Engineer              |    Manager                   D. Manager   || A. Manager   |                                           | D Manager |
|  Hardwood                   Hardwood                                                                      Monitoring
Sawmills                  Sawmnills                                                              | & Reporting 
Engineer                    Manager                                                                | D. Manager |
Acdministration  |                                                                                           Cost     7
Building                                                                                              Accounting
Engineer    |                                                                                         D. Manager 
Mcaterial    |C  
Procurement  |                                                                                                                                                  mtI
Mange                                                                                                                            World Bank -25043           1



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES 11 PROJECT
Marketing and Milling Department
Organization Chart
| Marketing & Milling Department l
General Manager
Export        ll               Saw Mills, Ply Mills   ||              Planning &                          Hardwood Milling l
& F.l.D.                        Administration                        & Distribution
Deputy General Manager              Deputy General Manager              Deputy General Manager               Deputy General Manager
Export 1
(Europe,              Round Log                              Took
America,                Sales-1                             SawmillsI
Australia)               (Dry)
Manager                Manager                            Manager- 15                           Manager                              Manager
Export 2              Round Log                                                                           l|Hardwood|
(Aia             Sales-2                      _        F.l.D.                             Planning   |l                         Milling   l
(Asla)          ~~~~(Green)                                                          l                                    |    & Sales 
Manaiger               Manoger                             Manager                              Manager                            Manager-14
l      l         | ~~~~Round Log|
Shipping               Sales-3 
I      1         } ~~~~(Hardtwood)|
|Manager                  Manager|
Coordination            Round Log
Depots
Manager                Manager
New Product
Sales &                Mre
Promotion               Research
|Manager  |                aoer|
M a n a g er            M a n a g er                                                                                            W orld  B a n k -2 5 0 4 4
=i1I
r1t



_44_                                                                   ANNEX 4
Chart 4
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1983/84          1984/85               1985/86                1986/87               1987/88
3    4     1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
11 77 TT    I I II 1                                                 T1  I        11      T4 11 F7T
TEAK SAW MiLL 4
Detailed Drawings               mm
Mobilization                          M
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Arrival
installation
TEAK SAW MILL 14
Detoiled Drawings               W
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tenderng
Equipment Arrival
Installation
PANEL PRODUCTS MILL
Detailed Drawings
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Arrival
Installation                                                                                    |_
HARDWOOD MILLS
Detailed Drawiings
Mobilization
Civil Works Construction
Equipment Tendering
Equipment Arrival
Installation
OTHER CML WORKS
Detailed Drawings
Mobilization
Construction
OTHER EQUIPMENT
Tenderng
Arrival                                   _|
OTHER ACTIMTIES
Technical Assistance
Training
t      Rainy Season                                                                  Word Bank-25045



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Income Statement - Timber Corporation
(Millions of 1983 Kyats)
1      2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10
SALES                               1,309  1 38   1, 480  1,01  i ,637       64S  1 , 645  i, 645  1 , 545  1, 645
OTHER INCOME
TOTAL INCOME                        1, 309  1 388  1,480  1 rEO  1,637  1,645  1,G45  1,645  1,645  1,645
SALARIES AND WAGES                    175    176    176    i77        7       78     178 i78    178    178
M-.-CE AND REPAIR                      41      44      46      50     51      51      51      51      51      51
CQV,HER                               242    243    244    252    257    25E         259    259    259    259
*:3ST OF GOODS SCGD                   458    462    467    479    485    487    487          487    487    487
CiROSS PROFIT                         851    925  1,013  1,122  1,152  i,158  1 , :58   ,i58  1,158  1,158
OVERHEADS                              65      65      65      65     E6      66      66      66      66      &6
DEPRECIATION                           55      B6      69      77     76      73      71      69      67      65
,?QOFIT BEFORE TAX                    722    794    879    980  1  ,010  1,019  1,021  1,023  1,025  1,026                         W
C-. TAX                               131    439    f48    i6i    165    i66          i66    16E     186    *E 66
PROFIT BEFDRE CONITR                  525    569    661    741    769    779    784          789    792      795
EPEF                                  262    277    292    309    315    318    320    322    323    323
INTER- ST                              38      36     37      37      34      30      25      22 .8
CONTRSUTi3ON                           67      83    100    !i9    12S       129     132      .34    136    137
PROFIT AFTER CONTR                    157    193    232    277    294        302    307    312    31i        320
H t
H U@



12/21/83
BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT
PROJECT UNIT
1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9       10      15      20
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOCAL                       15,875  16,320  17,432  31,985  46,658  47,445  47,445  47,445  47,445  47,445  47,445  47,445
EXPORT                     125,760 185,760 192,672 213,404 234,460 241,696 241,696 241,696 241,696 241,696 241,696 241,696
______ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
lOTAL REVENUES            201,635 202,080 210,104 245,389 281,118 289,141 289,141 289,141 289,141 289,141 289,141 289,141
COST OF GOODS SOLD
RAW MATERIALS               51.759  51,875  51,515  55,118  59,300  60,493  60,493  60,493  60,493  60,493  60,493  60,493
MAINTENANCE                    698     715     883   1,984   2,564   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713   2,713
FUEL                           580     580     580      785     990     990      990     990     990      990     990      990
POWER                          418     423     451     897   1,342   1,342   1,342   1,342   1,342   1,342   1,342   1,342
LABOUR                       8,283   8,559   8,923  10,149  10,522  10,424  10,424  10,424  10,424  10,424  10,424  10,424
FACTORY OH                   1,176   1l,81   1,301   3,888   4,455   5,091   5,091   5,091   5,091   5,091   5,091   5,091
TOTAL COST OF GOODS        62,914  63,332  63,653  72,821  79,172  81,053  81,053  81,053  81,053  81,053  81,053  81,053
GROSS MARGIN               138,721 138,747 146,452 172,568 201,945 208,088 208,088 208,088 208,088 208,088 208,088 208,088
MARKTNG AND HO               2,646   2,651   2,716   3,002   3,348   3,511   3,511   3,511   3.511   3,511   3,511   3,511
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 136,075 136,096 143,736 169,566 198,597 204,577 204,577 204,577 204,577 204,577 204,577 204,577
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T 141,572 147,258 161,745 198,445 241,717 258,955 269,313 280,085 291,289 302,940 368,573 448,426
DEPRECIATION                 1,697   2,048   8,882  33,629  36,096  36,256  36,256  36,256  37,349  39,524  41,656  46,858
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  22,991  24,012  25,471  31,108  37,467  39,734  41,324  42,977  44,696  46,483  56,554  68,807
_______ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
NET INCOME                 116,884 121,199 127,392 133,708 168,154 182,964 191,733 200,853 209,245 216,933 270,363 332,761
LOAN INTEREST                        1,381   7,897  15,828  19,451  18,630  16,967  15,104  13,221  11,339   1,925          43
EPEF                       54,8tO  56,444  57,218  59,080  68,276  75,241  79,977  85,155  89,912  94,252 123,699 153,530
CONTR                       19,175  19,785  20,344  21,447  25,234  27,861  29,571  31,305  32,954  34,517  44,520  54,969
RET EARNINGS                42,899  43,589  41,934  37,352  55,193  61,232  65,218  69,288  73,157  76,825 100-l 19 124,220
RATIOS(PERCENT)
_______________
GROSS PROFIT tVS REVENUES       69      69      70       70      72      72       72      72      72       72      72      273
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV        67      67      S8      69       71      71      71       71      71       71      71      269
RET EARN VS REVENUES            20      20      18       13      16      17       17      18      18       18      19       70
H t'
U'X



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Income Statement - Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation at Ahlone
1       Z        3       4        5        6        7       6        9       10       i15      20
SALE5 tJOLUtE   ~ ~ ---- -----  ------  ------  ------  ------  -------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------
SALES VOLUME
LOCAL(TONS)                   3,870   3,870   3,960   4,140   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320
EXPORT(TONS)                 15,480  15,480  15,840  16,560  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280
FIREWOOD(TONS)               il,430  11.43o  12,150  12,600  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
RL LVE NU E
LOCAL                         6,96S   6,966   7,128   7,452   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776
EXPORT                       92,880  92,880  99,792 106,812 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048
FIREWOOD                        972      972   1,033   1,071   1,090   1,090  1I090   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090
TOTAL REYENUES              100,818 100,818 107,953 i15,335 122,914 122,914 122,914 122,914 l22,914 122,914 122,914 122,914
COST OF GOODS SOLD
iEAK LOGS                    25,880  25,880  25,878  25,876  25,871  25,871  25,671  25,871  25,871  25,871  25,871  25,871
MAINTENANCE                     332      332     466      623      753      753     753      753      753      753      753      753
FUEL                            244      244     244      244      244     244      244      244      244      244      244      244
POWER                           295      295     317      356      391     391      391      391      391      391      391     391
LABOUR                        3,877   3,877   3,862   3,B22   3,799   3,799   3,799   3,799   3,799   3,799   3,799   3,799
FACTORY OH                      588      588     699      847      933   1,098   1.09098 108   1,098   1,098   1098   1,098
TOTAL COST OF GOODS          31,216  31,216  31,466  31,768  31,991  32,156  32,156  32,156  32,156  32,156  32,156  32,156
__ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  -- - - - - - _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -
GROSS MARGIN                 69,602  69,602  76,487  83,567  90,923  90,758  90,756  90,758  90,758  90,758  90,758  90,758
MIARKTNG AND HO               1,366   1,366   1,421   1,548   1,613   1,613   1,613   1,613   1,613   1,613   1,613   1,613
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  68,236  68,236  75,066  82,019  89,310  89,145  89,145  89,145  89,145  89,145  89.145  89,145
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  70,993  73,832  84,471  95,987 108,701 112,841 117,354 122,048 126,930 132,008 160,607 195,403
DEPRECIATION                    267      267   6,793   7,567   7,567   7,567   7,567   7,567   7,567   8,479   8,764  10,512
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  11,49S  11,956  12,723  13,833  15,012  15,613  16,237  16,887  17,562  18,264  22,222  27,036
NET INCOME                   59,230  61,610  64,955  74,587  86,122  89,661  93,550  97,595 101,e801 105,264 129,622 157,856
LOAN INTEREST                         1i178   3,055   3,874   4,000   3,641   3,277   2,913   2,549   2,185             364
EPEF                         27,332  27,e42  28,124  32,337  37,887  39,714  41,724  43,807  45,966  47,702  60,038  73,349
CONTR                         9,569   9,777  10,133  11,513  13,271  13,892  14,565  15,263  15,98G  16,613  20,766  25,352
RET EARNINGS                 22,329  22,813  23,643  26,863  30,965  32,414  33,985  35,613  37,301  38,764  48,454  59,154
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT YS REVENUES         69       69      71       7Z       74       74      74       74       7474   a
PROFIT BEFORE DIT YS REV         68       68      70       71       73       73      73       73       73       73       73       73   m M
NET EARN VS REVENUES             21       21       19      20       21       21      21       21       21       21       22



12/20/83
SURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT
TEAK SAWMILL NO 14
1       2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9       10       15       20
SALES VOLUME
LOCAL(TONS)                   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,960   4,140   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320   4,320
EXPORT(TONS)                 15,480  15,480  15,480  15,840  16,5G0  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280  17,280
FIREWOOD(TONS)               11,430  11,430  11,430  12,150  12,600  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825  12,825
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOCAL                         G,lS6   6,966   6,966   7,128   7,452   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776   7,776
EXPORT                       92,880  92,880  92,880  99,792 106,812 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048 114,048
FIREWOOD                        972      972      972   1,033   1,071   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090   1,090
TOTAL REVENUES              100,818 100,818 100,818 107,953 115,335 122,914 122,914 122,914 122,914 122,914 122,914 122,914
COST OF GOODS SOLD
__________________
TEAK LOGS                    25,880  25,880  25,290  24,751  24,793  25,871  25,871  25,871  25,871  25,871  25,871  25,871
MAINTENANCE                     332      332      332      466      623     755      755      755      755      755      755      755
FUEL                            255      255      255      255      255     255      255      255      255      255      255      255
POWER                            110     115      121      127      127      127     127      127      127      127      127      127
LABOUR                        3,877   3,877   3,877   3,832   3,741   3,606   3,606   3,606   3,606   3,606   3,606   3,606
FACTORY OH                      588      588      588      911   1,331   1,797   1,797   1,797   1,797   1,797   1,797   1,797
IOTAL COST OF GOODS          31,042  31,047  30,463  30,342  30,870  32,411  32,411  32,411  32,411  32,411  32,411  32,411
GROSS MARGIN                 69,776  69,771  70,355  77,611  84,465  90,503  90,503  90,503  90,503  90,503  90,503  90,503
MARKTNG AND HO                1,280   1,280   1,280   1,332   1,521   1,679   1,679   1,679   1,679   1,678   1,679   1,678
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  68,498  68,491  69,075  76,279  82,944  88,824  88,824  88,824  88,824  88,824  88,824  88,824
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  71,263  74,108  77,729  89,270 100,953 112,434 116,32 121,609 126,473 131,532 160,029 194,700
DEPRECIATION                    272      272      272  11,301  12,568  12,568  12,568  12,568  12,568  13,480  14,430  17,237
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  11,496  11,956  12,434  13,232  14,387  15,613  16,237  16,887  17,562  18,264  22,222  27,036
NET INCOME                   59,495  61,881  65,024  64,737  73,898  84,254  88,127  92,154  96,343  99,788 123,378 150,427
LOAN INTEREST                                   1,993   5,181   6,584   6,185   5,576   4,957   4,338   3,718            621        2
EPEF                         27,478  28,580  29,094  26,698  30,388  35,468  37,591  39,792  42,069  43,924  56,475  69,263
CONTR                         9,605   9,990  10,181   9,857  11,108  12,780  13,488  14,222  14,981  15,644  19,885  24,349
RET EARNINGS                 22,412  23,310  23,756  23,001  25,918  29,821  31,471  33,184  34,955  36,502  46,397  56,814
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES          69      69       70       72       73       74       74      74       74       74       74       74
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV          68      68       69       71       72       72      72       72       72       72       72       72
RET EARN VS REVENUES              21      21       21       18       18       19       19      20       20       20       21       21
ro 



12/20/83
BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT
PANEL PRODUCTS MILL AT MONYWA
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8        9      10       15       20
SfiEES ~ ~    ~     ----  --LUE----- ---- ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
SALES V_OLUME
TEAK PLYWOOD (OOOSOFT)                                 2,400   4,800   4,800   4-800   4,600   4,800   4,800   4,800   4,800
TEAK VENEER (OOOSOFT)                                  6,800  13,600  13,600  13,600  13,600  13,600  13,600  13.600  13,600
HARDWOOD PLYWOOD(OOOSGFT)                              3,200   6,400   6,400   6,400   6,400   6,400   6,400   6,400   6,400
BLOCKBOARD (OOOSOFT)                                     800   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600  1600
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REYENUE
TEAK PLYWOOD                                           4,951   9,902   9r902   9,902   9.902   9,902   9,902   9,902   9,902
TEAK VENEER                                            6,800  13,600  13,600  13,600  13.600  13,600  13,600  13,600  13,600
HARDWOOD PLYWOOD                                       5,002  10,003  10,003  10,003  10,003  10,003  10,003  10,003  10,003
BLOCKBOARD                                             3,125   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250   6,250
TOTAL REVENUES                                        19,878  39,756  39,756  39,756  39,756  39,756  39,756  39,756  39,756
COST OF GOODS SOLD
TEAK LOGS                                                321     642      G42     642      642     642      642      642      642
HARDWOOD LOGS                                          1,770   3,540   3,540   3,540   3,540   3-540   3,540   3,540   3,540
SAWNWOOD                                                 562   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125   1,125
OTHER MATERIAL                                         1,260   2,520   2,520   2,520   2,520   2,520   2,520   2,520   2,520
MAINTENANCE                                              776   1,035   1,035   1,035   1,035   1,035   1,035   1.035   1,035
FUEL                                                     205     410      410     410      410      410     410      410      410
POWER                                                    401     811      811     811      811      811     811      811      811
LABOUR                                                 1,236   1,648   1,648   1,648   1,648   1,648   1,648   1,648   1.648
FACTORY OH                                             2,106   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158
_______ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------               ^D
TOTAL COST OF GOODS                                    8,637  13,888  13,888  13,888  13,888  13,888  13,888  13,888  13,888
GROSS MARGIN                                          11,241  25,867  25,867  25,867  25,867  25,867  25,867  25,867  25,867
MARKTNG AND HO                                            97     179      179      179     179      179     179      179      179
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T                             11,144  25,688  25,688  25,688  25,688  25,688  25,688  25,688  25.688
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T                             13,042  31,266  32,516  33,817  35,170  36,577  38,040  46,281  56,308
DEPRECIATION                                          12,828  13,682  13,842  13,842  13,842  14,935  15,287  16,836  17.366
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA                              3.497   7,275   7,566   7,868   8,183   8,510   8,851  10,768  13,101
NET INCOME                                            -3,284  10,309  11,109  12,107  13,145  13,132  13,902  18,676  25,841
LOAN INTEREST                            62   2,383   5,978   7,755   7,570   6,934   6.178   5,409   4,640          795       26
EPEF                                                                              575   1,419   1.688   2,383   6,293   9,842
CONTR                                                            766   1,062   1,379   1,664   1.811   2,064   3,476   4,792
RET EARNINGS                            -62  -2,383  -9,262   1,788   2,477   3,218   3,883   4,225   4,816   8,112  11,181
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES                                  57      65       65      65       65       65      65       65       65
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV                                  56      65       65      65       S5       65      65       65       65
RET EARN VS REVENUES                                     -40        4       5        6       7        7        8      11       13



12/20/83
BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT
HARDWOOD MILLS
1       2        3        4       5        G        7       8        9       10       15       20
SALES VOLUME
ROUGH LOCAL(TONS)                        581   1,744  2906   4,069   4,650   4,650   4,650   4,650   4,650   4,650   4,650
FINISHED LOCAL(TONS)
FIREWOOD(TONS)
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
RUUGH LOCAL                              444   1,334  2223   3,113   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557
FINISHED LOCAL
FIREWOOD
TOTAL REVENUES                           444   1,334   2 223   3*113   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557   3,557
COST OF GOODS SOLD
HARDWOOD LOGS                            116      347     578      809      925      925     925      925      925      925      925
MAINTENANCE                               17       51      85      119      136      136     136      136      136      136      136
FUEL
POWER
LABOUR                                    38      113     188      263      300      300     300      300      300      300      300
FACTORY OH                                 5       14      24       33       38      38       38       38       38       38       38
TOTAL COST OF GOODS                      175     525      874   1,224   1,399   1,399   1,399   1,399   1,399   1,399   1,399
GROSS MARGIN                             270      809   1,349   1 ,88   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2,158   2 158              c
MARKTNG AND HO                             5       15      25       35       40       40      40       40       40       40       40
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T                265     794   1,324   1,853   2,118   2,118   2,118   2,118   2,118   2,118   2 118
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T                286     894   1,549   2,256   2,681  2788   2,900   3,016   3,136   3,816   4,643
DEPRECIATION                             103      411     527      873      873     873      873      873      873      220      337
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA                101      315     545      794      943     981   1 020   1,061   1,104   1,343   1,634
NET INCOME                                83      168     477      589      865     934   1,006   1,082   1,160   2,253   2,672
LOAN INTEREST                                      69     174      292      380     384      346      304    22         51        9
EPEF                                      21               45                60      88      137      190      7'!I!    893   1,075
CONTR                                     18       30      77       89      127      139     157      176      I ,16    393      476
RET EARNINGS                              43       6S     180      208      297     324      366      412      458      916   1,111
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVIENUES                 61       B1      61       61       61      61       61       61       61       61       61
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV                  60      60       60       60       60      60       60       60       S0       60       60
RET EARN VS REVENUES                       9        5       7        5        7        7       8        8        9       14       14
rrz
Htix



12/20/B3
BURMA- WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT
OTHER
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8        9       10      15       20
OPERATING COST
__________________
MAINTENANCE                     34       34      34       34      34       34      34       34       34      34       34       34
FUEL                            81       81      81       81      SI       at      81       el       8i       e1      81       81
POWER                           13       13      13       13      13       13       13      13       13       13      13       13
LABOUR                         529      767   1,071   1,071   1,071   1,071   1,071   1.071   1,071   1,071   1.071   1,071
FACTORY OH
TOTAL DPERATING COST           657      895   1.199   1,199   1,199   1,199   1-199   1,1199   1199   1,199   1-199   1,199
GROSS MARGIN                  -657    -895  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1r199
M!ARKTN6 AND 4-S
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T    -657    -895  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1-199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199  -1,199
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T    -684    -968  -1,349  -1,403  -1,459  -1,51B  -1,578  -1,642  -1,707  -1,775  -2,160  -2,628
DEPRECIATION                 1,158   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406   1,406
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA
NET INCOME                  -1,B42  -2,374  -2,755  -2,809  -2,865  -2,924  -2,984  -3,048  -3,113  -3,181  -3,566  -4,034
LOAN INTEREST                           141     396      621     820      853     796      710      622     534       94        6
EPEF
CONTR
RET EARNINGS                -1,842  -2,516  -3,151  -3,430  -3,686  -3,777  -3,780  -3,758  -3,735  -3,716  -.i,BB0  -4,040
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REV
RET EARN VS REVENUES
cri
tD X
s- Ul



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Balance Sheet - Timber Corporation
(Millions of 1983 Kyats)
1      2       3      4       5      S       7       8       9     .0
ASSETS
CASH                                 147    162    179    199    208    217    226    235    244    254
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                 900    990  1,091  1,203  1,255  ',306  1,358  1,413  1,469  1,528
INVENTORIES                       1,299  1,429  1,572  1,732  1,803  1,876  1,951  2,029  2,110  2,194
70TAL CIURRENT ASSETS             2-346  2,582  2,842  3,134  3,26S  3,399  3,534  3,676  3,823  3,976
GROSS ASSETS                      1,741  1,838  1,927  1,949  1,971  1,993  2,015  2,037  2,059  2,081
LESS ACCM DEPRECIATION              615    747    887  1,049  1,209  ',3S5  1,516  1,664  1,810  1,954
NET FIXED ASSETS                  1,145  1,206  1,372  1,322  1-197  1,065    937    813    692    571
O;HER ASSETS CUM                     so             iOs    219    438    666    895  1,127  1,383  1,639
lOTAL ASSETS                      3,551  3,786  4,323  4,674  4,9'01  5,129  5,367  5,616  5,897  6-187 -
I-tABILITIES AND OWNERS' EOUITY
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                  1.092  1,202  1,322  1,455  1,513  1,574  1,637  1,702  1,771  1,841
CiJRR PAYMENT LONG T DEBT            75      92      92    113    114    114    114        93      93     93
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         l,i67  1,294  1,414  1,568  1,627  1,688  1,751  1,795  1,663  1,934
LnNG TERM DEBT                      732    674    705    659    559    447    334    241    148           56
CAPITAL                             397    397    397    397    397    397    397    397    397    397
RETAINED EARNINGS                 1,255  1,421  1,625  1,868  2,135  2,415  2,703  3,001  3,306  3,617
TOTAL E3UITY                      1.652  1,818  2,204  2-447  2,715  ,994  3,283  3,560  3,885  4,197
__ _ _  - - - - -                            - - - - - _ _ _ _  - - - - -  - - - - -
TOTAL                             3,551  3,786  4,323  4,674  4,901  5,123  5,367  5,616  5,897  6,187
rD'1
0o LI



12/20/63
BURMA-WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
PROJECT UNIT
(MILLIONS OF CURRENT KYATS)
1       2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9       10       15       20
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                    8        8        9       11      13       14       14       15       16       16       20       24
INVENTORIES                            15       16       17      20       22       24       25       26       27       28       34       41
ACCTS RECEIVABLES                      17       18       20      24       28       30       32       33       34       36       43       53
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   41       43       45      55       64       68       71       74       77       80       97      118
FIXED ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                     26      123      335     415      433      437      438      438      438      438      438      438
LESS ACCM DEPRECIATION                  4        6       15      49       85      121      158      194      231      271      475      703
NET FIXED ASSETS                       21      117     320      366      348      316      280      244      206      167      -38    -265
OTHER ASSETS CUM                       24        3               49      112      183      260      341      427      518   1,049   1,829
TOTAL ASSETS                           86      163      365     469      523      567      611      658      710      765   1,108   1,682
LIABILITIES
CURRENT PORTION LT DEBT                                          22       22       22       22       22       22       22
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES               5        5        5        6       7        7        8        8        8        8       10       13
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES               5        5        5      28       29       29       30       30       30       31       10       13
LONG TERM DEBT                                  32      153      197     195      177      156      133      111       89        1        1
EQUIfY
PAID IN CAPITAL                        15       15       55      55       55       55       55       55       55       55       55       55
RET EARNINGS CUMULATIVE                67      110      152      190     245      306      371      440      514      590   1,043   1.614
TOTAL EQUITY                           82      125     207      244      299      361      426      495      568      645   1,098   1,669
LIABILITIES&NET-WaRTU  -- -            E6_     163      3fi5-    46,8   _53  _ 567_    611          658      710      765   1,108   1,682
LT DEBT VS EQUITY                             .26      .74      .81     .65      .49      .37      .27      .20      .14               .01
CURRENT RATIO                       8.32    8.31    8.53    1.96    2.20    2.32    2.38    2.45    2.53    2.60    9.39   40.01
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                      89.24   17.26   10.57    4.96    5.38    5.83    6.36    6.97    7.66   12.96   89344
'03 >
cr z
tDX



12/20/83
BURMA-WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
PROJECT UNIT
(MILLIONS OF CURRENT KYATS)
1       2        3        4        5        6       7        8        9        10
SOURCES
NET INCOME                            117      121      127      134     162      183      192      201      209      217
DEPRECIATION                            2        2        9       34      36       36       36       36       37       40
DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
IDA LOAN                                        32      121      66       19        5
EVUITY INVESTMENT                                        40
TOTAL SOURCES                         119      156      297     233      224      224      228      237      247      256
APPLICATIONS
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                      2        3       8        8        4        2        3        3        3
NEW FIXED ASSETS                       20       98      212      80       18        4
OTHER ASSETS                           24      -21       -3       49      63       72       77       81       86       91
DEBT REPAY                                                                22       22       22       22       22       22
LOAN INTEREST                                    1        8       16       19      19       17       15       13       11
EPEF                                   55       56       57       59      68       75       80       85       90       94
CONTRIBUTION TO STATE                  19       20       20       21      25       28       30       31       33       35
TorAL 1"   I CA'rIONS                 119      156     297      233      224      224      228      237      247      256
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                        89.24   17.26   10.57    4.96    5.38    5.83    6.36    6.97    7.S6
t,1
rD' ><
O0



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation at Ahlone
Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                               Without Project
Operating   Capital    Net                  Operating   Capital     Net
Year   Revenue      Costs      Costs      Flow     Revenue      Costs      Costs       Flow   Incremental
1     100.8       68.9        4.2       26.C       i00.8       69.9        4.0       26.9         -.3
100.8      69. 4      68.0       -36.5      100.8       69.9        3.3       27.6       -64.2
3     108.0       70. 2        3.4       34.3      100.8       69.9        2.3       28.5         5.8
4     115.3       74.1          .9       40.3      100.8       69.9          .0      30.9         9.4
5     122.9       78.4         1.        43.6      100.8       70.0          .0      30.9        12.7
6     122.9       78.7          .0       44.2      100.8       69.8        4.0       27.0        17.2
7     122. 9      78.9          .0       44.0      100.8       69.7        4.0       27.1        16.9
8     122.9       79.2          .0       43.8      100.8       69.7          .0      31.1        12.7
9     122.9       79.4          .0      43.5       100.8       69.8          .0      31.1        12.5
10     122.9       79.3        6.0       35.6       100.8       69.7        2.3       28.8         6.9
11     122.9       79.4        2.3       41.1       100.8       69.6        4.0       27.3        13.9
12     122.9       79.6         .0       43.3       100.8       69.5        4.0       27.4        15.9
13     122.9       79.8          .0      43.1       100.8       69.5         .0       31.3        11.8
14     122.9       80.0          .0       42.9      100.8       69.5         .0       31.3        11.6
15     122.9       80.1          .0      42.8       100.8       69.5         .0       31.3        11.5
16     122.9       80.0        8.0       34.9       100.8       69.4        4.0       27.4         7.5
17     122.9       80.1          .0       42.8      100.8       69.3        4.0       27.6        15.3
18     122.9       80.2         .0       42.7       100.8       69.2        2.3       29.2        13.5
19     122.9       80.2        2.3       40.4       100.8       69.3         .0       31.G         8.8
20     122.9       80.2      -24.6        67.3      100.8       69.3       -9.5        41.1       26.2
PV_-    969.1      634.4       71.4       263.4      843.4      583.7       16.9      242.8        20.5
Financial Rate of Return = 17.4%
H .n



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction at Dallah
Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                  Without Project
Operating   Capital    Net                 Operating   Capital     Net
Year   Revenue      Costs      Costs     Flow      Revenue     Costs      Costs       Flow   Incremental
1     100.8       69.8         .1       30.9      100.8       69.8        6.4       24.6        6.3
2     100.8       69.6       19.5       11.6      100.8       69.8        6.4       24.6      -13.1
3     100. 8      68.6      113.0      -80.8      100.8       69.6        4.8       26.2    -107.1
4     108.0       65.7         .8       41.4      100.8       69.8        2.4       28.6        12.8
5     115.3       69.1        1.        45.3      100.8       69.8        2.4       28.6        16.7
C     122.9       74.4        1.2       47.4      1o0.8       69.6        G.4       24.9        2.5
7     122.9       74.9         .0       48.0      100.8       69.3        6.4       25.1       22.9
8     122.9       75.4         .0       47.5      100.8       69.2        2.4       29.2        18.3
9     122.9       75.9         .0       47.0      100.8       69.2        2.4       29.2        17.8
10     122.9       76.0        8.0       38.9      100.8       G9.1        2.3       29.4         9.5
11     122.9       76.2        7.8       38.9      100.8       68.9        4.0       27.9        11.0
12     122.9       76.6         .0       46.3      100.8       68.8        4.0       28.0        18.3
13     122.9       77.0         .0       45.9      100.8       68.9         .0       32.0        13.9
14     122.9       77.4         .0       45.5      100.8       68.9         .0       31.9        13.6
15     122.9       77.8         .0       45.1      100.8       68.9         .0       31.9        13.3
16     122.9       77.7        8.0       37.2      100.8       68.8        4.0       28.1        9.2
17     122.9       77.9         .0       45.0      100.8       68.6        4.0       28.2        16.8
18     122.9       78.1         .0       44.8      1 00.8      68.6        2.3       29.9        14.9
19     122.9       77.8        7.8       37.2      100.8       68.6         .0       32.2         5. 0
20     122.9       78.0      -42.0       86.9      100.8       68.7      -15.2        47.3       39.6
Pv-     953.4      607.2      112.5      233.7      843.4      580.7       31.4      231.3         2.4
Financial Rate of Return = 12.6%



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Panel Products Mill
Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                 Without Project
Operating   Capital      Net                  Operating    Capital      Net
Year   Revenue       Costs       Costs      Flow      Revenue       Costs       Costs      Flow   Incremental
1         .0          .0       10.2      -10.2           .0          .0          .0         .0       -10.2
2         .0          .0       17.6       -17.8          .0          .0          .0          .0      -17.8
3         .0          .0      118.4    -116.4            .0          .0          .0          .0    -118.4
4       19.9        11.7        6.5         1.7          .0          .0          .0          .0         i.7
5       39.8       20.0        10.2         9.5          .0          .0          .0          .0        9.5
6       39.8       20.0           .0       19.7          .0          .0          .0          .0       19.7
7       39.8       20.5           .0       19.3          .0          .0          .0          .0       19.3
8       39.8       21.1           .0       18.7          .0          .0          .0          .0       18.7
9       39.8       21.2        10.1         8.4          .0          .0          .0          .0        8.4
10       39.8       21.7         3.1        15.0          .0          .0          .0          .0       15.0
11       39.8       22.2           .0       17.6          .0          .0          .0          .0       17.G
12       39.8       22.7           .0       17.1          .0          .0          .0          .0       17.1
13       38.8       23.2           .0       16.6          .0          .0          .0          .0       16.6
14       39.8       23.6           .0       16.2          .0          .0          .0          .0       16.2
15       39.8       23.5        10.1         6.1          .0          .0          .0          .0        6.1
16       39.8       23.9           .0       15.8          .0          .0          .0          .0       15.8
17       39.8       24.0         3.1        12.7          .0          .0          .0          .0       12.7
18       39.8       24.2           .0       15.6          .0          .0          .0          .0       15.6
19       39.8       24.4           .0       15.4          .0          .0          .0          .0       15.4
20       39.8        24.5      -47.7        62.9          .0          .0          .0          .0       62.9
Pv-      211.5       116.4      133.8       -38.7          .0          .0          .0          .0      -38.7
Financial Rate of Return = 7.2%
1.)



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Hardwood Mills
Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                Without Project
Operating   Capital      Net                   Operating    Capital      Net
Year   Revenue       Costs       Costs       Flow      Revenue      Costs       Costs       Flow    Incremental
1         .0          .0          .0          .0         .1          .0          .0          .0          .0
2         .4           3           7 .4  .7               .0          .0         .0          .0         -5
3        1.3          .8         3.5       -3.0           .0          .0         .0           .0       -3.0
4        2.2         1.4          .7          .1          .0          .0         .0           .0         .1
5        3.1         1.9        3.5        -2.3          .0          .0          .0          .0        -2.3
6        3.6         2.2          .1        1.2            0         .0          .0           .0        1.2
7        3.6         2.3          .0        1.3           .0         .0          .0          .0         1.3
8        3.6         2.3          .0         1.3          .0          .0         .0          .0         1.3
9        3.6         2.3          .0        1.2          .0          .0          .0          .0         1.2
10        3.6- -      2.3  -    -o.-          I  w2-        0          a 0         . 0         i 0    ----i--2
11        3.6         2.4          .2         1.0         .0          .0          .0           .0        1.0
12        3.G         2.4          .2         1.           .0          .0         .0           .0        1.
13        3.6         2.4          .2         1.           .0         .0          .0           .0        1.
14        3.6         2.6          .2          .8          .0          .0         .0          .0          e8
15        3.6         2.7          .0          .9          .0         .0          .0          .0           .9
16        3.6         2.7          .2          .7          .0          .0         .0           .0          .7
17        3.6         2.7                      .7          .0         .0          .0           .3          .7
18        3.6         2.7          .2          .7          .0          .0         .0           .0          .7
19        3.6         2.7          .2          .7          .0         .0          .0          .0           .7
20        3.6         2.7       -2.5         3.3           .0          .0          .0          .0        3.3
PY-       20.4        13.5         6.1          .7          .0          .0         .0           .0          .7
H I
Financial Rate of Return = 14.8%                                                                           0.
I-ntJ



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Project - Financial Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                   Without Project
Operating    Capital     Net                   Operating    Capital      Net
Year   Revenue       Costs       Costs       Flow      Revenue      Costs       Costs       Flow    Incremental
1     201.6       140.3        19.2        42.1       201.6       140.3        15.1        46.2        -4.1
z      202.1       140.3      130.1       -68.3       201.6       140.6        25.0        36.1    -104.4
3     210.1        139.8      240.6      -170.3       201.6       140.9         9.6        51.1    -221.4
4     245.4        152.8        10.5       82.1       201.6       140.9         3.7        57.0        25.0
5     281.1        169.3        17.1       94.7       201.6       140.9         2.4        58.3        36.4
6     289.1        175.3         2.8      111.0       201.6       140.5        10.4        50.7        60.3
7     289.1       176.6          1.5      111.0       201.6       140.1        10.4        51.1        59.9
8     289.1        178.1         1.5      109.5       201.6       140.1         2.4        59.1        50.4
9     289.1        179.1        11.6       98.5       201.6       140.0         2.4        59.2        39.3
10     289.1        179.6       20.5        89.1       201.6       139.9         4.7        57.1        32.0
11      289.1       180.4        11.8       96.9       201.G       139.6         8.0        54.1        42.8
12      289.1       181.6         1.7      105.9       201.6       139.3         8.0        54.4        51.5
13     289.1        182.7         1.7      104.7       201.6       139.3           .0       62.3        42.4
14     289. 1       184.0         1.7      103.5       201.6       139.4           .0       62.2        41.3
15     289.1        184.6        11.6       92.9       201.6       139.5           .0       62.2        30.8
16      289.1       184.8        17.6       86.7       201.6       139.2         8.0        54.5        32.2
17     289.1        185.1         4.7       99.3       201.G       138.9         8.0        54.8        44.4
18     289.1        165.6         1.7      101.9       201.6       138.7         4.7        58.2        43.6
19      289.1       185.5        11.8       91.8       201.6       138.8           .0       62.8        28.9
20      28 9. 1     188.0     -129.1       232.3       201.6       138.9       -30.7        93.4       138.9
PV-   2t154.4    1,373.9        358.8       421.6    1,686.8   1 172.8           68.9       445.1       -23.4
Financial Rate of Return = 10.8%
t.n



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Income Statement - Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation (Without Project)
1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8        9      10       15      20
__ _ _ _  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -
SALES VOLUME
____________
LOCAL(TONS)                  3,670   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870
EXPORT(TONS)                15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  1, 48C
FIREWOOD(TONS)              11,430  11,430  11.430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11-430  11,430
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOCAL                       6S966   6,966    .96SS  6S966   6,966  6S966  6S966   6,966  S696S   G,966   6,966   6,966
FXPORT                      92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880  92,880
FIREWOOD                       972      972     972      972     972      972     972      972     972      972      972     972
TOTAL REVENUES             100,818 100o,18 100,818 100,818 100.818 1i0o,818 100.818 100,818 100,818 100,818 100.818 100,818
COST OF GOODS SOLD
_ ________________
TEAK LOGS                   25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880
MAINTENANCE                    332      332     332      332     332      332     332      332     332      332      332     332
FUEL                           244      244     244      244     244      244     244      244     244      244      244     244
POWER                          295      295     295      295     295      295     295      295     295      295      295     295
LABOUR                       3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877
FACTORY OH                     588      588     588      588     588      588     588      588     588      588      588     588
TOTAL COST OF GOODS         31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216  31,216             a
GROSS MARGIN                69,602  69,602   9,602  69,602  69,602  69,602  69,602  69,602  69,602  69,602  69,O62  69,O6
MARKTNG AND HO               1,366   1.366   1,366   1,366   1,366   1,366   1,366   1,36S   1,366   1,366   1,366   1,366
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  68,236  68,236  68,236  68,236  68,236  68,236  B,236  68,236  G8,23S  68,236  68,236  68,236
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  70,993  73,832  76,786  79,857  83,051  86,373  89,828  93,421  97,158 101,045 122,936 149,571
DEPRECIATION                   267      267     267      267     267      628   1,)11   1,011   1.011   1,280   2,275   4,037
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  11,496  11,956  12,434  12,931  13,448  13,986  14,546  15,128  15,733  16,362  19,907  24,220
NET INCOME                  59,230  61,610  64,085  66,659  69,336  71,759  74,272  77,283  80,415  83,403 100,754 121,314
LOAN INTEREST
EPEF                        27,332  28,431  29,574  30,763  31,999  33,087  34,213  35,604  37,051  36,407  46,333  55,674
CONTR                        9.569   9,954  10,353  10,769  11,201  11,602  12,017  12,504  13,009  13,499  16,326  19,692
RET EARNINGS                22,329  23,225  24,157  25,127  26,136  27,071  28,041  29,175  30,355  31,497  38,095  45,949
RATIOS(PERCENT)                                                                                                                      a,
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES        69       69      69       69      69       69      69       69       69      69       69       69    P @
PROFIT BEFORE DIT VS REt.V      68       68      68       68      68       68      68       68      68       68       S8      68
RET EARN VS REVENUES            21       21      21       21      21       21      21       21       21      21       21       21



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Income Statement - Teak Sawmill Reconstruction (Without Project)
1       2        3        4        5       6        7        8        9       10       15       20
SALES VOLUME
____________
LOCAL(TONS)                   3,670   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   3,870   36870   3,870   3,870   3,670   3,870   3,B70
EgPORT(TONS)                 15,480  15,480  15,460  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480  15,480
FIREWOOD(TONS)               11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430  11,430
(THOUSANDS OF CONSTANT KYATS)
REVENUE
LOCAL                         6,966   6,966   6,966   6,966  6s,ss    s9s ,966966  6s966   6,s66  6S966   6,966   6,966
EXPORT                       92,880  92,880  92s,s8o  92,880  92,880  92sz,so  92880o  92880  92,880  92e0so  92,880  92,s80
FIREWOOD                        972      972      972      972      972     972      972      972      972      972      972      972
TOTAL REVENUES              100,818  100,818 100,818 ioo,818 100,818 100,818 100,818 1oo.e8e loo1e,B 100B818 100,818 100,818
COST OF GOODS SOLD
- ----------------
IEAK LOGS                    25,880  25,880  25,8e0  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,880  25,88o
MAINTENANCE                     332      332      332      332      332     332      332      332      332      332      332      332
FUEL                            295      255      255 2s5           255     255      255      255      255      255      255      255
PO4WER                          110      110      11o      1i(      110     110      110 il1 1         110      110      i1O      1O
;-AOUR                        3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,877   3,677
FACTORY OH                      588      588      5s8      588      588     58B      588      588      588      58e      588      588
TOTAL COST OF GOODS          31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042  31,042
GROSS MARGIN                 69,776  69,776  69,776  69,776  69,776  69,776  69,776  69,77G  69,776  69,776  69,776  69,776
MARKTNG AND HO                1,280   1 ,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280   1,280
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  68,49s6   8,496  G8,496  68,496  68,496  68,496  68,496  68,496  68,496  68,496  68,496  66,496
(THOUSANDS OF CURRENT KYATS)
INCOME BEF DEPR,INT AND T  71,263  74,114  77,078  80,151  83,368  86,702  90,171  93,777  97,529 101,430 123,405 150,141
DEPRECIATION                    272      272      272      272      272     854   1,470   1,718   1,981   2,250   3,245   5,007
COMMODITY AND SERVICES TA  11,496  11,956  12,434  12,931  13,448  13,986  14,546  15,128  15,733  i6,362  19,907  24,220
NET INCOME                   59,495  61,886  64,372   s,s958  69,647  71,863  74,155  76,932  79,815  82,818 100,252 120,914
LOAN INTEREST
EPEF                         27,478  28,583  29,732  30,928  32,171  33,144  34,149  35,411  36,721  38,085  46,057  55,453
CONTR                         91605   9,991  10,392  iO,809  11,243  11,6GI   12,002  12,456  12,928  13,420  16,259  19,638
RET EARNINGS                 22,412  23,312  24,248  25,221  26,234  27,103  28,004  29,064  30,166  31,313  37,937  45,823
RATIOS(PERCENT)
GROSS PROFIT VS REVENUES          69      69       69       69       69       6        69      69       69       69       69        69 
PROFIT BEFORE DIT ViS REV         68      68       68       68       68       6B       6B      68       6B       6s       68       68
RET EARN VS REVENUES              21      21       21       21       21       21      21       21       21       21        1        21 



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                 Without Project
Operating    Capital    Net                  Operating    Capital    Net
Year   Revenue    Costs       Costs      Flow      Revenue     Costs       Costs      Flow    Incremental
1     100.9       93.9        2.8        4.2      100.9        93.9        2.6        4.3        -.2
2     100.9       93.9       44.3      -37.4       100.9       93.9        1.9        5.0      -42.4
3     108.0       94.3        2.5        11.3      100.9       93.9        1.5        5.4         5.9
4     115 .4      94.7          .9       19.9      100.9       93.9         .0        6.9        12.9
5     123.0       95.0          .9      27.1       100.9       93.9         .0        6.9       20.2
6     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8       100.9       93.9        2.6        4.3       23.5
7     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8       100.9       93.9        2.G        4.3       23.5
8     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8       100.9       93.9         .0        6.9       20.9
9     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8       100.9       93.9         .0        6.9       20.9
10     123.0       95.1        5.2       22.G      100.9        93.9        1.5        5.4       17.2
11     123.0       95.1        1.5       26.3      100.9        93.9        2.G        4.3       22.0
12     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8      10(.9        93.9        2.6        4.3       23.5
13     123.0       95.1         .u       27.8      100.9        93.9         .0        6.9       20.9
14     123.0       95,1         .0       27.8      100.9        93.9         .0        6.9       20.9
15     123.0       95.1         .,       27.8      100.9        93.9         .0        G.9       20.9
16     123.0       95.1        5.2       22.6      100.9        93.9        2.6        4.3       18.3
17     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8       100.9       93.9        2.6        4.3       23.5
18     123.0       95.1          .0      27.8      100.9        93.9        1.5        5.4       22.5
19     123.0       95.1        1.5       26.3      100.9        93.9         .0        6.9       19.4
20     123.0       95.1      -16.3       44.2       100.9       93.9       -6.?       13.1       31.0
P'-     969.8      792.5       47.2       130.1      843.9      785.9       10.9       47.1        83.0
Economic Rate of Return = 36.6%
H i



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                               Without Project
Operating    Capital    Net                  Operating    Capital    Net
Year   Revenue    Costs       Costs      Flow      Revenue     Costs       Costs      Flow    Incremental
1     100.9       93.7          .1        7.1     100.9        93.7        4.1        3.1         4.0
2     100.9       93.7        12.4      -5.3       100.9       93.7        4.1        3.1        -8.4
3     100.9       91.7        72.2     -63.0       100.9       93.7        3.1        4.1       -67 .2
4     108.0       90.3          .8       16.9      100.9       93.7        1.6        5.6        11.3
5     115.4       91.2          .9      23.3       100.9       93.7        1.6        5.6        17.7
G     123.0       95.5         1.1       Z6.4      100.9       93.7        4.1        3.1        23.3
7     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7        4.1        3.1        24.4
8     123.0       95.5          .0       27.5      100.9       93.7        1.6         5.6       21.8
S     123.0       95.5          .0       27.5      o10.9       93.7        1.6        5.6        21.8
10     123.0       95.5        5.1       22.4       100.9       93.7        1.5        5.7        IG.7
11     123.0       95.5        5.0       22.5      1(0.9        93.7        2.5        4.7        17.8
12     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7        2.5        4.7        22.8
13     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7         .0        7.2        20.3
14     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7         .0        7.2        20.3
15     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7         .0        7.2        20.3
16     123.0       95.5        5.1        22.4      100.9       93.7        2.5        4.7        17.7
17     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7        2.5        4.7        22.8
18     123.0       95.5          .0      27.5       100.9       93.7        1.5        5.7        21.8
19     123.o       95.5         5.0      22.5       100.9       93.7         .0        7. 2       15.3
20     123.0       95.5      -27.1        54.6      100.9       93.7       -9.7        16.9       37.7
PFJ-    954.0      786.1        72.4       95.5      843.9      783.7       20.1        40.1       55.4
Economic Rate of Return = 26%                                                                        (Dw



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Panel Products Mill - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                   Without Project
Operating     Capital      Net                   Operating     Capital      Net
Year    Revenue     Costs        Costs       Flow       Revenue      Costs         Costs      Flow     Incremental
I          .0          .0        6.9        -6.9           .0          .0           .0          .0        -6.9
2          .0          .0       11.9       -11.9           .0          .0           .0          .0       -11.9
3          .0          .0       79.3       -79.3           .0          .0           .0          .0      -79.3
4       21.3        10.6         5.3          5.3          .0          .0           .0          .0         5.3
5       42.5        17.1         7.7         17.7          .0          .0           .0          .0        17.7
6       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0          .0           .0          .0        25.4
7       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0          .0           .0          .0        25.4
8       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0          .0           .0          .0        25.4
9       42.5        17.1         6.8         18.6          .0          .0           .0          .0        18.6
10       42.5        17.1         2.1        23.3           .0          .0           .0          .0        23.3
11       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0           .0          .0          .0        25.4
12       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0           .0          .0          .0        25.4
13       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0           .0          .0          .0        25.4
14       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0           .0          .0          .0        25.4
15       42.5        17.1         6.8         18.6          .0           .0          .0          .0        18.6
16       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0          .0           .0          .0        25.4
17       42.5        17.1         2.1        23.3           .0          .0           .0          .0        23.3
18       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0           .0          .0          .0        25.4
19       42.5        17.1           .0       25.4           .0           .0          .0          .0        25.4
20       42.5         17.1      -32.5         57.9           .0          .0          .0          .0        57.9
PV-      226.1         92.5        90.8        42.8           .0          .0          .0           .0       42.8
Economic Rate of Return = 19%                                                                                    tl



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Hardwood Mills - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                    Without Project
Operating     Capital      Net                    Operating     Capital      Net
Year    Revenue     Costs        Costs        Flow       Revenue      Costs         Costs      Flow      Incremental
1.         .0          .0          .0          .0           .0          .0           .0          .0           .0
2          .4          .3          .5         -.3           .0          .0           .0          .0          -.3
3        1.3          1.          2.3        --2.0          .0          .0           .0          .0        -2.0
4        2.2          1.6          .5           .1          .0          .0           .0           .0          .1
5        3.1          2.2         2.3        -1.5           .0          .0           .0           .0       -1.5
6        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0          .0           .0           .0          .9
7        3.6         2.6           .0         1.0           .0          .0           .0          .0          1.0
9    -   3.6         -- 2.-Si - -,    1.0                   .0          .0           .0          .0    -        *O
9        3.6          2.6          .0         1.0           .0           .0          .0           .0         1.0
10        3.6          2.6          .0         1.0           .0           .0          .0           .0         1.0
11        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
12        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
13        3.6          2.G          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
14        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
15        3.6          2.6          .0          1.0          .0           .0          .0           .0         1.0
16        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
17        3.6          2.6           .1          .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
18        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
19        3.6          2.6          .1           .9          .0           .0          .0           .0          .9
20         3.6         2.6        -1.7          2.7          .0           .0          .0           .0         2.7
PV-       20.4         14.7         4.2          1.G           .0          .0          .0           .0         1.6
Economic Rate of Return = 19%
(Dfr



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Project - Economic Flows and Returns
(Millions of 1983 Constant Kyats)
With Project                                Without Project
Operating    Capital     Net                  Operating    Capital    Net
Year   Revenue    Costs        Costs      Flow       Revenue     Costs        Costs     Flow    Incremental
1     201.8       188.2       12.8          .8      201.8       188.2        9.8         3.7       -2.9
2     202.2       188.7       85.4       -71.9      201.8       188.4       16.4        -3.0      -68.9
3     210.3       187.9      157.9    -135.5        201.8       188.6        6.3         6.9    -142.4
4     246.9       198.2        8.5        40.2      201.8       188.6        2.4        10.8       29.5
5     284.0       206.5       12.8        G4.7      201.8       188.6         1.6       11.6       53.2
G     292.0       211.3        2.2        78.5      201.8       188.6        6.7         6.4       72.1
7     292.0       211.3         1.        79.7      201.8       188.6        6.7         6.4       73.3
8     292.0       211.3         1.        79.7      201.8       188.6         1.6       11.6       68.1
9     292.0       211.3        7.8        73.0      201.8       188.6         1.6       11.6       61.4
10     292.0       211.3       13.4        67.4      201.8       188.6        3.0        10.1       57.3
11     292.0       211.3        7.6        73.1      201.8       188.6        5.1         8.0       65.1
12     292.0       211.3         1.1       79.6      201.8       188.6        5.1         8.0       71.6
13     292.0       211.3        1.1        79.6      201.8       188.6          .0       13.1       66.5
14     292.0       211.3         1.1       79.6      201.8       188.6          .0       13.1       66.5
15     292.0       211.3        7.8        73.0      201.8       188.6          .0       13.1       59.8
16     292.0       211.3       11.4        69.3      201.8       188.6        5.1         8.0       61.3
17     292.0       211.3        3.2        77.6      201.8       188.6        5.1         8.0       69.6
18     292.0       211.3         1.1       79.6      201.8       188.6        3.0        10.1       69.5
19     292.0       211.3        7.6        73.1      201.8       188.6          .0       13.1       60.0
20     292.0       211.3      -85.9       166.G      201.8       188.6      -19.9        33.1       133.5
PV-   2,170.3    1,693.4       237.9       239.0   1,687.9   1,577.3          44.8        65.8       173.2
Economic Rate of Return = 24.6%



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Conversion Factors and Switching Values - Benefits
Switching Values
Financial      Economic      Conversion              at 12%
Unit          Price         Price          Factor        Value      % Decrease
Teak Plywood                         K/Sheet         66.0           66.33        1.005            0.39           60
Hardwood Plywood                     K/Sheet         50.0           48.48        0.9696           0.37           62
Teak Veneer                          K/Sq.Ft.         1.0            1.0         1.0              0.56           44
Hardwood Blockboard                  K/Sheet        125.0          185.0         1.48             0.51           65
Teak Sawnwood - Export Grade         K/ST         6,000.0        6,000.0         1.0              0.43           57
Teak Sawnwood - Local Grade          K/ST         1,800.0        1,626.0         0.9031        < 0            > 100
Firewood (Teak)                      K/ST            85.0          150.0         1.76          < 0            > 100
Hardwood Conversions (Rough)         K/ST           765.0          765.0         1.0               .92            8
ao o



BURMA
WOOD INDIJSTRIES II PROJECT
Conversion Factors and Switching Values - Costs
Switching Values
Financial     Economic      Conversion              at 12%
Unit         Price         Price          Factor        Value      % Increase
Teak Mill
Teak Logs - Sawnwood Quality       K/HT            589.0       2,005          3.40          31.1            814
Panel Products Mill
Teak Logs                           K/HT           589.0       3,675          6.23          15.6             150.8
Hardwood Logs                       K/HT          242.5          500          2.06           4.0             94.45
Sawnwood                           K/HT            140.0         140          1.00           4.0            299.5
Glues, Tape, Extender, Hardener   K/MT         12,900.0        9,050          0.70           3.1            342.4
Hardwood Hills
Logs, In forest (Rough)             K/HT           185.0         420          2.27           2.6              13.0
Labor                                                                         0.80           7.8            872.7
Other Costs                                                                   1.23           6.1            392.4
New Capital (Fixed Assets)                                                    0.70           1.4             93.6
Incremental Working Capital                                                   0.93          21.1          2,167.7
pH) 
(D4 01



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Marginal Net Benefit and Switching Values - Incremental Production
Switching Values
Marginal   Marginal          (% Decrease)
Marginal    Marginal       Net       Benefit                 Incremental
Unit       Benefit        Cost       Benefit    Ratio (%)   Revenue   Production
Teak Plywood                                        66.33      31.77         34.56       52            60        > 100
Hardwood Plywood                    K/Sheet        48.48       23.22         25.00       52            62        > 100
Teak Veneer                         K/Sheet          1.00       0.48          0.52       52            44           84
lHardwood Blockboard                K/Sq.Ft.       185.00      88.61         96.38       52            65        > 125
Teak Sawnwood - Export Grade        K/Sheet     6,000.00      300.00      5,700.00       95         > 100        > 100
Teak Sawnwood - Domestic Grade    K/ST          1,626.00       81.30      1,544.70       95            52           55
Firewood (Teak)                     K/ST           150.00       7.50        142.50       95         > 100        > 100
Hardwood Conversions (Rough)        K/ST          765.00      550.00        215.00       28             8           28
PDr
(D >



BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
Switching Values for Combined Benefits/Costs
Operating          Capital
Benefits            Costs             Costs           Production
Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation               - 66              +  72             +  72               - 70
Teak Sawmill Reconstruction               - 50              +  72             + 106               - 95
Panel Products Mill                       - 19              +  46             +  47               - 32
Hardwood Mill                             -  8              +  11             +  38               - 28
Project                                   - 36              + 149             + 100               - 50
'.00'
m z4
'I     Cy



-71-                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
BURMA
WOOD INDUSTRIES II PROJECT
List of Related Documents and Data Available on the Project File
A.      Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1    Burma, Forest Feasibility Studies
Prepared by Sandwell Management Consultants, Limited, comprising:
X4040/1   Study Background, February 10, 1978
X4040/2   Vol. 1 Forest Resources - Main Report, February 10, 1978
Vol. 2 Forest Resources - Annexes
X4040/3   The Existing Forest Products Industry, February 10, 1978
X4040/4   Mechanical Wood Products Markets, February 10, 1978
X4040/5   Pulp and Paper Markets, February 1, 1978
X4040/6   Forest Industry Development, February 10, 1978
X4040/7   Timber Corporation Organization and Management,
October 31, 1978
X4040/8   Timber Extraction Studies, December 31, 1978
X4040/9   Teak Veneer Mill Feasibility Study, October 31, 1978
X4040/10  Bassein Integrated Sawmill Study (partial study -
abandoned due to insufficient resource; resource data
available)
X4040/11  Central Burma Hardwood Sawmill
Vol. 1 Wood Resources Study - Man Report, May 31, 1978
Vol. 2 Wood Resources Study - Annexes
X4040/12  Central Burma Hardwood Sawmill Feasibility Study,
July 4, 1978
A.2    Forestry Sector - Appraisal Reports



-72-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
A.2.1  IBRD, Burma, Appraisal of Forest Project
Report No. 374a-BA
May 24, 1974
A.2.2  IBRD, Burma, Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project
Report No. 2463-BA
July 17, 1979
A.2.3  IBRD, Burma, Wood Industries I Project
Report No. 3162-BA
February 19, 1981
A.2.4  ADB, Burma, Appraisal of the Forestry Project
Report No. BUR:Ap-8
January 1977
A.2.5  ADB, Burma, Appraisal of the Second Forestry Project
Report No. BUR:Ap-20, June 1982
B.     Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1    Burma, Wood Industries II Project - Draft Preparation Report
FAO/World Bank CP, FAO Investment Center
December 1982
B.2    Technical Reports - Timber Corporation
Wood Industries II Project (Annex 1-14)
December 1982
Wood Industries II Project (Annex 1-14)
Working Papers, December 1982
C.     Selected Working Papers
C.1    Hardwood Sawmilling - Technical and Operational Analysis
C.2    Teak Sawmills - Technical and Operational Analysis
C.3    Panel Products Mill - Technical and Operational Analysis
C.4    Technical Assistance and Training
C.5    Market Analysis
C.6    Financial Analysis and Cost Calculations
C.7    Economic Analysis



-73-                                 ANNEX 7
Page 3
D.    Supplementary Supporting Data
D.1   Summary of Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation Investment Cost
D.2   Summary of Teak Sawmill Reconstruction Investment Cost
D.3   Summary of Panel Products Mill Investment Cost
D.4   Summary of Hardwood Mill Investment Cost
D.5   Summary of Incremental Working Capital Cost
D.6   Summary of Other Costs
D.7   Detailed Costs for Sawmill Rehabilitation at Ahlone
D.8   Detailed Costs for Sawmill Reconstruction at Dallah
D.9   Detailed Costs for Panel Products Mill
D.10  Detailed Costs for Hardwood Mill
D.ll  Detailed Costs for Technical Assistance
D.12  Detailed Costs for Training
D.13  Detailed Costs for Strengthening Administrative Support and Construction
D.14  Working Capital for Sawmill Rehabilitation
D.15  Working Capital for Sawmill Reconstruction
D.16  Working Capital for Panel Products Mill
D.17  Working Capital for Hardwood Mill
D.18  Glossary






Appoooomaebtodop                              I~~~~~~~~91                                                4
BHUtTANY -,
Atoosao  oo, Z- '
I NDIA5              
7'    CHINA
~LAO    ~      ~                                          oo        ~      ~      ~      I
PEOPLE'S  N                                                  K     y~~~~~~~~C    IN  
THAILN           
N    -,  7'~ I                            I               -                           o--o h
~~o0oomts~~~~Seoy   ANN             Li                     -     ~       ~      H 
- ~~~fo-  5VIE   -   -  !HORMOs                          (              a~~~~~~~~~~~A 
Gto/tatTHaaDoO  /              -7               {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-  5F  E~
54YO  2IA=                                                                                                                             FMOCRATaslao-oooiiC
/ INC                                                      Now      -
1  5                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPBI
J~                   ~          5Oo~Klw
THAILAjNLA
RAOF-                          V            o           tBURMA           -     K          TooS
KEK    WMLSR hWif.                              looto.ti-
BUR MA OET    -iU    IACD
WOD NDUSTRIES AiPOJC
140                P~~~AtNE PROADUS, ML
HARCOODAR SOAWMLS
BOIONTRFATONEST  IOINDA FfINCEDI
MALESY
KIOETR     I                                                                                         fat I7od t./ 
MIE6     -        h         10        20         0 



