Document of
The World Bank                                 1    oO?N ,f
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3536-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 20.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 25, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and- may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     Uganda Shilling (Ugh)
US$ 1.00                =         USh 107.0 (First Window)
US$ 1.00                =         USh 240.0 (Second Window)
USh 1.00                =         US$   0.009 (First Window)
USh 1.00                =         US$   0.004 (Second Window)
On August 23, 1982, the Government introduced a dual exchange
rate coupled with a 5% devaluation of the official (First Window) exchange
rate. The exchange rate in the Second Window is market determined through
weekly auction and subject to fluctuations; it has steadily fallen from
USh 300 to the Dollar in August 1982 to USh 250 to the Dollar in mid-
November 1982 and USh 230 in January 1982. Over the last three months, it
has risen slightly again, to USh 250 to the Dollar. Conversions in the
Staff Appraisal and President's Report have been made at the First Window
rate, which is applicable to all external assistance projects.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
UPTC  =  Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
MPPT = Ministry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications
VHF   =  Very High Frequency
UHF   =  Ultra High Frequency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Uganda
Beneficiary:    Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC)
Amount:          SDR 20.4 million (US$22 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Relending        Repayment to Government within 15 years, including 3 years
Terms:           of grace, at 15% interest per annum; UPTC to bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Commitment Fee: Standard
Project:         The Project represents an essential part of UPTC's rehabi-
litation and investment program for the period 1982-87. It
would address the most urgent sector needs. It would en-
sure the flow of foreign exchange needed to prevent further
deterioration of telecommunications services, rehabilitate
telecommunications capacity back to about pre-war levels,
allow the utilization of some idle capacity existing in the
system, and attain acceptable standards of postal service.
It would also place the initial building blocks of institu-
tional development - sector legislation, accounting and
financial control, and comprehensive training. The Project
has three main components, namely rehabilitation of tele-
communications, postal and common services, technical
assistance, and two years' worth of imported spare parts
and materials.
Risks:           The main uncertainties associated with the Project relate
to possible delays in implementation. However, sensitivity
analyses show that even a two-year delay in all benefits
with no postponement of costs (a very unlikely combination)
would still leave the project economically viable. A
second main risk facing the project is the unstable secu-
rity situation in Uganda. But security has already im-
proved considerably over the last year and is expected to
improve further, especially as the economy recovers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                              Local   Foreign   Total
Costs:                                                 -----(US$ million)-----
Telecommunications Rehabilitation   2.2           9.8      12.0
Postal Rehabilitation                  0.2        0.9       1.1
Common Services Rehabilitation         0.3        1.3       1.6
Training                               0.2        2.4       2.6
Technical Assistance                    -         2.8       2.8
Recurrent Purchases                    0.5        1.8       2.3
Total Base Cost                      3.4 a/   19.0      22.4
Price Contingencies                  0.6        3.0      3.6
Total Project Cost                   4.0       22.0     26.0
a/ Including US$0.9 million of taxes and duties.
Financing                                              Local   Foreign   Total
Plan:                                                  --=-(US$ million)…
Proposed IDA Credit                     -        22.0     22.0
UPTC                                   4.0         -        4.0
Total Project Cost                   4.0      22.0      26.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                               ----------(US$ million)----------
IDA Fiscal Year       FY84       FY85       FY86       FY87
Actual                      6.5        6.4        5.6        3.5
Cumulative                  6.5       12.9       18.5      22.0
Rate of          (a) Assuming an increase, due to the Project, by 1988 of
Return:              telephone lines in working order by about 12,800 and of
telex lines by 280,
(b) including some of the consumer surplus by assuming that
telecommunications users in the future will be willing
to pay for services the same prices, in real terms, as
they pay today, and
(c) applying a standard conversion factor of 0.6 to local
costs and benefits,
the economic rate of return of the Project is 37%.
Appraisal
Report:          No. 4392-UG, dated April 25, 1983.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for the equivalent of SDR 20.4
million (US$22 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
posts and telecommunications rehabilitation project. The Government would
channel the proceeds of the credit to the Uganda Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC) for 15 years including 3 years of
grace at 15% per annum interest.  UPTC would bear the exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in August 1981 and its report,
entitled "Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 3773-UG) dated
March 31, 1982, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages: a favorable climate (with two rainy seasons in most parts of
the country); fertile soils; a well-established indigenous smallholder
sector producing a widening range of export crops (coffee, cotton, tea, and
tobacco) and an ample domestic food supply; a small industrial sector con-
tributing exports of textiles and copper; a well-developed transport infra-
structure; an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity; and one of the most
advanced education systems in East Africa. Uganda's complement of skilled
and trained manpower was greater than that of either Kenya or Tanzania.
With those two countries it shared well-developed services: the railways,
ports, airline, posts and telecommunications. These favorable initial con-
ditions, combined with competent economic management, resulted in a steady
2% per year growth in per capita GDP (1963-70), and an average savings rate
of 13%, which in turn permitted a high level of investment without infla-
*        tionary pressure.  A balance of payments current account surplus was main-
tained in most years, and central government revenue increased faster than
recurrent expenditure, contributing a significant proportion of development
*        outlays.
4.        Uganda's political situation was less felicitous.  Long-standing
conflicts between the largest single kingdom (Buganda), the other kingdoms
1/ This Part is essentially the same as the corresponding Part in the
President's Reports for the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Third
Education Projects dated February 1, 1983, Report Nos. P-3455-UG and
P-3456-UG, respectively.



- 2 -
and the rest of the country continued during the 1960s, and became further
complicated by ideological and social rivalries. This led to increasing
dependence on the military, and in 1971, a coup by the army brought a
military regime to power.
5.        From 1971 to 1979, (the year when the military government fell),
the economy declined drastically. GDP stagnated and per capita incomes
fell.  Deterioration occurred in almost every sector of the economy.
Savings and investment, exports and government revenues declined in real
terms. Government and balance of payments deficits increased, arrears were
accumulated and blackmarketing and corruption flourished. Only subsistence
agriculture continued growing in response to both food security needs and
the curtailment of earning opportunities in the monetized sectors. The
coffee boom in 1977 provided temporary respite and for a time imports reco-
vered. But by 1979, the combined impact of the previous years' depre-
dations and the damage and looting during and after the war had reduced the
economy of Uganda to ruins. Crops were damaged, livestock killed, many
buildings and factories gutted and portable goods of all kinds -- ranging
from school books and office records to tools, equipment and vehicles --
were stolen (frequently to be smuggled into neighboring countries).
6.        A Commonwealth team of experts that reviewed the Ugandan economy
in May 1979 recommended a rehabilitation program of administrative and
policy reform supported by the infusion of foreign exchange. The reforms
proposed included:  the raising of agricultural producer prices and the
relief of bottlenecks in the transport and marketing systems; the strength-
ening of foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing; a moratorium on
parastatal and cooperative indebtedness to enable banks to advance import
credit while this indebtedness was being studied; and the relaxation of
price controls coupled with either devaluation or a combination of foreign
exchange auctions and higher taxes.
7.        Until 1981, no action was taken on any of these proposals, except
the raising of agricultural producer prices, the value of which was soon
wiped out by inflation. This failure to undertake policy and administra-
tive reform, coupled with continuing political instability, drought, the
1979 oil shock and world recession led to even more rapid declines in out-
put and incomes from 1979 to 1981 than had occurred previously. Taking the
deteriorating terms of trade into account, per capita income in 1980 was
some 27% below its 1978 level. Although there has probably been some reco-
very in 1981, especially in the agricultural sector, average incomes are
still depressed. Capital productivity is severely constrained by inade-
quate maintenance, a drying-up of raw material and spare part supplies, and
the looting of workshops and tools during and after the war.
8.        By 1981, the estimated volume of merchandise imports was 30%
below the 1978 level (and nearly 60% below the 1970 level). This was de-
spite an increase in official grant and loan disbursements from US$63
million per year in 1977-78 to US$200 million per year in 1979-81, an in-
crease in payment arrears of US$140 million during 1979 and 1980 and a
US$100 million drawdown of gross foreign exchange reserves. The main
factors responsible for this were a sharp fall in export volumes during



-3-
1980 (part of a long-term decline evident since the early 1970s) and a
deterioration in the terms of trade by 55% from 1978 to 1981. Capital
flight, though unquantifiable, was probably substantial and imports may
also have been under-recorded. The severity of the present balance of pay-
ments constraint highlights both the difficulty and critical importance of
foreign exchange management, in particular the need to scrutinize carefully
the Government's own import requirements. The Government is taking steps
to improve its procedures for foreign exchange allocation.
9.        Uganda's external debt was inadequately monitored and controlled
during the 1970s, and it is therefore difficult to present clear data. The
World Bank's estimates, based on data from the Uganda Treasury and the Bank
of Uganda, show total external debt outstanding of US$920 million at the
end of 1981, of which US$620 million was disbursed. IBRD's share of this
was 4.2% while 9.9% was due to IDA. Official development loans account for
less than two-thirds of outstanding debt. The balance is from private
sources or war-related commitments to Tanzania and Zambia. A large part of
the debt is in arrears: some US$84 million of debt outstanding at the end
of 1981 was principal arrears. (Total arrears, including short-term debt
and current payments are estimated at US$150 million at the end of 1981).
The debt service ratio was moderately high for a low-income country at
17.5% at the end of 1980, but rose sharply to more than 50% in 1981.
Furthermore, more than one-third of debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1981 was to have fallen due over the next two years. Successive
meetings of the Paris Club in November 1981 and December 1982 rescheduled
obligations of US$12 million falling due in 1981/82 and US$22 million in
1982/83. Rescheduling of debts owed to non-participants in the Paris Club
(accounting for US$118 million of principal repayments in 1981/82 and about
U$106 million of total debt service in 1982/83) has been carried out on
comparable terms.
The Government's Program
10.       The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this, how-
ever, is the goal of rehabilitating the directly productive sectors, with-
out which, the Government recognizes, there can be no economic development,
nor expanded social services. The first step towards rehabilitation was
the introduction of a financial program for 1981/82, supported by a 13-
month stand-by arrangement (SDR 112.5 million) with the IMF, as well as by
the release of the balance (US$75.0 million) from the First IDA Reconstruc-
tion Credit. A second stand-by arrangement for 1982/83 (another SDR 112.5
million) was approved by the IMF in August 1982.  These two programs are
intended to stabilize the economy and eventually revive investment and pro-
duction through restoring a measure of confidence in the currency, reducing
price distortions and improving fiscal and monetary discipline. In partic-
ular, since mid 1981, the Government has taken the following actions:
(a)  it devalued the official value of the Ugandan shilling by
approximately 92%, from USh8 to the US dollar in April 1981 to
around UShlOO by August 1982. In addition, the Bank of Uganda
has now opened a second window, where foreign exchange will be
more freely traded in an auction system. The rate established



-4-
at the second window has steadily fallen from USh300 to the US
dollar in August to USh250 by mid November 1982;
(b) it raised the official producer prices for major export crops by
400%-700% and retail prices for petroleum products by 1400%-
1900%. Similar adjustments have also been made in public utility
tariffs. Most other price controls have been removed (although
in practice, many goods are still sold through parastatals at
below market prices);
(c) it rationalized the taxation structure by converting import
duties and some excise duties to an ad valorem basis, and raising
the effective tax rates on a number of major revenue-producing
items. In the 1982/83 budget, government employees were exempted
from PAYE (in lieu of wage and salary increases) and the inci-
dence of personal income tax was reduced;
(d) it agreed to ceilings -- subsequently met for 1981/82 -- on
government borrowing and domestic credit expansion; and
(e) it introduced a more realistic and flexible interest rate struc-
ture.
11.       It has now been more than a year since the first measures under
the IMF programs were introduced, and the initial impact on economic per-
formance has generally been favorable. First and foremost, there has been
a significant increase in official purchases of coffee, the major export
crop, from 98,000 tons in 1980/81 to 165,000 tons in 1981/82. A large pro-
portion of this growth probably came from reduced smuggling and farmers'
stocks, rather than increased production. But, even so, it enabled Uganda
to meet its ICO export quota for the second year in a row, and provided a
major source of budgetary revenue. Second, there are indications that out-
put of other products is beginning to recover. Cotton production, for ex-
ample, is expected to more than triple to nearly 20,000 tons in the 1982/83
marketing year. Output from a number of key industries also rose signifi-
cantly during 1981 (admittedly from a very low level of capacity utiliza-
tion): cement by 8%, matches by 13%, textiles by 14%, sugar by 24%, ciga-
rettes by 27%, and blankets by 142%. As a result overall GDP is estimated
to have grown by 8% in 1981 and is expected to rise again by at least 5% in
1982. Finally, the impact of the program on consumer prices has been mod-
erated somewhat by the fact that many goods were already being sold at in-
flated "magendo" prices. Prices did rise sharply in May and June 1981 (re-
flecting in large part the increases in administered prices), and there has
been a resurgence of price inflation around the Kampala area in recent
months, apparently due to the impact of security and transport bottlenecks.
However, the available data indicate a significant decline in the overall
inflation rate from around 100% per annum during 1979-81 to 50% in 1982.
Even so, real wages remain extremely low. The minimum wage, which was
raised by more than 100% in August 1981, still only buys the equivalent of
about six kilograms of sugar or three bars of soap per month at prevailing



- 5 -
market prices. Civil service salaries are so low that, despite subsidized
housing and other benefits, officials are forced to pursue other occupa-
tions. The removal of price controls and privileged access to limited sup-
plies of goods has probably resulted in hardship for certain groups, possi-
bly including some poorer ones. While wage and salary restraint is surely
necessary, the success of the program will also depend on its maintaining a
minimum standard of living and adequate work incentives.
12.       The Government's Recovery Program, released in April 1982, is in-
tended to provide a broader framework for the development of the economy
over the next two years.  This Program includes proposals for further
policy and institutional reforms as well as a project-specific investment
plan for 1982/83 and 1983/84. The total size of the investment plan is
US$737 million (including a "tail" of expenditures in 1984/85), of which
about 80% is in foreign exchange. This cost is barely one-third of the
original project submissions, and could hardly be cut further without jeop-
ardizing the Program's modest goals. The basic strategy of the Recovery
Program is also well suited to present conditions in Uganda, focussing on
the short-term revival of the economy's productive sectors, and was strong-
ly endorsed by the Consultative Group meeting held in May 1982. While the
Program recognizes the importance of social sectors, on both humanitarian
and development grounds, actual allocations to these sectors have been
sharply curtailed, pending progress on rebuilding the productive base of
the economy. In all sectors, priority is given to rehabilitation and im-
proved utilization of existing capacity, with expansion limited to certain
well-defined areas, such as production of agricultural implements and bal-
ancing investments. There are, in fact, very few new projects included in
the investment plan. Consistent with this strategy, appropriate criteria
have been used to help screen and select projects. For the productive
sectors, primary emphasis has been given to projects which promise rapid
foreign exchange benefits through either increased export performance or
judicious import substitution. The Recovery Program also reiterates the
Government's intention to encourage the development of a "mixed economy",
by allowing former owners to reclaim their property or claim compensation,
and by inviting private investment in a number of areas.
13.       While there are important areas in which further steps are
needed, a decisive start to recovery has now been made. With the exception
of some export crop prices, which will require adjustment, the major policy
changes needed have been made.  Now, the main areas of action are largely
institutional and will necessarily take time to implement. Moreover, the
Government has responded promptly to the evolving situation by continuing
the process of price adjustment and by initiating a number of institutional
changes in the key areas of foreign exchange management, budgeting and
planning. The Program itself and the Government's evolving policies merit
support and encouragement.
Sectoral Priorities
14.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels, es-
pecially exports. This entails the highest priority initially being given
to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communications



- 6 -
infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, building ma-
terials and agricultural requirements by the industrial sector. Other
sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabilitation.
But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must be limited
to the extent of their potential contribution in the shorter term to the
recovery process. Improvements in medical services, the repair of damaged
classrooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for ex-
ample, may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable incentive
to producers.
15.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's exports in
recent years. Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered serious food shortages
in recent years as a result of low rainfall and insecurity.
16.       The rehabilitation of agriculture is the top priority for
Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could
all grow rapidly within the next three years (although the previous peak
levels are not likely to be reached until later in the 1980s). In addi-
tion, food exports to neighboring countries are a distinct possibility.
The revival of cotton and other agricultural production would also supply
some domestic industrial needs. The central constraint to recovery is the
incentive system. Prices for export crops must be remunerative, the effi-
ciency of the marketing system must be improved, and payment to farmers
must be prompt. Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, imple-
ments, spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate
the production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, will also need more attention.
17.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g. textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, since 1971, the per-
formance of the sector has been disappointing.  Now, many industries have
closed down while others continue to operate at very low levels of capacity
utilization. At present, the most obvious and generally binding constraint
is the severe shortage of foreign exchange.  However, the longer-term
decline in the sector reflects more fundamental constraints which could
well re-emerge as the foreign exchange situation improves. These include:
shortages of qualified managerial and technical expertise, problems of
creditworthiness (resulting from ownership uncertainty, financial indisci-
pline, and, more recently, the impact of the 1981 devaluation on costs),
and over-expansion and political interference in the management of the
parastatal sector. As noted above, the Government has now declared its in-
tention to follow a "mixed economy" strategy, with only essential public
services reserved exclusively for the public sector. In other areas,
domestic and foreign private enterprise is to be encouraged, either wholly



owned or in joint ventures with the Government. The Government expects to
close down or sell off a number of the existing industrial enterprises,
while the financial viability of the remaining parastatals is to be res-
tored through increased tariffs, asset revaluation and injections of new
capital. However, the modalities for this restructuring process are still
to be worked out.
18.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined
earlier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and
inadequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977 had a
serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes: as a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania. This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while
increasing their cost. Transport was moreover the sector possibly most
seriously affected by the war and the widespread looting which followed.
The vehicle fleet in particular was decimated. Rehabilitation of the
transport system thus becomes a key requirement.
19.       Energy use in Uganda is primarily based on electricity, petroleum
and woodfuels. At the present time, Uganda's electric generating capacity
is underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed as the
economy recovers and the opportunities are taken to substitute for more ex-
pensive fuels (such as petroleum products) and to secure long-term export
agreements with neighboring countries. Petroleum imports are likely to
remain a major drain on the country's foreign exchange for the foreseeable
future. The Government has taken decisive action to curb consumption and
smuggling through the recent increases in retail petroleum prices. How-
ever, the effective control of petroleum marketing and costs remain with
the oil companies. A major source of energy for domestic heating and cook-
ing is woodfuel, and thus concern is mounting that uncontrolled development
of charcoal and firewood will eventually deplete the most accessible forest
resources and lead to further soil erosion problems. The Bank Group is un-
dertaking an energy assessment for Uganda to identify major institutional
and policy issues in the sector and provide a basis for pending investment
decisions.
Assistance Needs
20.       If recovery is to be sustained in 1983, Uganda's merchandise im-
ports must rise at least 40% over 1981 levels, to about US$570 million in
current prices, with most of the increase allocated for inputs and spare
parts for agriculture, industry and transport, and for basic consumer
goods. Over the subsequent two years, imports are expected to increase
less rapidly, by about 5% per annum, since there appears to be ample scope
for reestablishing domestic supply sources and reducing the import content
of production. If these higher import levels can be financed and if prog-
ress continues on the economic management and institutional issues dis-
cussed earlier, GDP could grow at 5-6% per annum on average from 1982 to
1985, with monetary agriculture and industry as the leading sectors.



- 8 -
21.       The other major claim on available foreign exchange is debt ser-
vice. Principal repayments are projected to total US$191 million in 1983
and US$40 million in 1984.  Invisibles may be expected to be a net drain on
foreign exchange during the 1980s, even if there is some revival in tour-
ism. Uganda also should provide for a reduction in arrears and some build-
up of external reserves. The total financing requirement -- for merchan-
dise imports, invisibles and reserve accumulation -- is expected to be
US$0.75 billion in 1983, rising to US$1.0 billion by 1985.
22.       Exports can be expected to make an important contribution towards
meeting this requirement. For the next two to three years at least, agri-
cultural exports will be the key to recovery. Provided prices are remuner-
ative, marketing becomes more efficient and the supply of agricultural
inputs and consumer goods improves, merchandise exports could grow by about
9% per year on average from 1982-85. Although high rates of growth in all
of the main agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco) can be
expected, coffee will remain dominant for some years. Beyond 1985, the
prospects for other exports, including maize, groundnuts, animal feed,
hides and skins, copper, cobalt and cotton textiles are promising, provided
the exchange rate is maintained at an appropriate level.
23.       Over the next three years, some US$470-560 million per year over
and above export earnings will be needed to meet requirements. If official
grant and loan commitments are maintained in real terms and disbursements
and debt service follow a normal pattern, these could provide some US$330
million per year on average. A further US$70 million (net) per year could
be available from the IMF, if Uganda remains eligible for further resources
under future stand-by arrangements. This leaves about US$110 million per
year over the next three years to be met from new resources.
24.        Uganda will not be able to finance this gap on commercial terms.
If the amount needed were borrowed at 11.6% for nine years, with four years
of grace (terms far better than those available on the market at present),
Uganda's debt service ratio, including IMF obligations, would remain around
40% through 1985, and reach 69% by 1990. Some short-term non-concessional
borrowing may prove unavoidable, given the bunching of principal repay-
ments, but care must be taken to ensure that the resulting debt burden is
manageable. Without additional external financing, GDP growth would have
to be cut to levels that would allow no significant recovery in per capita
terms.  Uganda will therefore need additional financing on concessional
terms to achieve its much-needed recovery. This financing will, moreover,
have to be fast-disbursing, in the form of balance of payments support or
projects which focus on immediate and urgent requirements. New investment
for the next three years and possibly longer must be limited to urgent
rehabilitation needs.
25.       The participants at the Consultative Group meeting endorsed the
Recovery Program, both as a framework for government action and as a
vehicle for mobilizing and allocating external assistance. However, many
donors indicated that any additional support would be conditional upon an
improvement in the internal security situation in Uganda. The resultant
delays in finalizing new aid commitments, coupled with a deterioration in



market conditions for Uganda's major export crops, has meant that there is
likely to be a shortfall in the resources required to fully implement the
first year of the Recovery Program. This will force rephasing of the
planned investments from 1982/83 to 1983/84, some additional spillover into
1984/85, and possibly an extension of the recovery period into 1985/86.
Nevertheless, the Recovery Program remains an extremely useful summary of
the Government's immediate priorities, and the Bank Group's lending program
for the next two to three years would be designed taking these priorities
into account.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 2/
26.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda has benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which have been extended for the development of the common services and the
East African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda through their association in the former East African Community
(EAC). Annex II contains summary statements and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. IFC's first investment in Uganda, in a textile company,
was sold to the Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges
in the national parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC
approved a new investmient in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company in November
1982.
27.       There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Program of US$72.5 million (including
a participation of US$17.5 million by the Netherlands) and an EEC Special
Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Nos. 983/983-1-UG and
54-UG). The Association is also acting as Administrator of a Can$3.0
million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0 million program
loan from the OPEC Fund. The amount from all sources totals approximately
US$100.0 million equivalent. The Reconstruction Credit originally experi-
enced delays and disbursements were slow; it is now fully disbursed. Com-
mitments have started under the Second Reconstruction Credit of US$70.0
million equivalent (No. 1252-UG), approved in May 1982. In addition, the
Association has provided US$158.0 million through a Technical Assistance
Credit (No. 1077-UG), a Water Supply Engineering Credit (No. 1110-UG), a
Phosphate Engineering Credit (No. 1228-UG), an Industrial Rehabilitation
Credit (No. 1248-UG), an Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1328-UG)
and a Third Education Credit (No. 1329-UG). There has been continued
progress in the implementation of the Technical Assistance Project. The
first sub-projects have been completed and disbursements have commenced.
2/ This Part is essentially the same as the corresponding Part in the
President's Reports for the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Third
Education Projects dated February 1, 1983, Report Nos. P-3455-UG and
P-3456-UG, respectively.



- 10 -
The credit is virtually fully committed and a follow-up project is being
prepared. Disbursements under the Water Supply Engineering Credit are
continuing and have started satisfactorily under the Phosphate Engineering
Credit and the Industrial Rehabilitation Credit. Two credits, Third
Education and Agricultural Rehabilitation, were approved in February 1983
but are not yet effective. The Bank Group also administers an Agricultural
Reconstruction Program of US$20.0 million equivalent financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development. In the immediate future,
Bank Group operations will remain focussed on rehabilitation projects. The
emphasis will shift gradually into traditional projects in agriculture,
industry, transport and energy sectors. Rehabilitation projects are under
preparation for roads, power and water supply.
28.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the Mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals. Negotiations
started in December 1981 in Arusha, continued in April 1982 in Jinja, in
September 1982 in Nairobi, and in December 1982 in Kampala. It is expected
that the next major step will be a meeting of the three Presidents, perhaps
in May or June 1983. The discussions have meanwhile passed the fact find-
ing stage and are now focussing on details of a division formula for assets
and debts. While it is generally accepted that both location of assets and
the principle of equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken
into account, the weight to be attributed to these principles from case to
case remains the major issue in the continuing negotiations.
PART III - THE POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
29.       Uganda, with a total population of about 13 million, has about
23,000 connected telephone lines and 47,000 telephones, or 0.3 telephones
per 100 inhabitants (December 1982).  This density is comparable to Sudan
(0.3), but lower than Tanzania (0.6), Kenya (1.2) and the average for
African developing countries (0.8). Furthermore, telephone service is
heavily concentrated on Kampala, which has only 4% of Uganda's population
but 58% of the country's telephones. Telephone service is available in
only 27 of the 32 district headquarters towns, in about 60 of the 145
county headquarters towns, and in less than 20 of the about 700 sub-county
headquarters towns. Overall, barely 7% of Uganda's population live in
towns where there is telephone service. In Kampala, about 58% of telephone
lines are connected to business and government subscribers, and 42% to



- 11 -
residences. Wholesale and retail trade accounts for 20% of all lines in
Kampala, while services and government administration use 15% and 11%,
respectively.
30.       There are a total of 360 post offices in Uganda, or about one
post office for every 670 square km, which compares favorably with the
relative penetration of Kenya and Tanzania (about one per 1,200 square
km).  Eight of these are head post offices (one in each of the largest
towns), six are branch post offices (in Kampala and Jinja), and 50 are
departmental post offices in smaller towns; all are staffed by UPTC. In
addition, there are 296 sub-post offices operated by private agents.
Approximately 300 stamp vendor licenses have been granted to individuals,
schools and hospitals. Mail correspondence is delivered to a total of
about 40,000 post office boxes. There is no house to house delivery
service.
31.       There are about 520 telex subscribers in Kampala, Jinja and five
other towns. Telegrams are accepted and received in the 64 main post
offices and transmitted by telex or telephone. No telegraph service is
available in the rest of the country.
Organization
32.       Authority for postal and telecommunications services is vested in
the Ministry of Power, Posts and Telecommunications (MPPT). The Uganda
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (UPTC) is responsible for the
operation of all public domestic and international postal and telecommuni-
cations services. UPTC, which will be in charge of implementing the pro-
posed Project, is described in detail in paragraphs 51 to 56 below.
33.       The military, police, civil aviation and railways authorities
have limited telecommunications facilities needed to meet specialized
requirements. Radio and television broadcasting are operated by the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.
34.       There is no telecommunications manufacturing in the country.  An
operative electric cable factory in Lugazi can produce simple types of
specialized wire and cable, but UPTC purchases of these materials would be
minimal in the near future. UPTC is currently setting up a plant to im-
pregnate wooden telephone poles of local production; this plant would be
completed as part of the proposed Project.
Telecommunications Facilities
35.       During the war of 1979, much of Uganda's postal and telecommuni-
cation infrastructure was destroyed, seriously damaged, or looted. Parts
of the disabled plants and installations, however, have meanwhile been, or
are being, replaced and rehabilitated with financing from the EEC and UNDP.
36.       As of December 1981, there were 112 telephone exchanges in opera-
tion, having an installed capacity of 36,700 lines with 20,479 connected
subscriber lines. Eighty-two percent of all subscribers are connected to



- 12 -
automatic telephone exchanges, most of which have been in operation for
less than ten years. Average primary cable and local exchange occupation
is low (e.g. only 61% in Kampala) and leaves spare capacity for connecting
additional subscribers; this is so because the distribution cable system
and subscribers installations have not been sufficiently developed. A
rural radio system provides basic radio-telephone services among 35 rural
places and with Kampala. A microwave system linking Kampala, Jinja and
Nairobi is part of the Pan African Telecommunications network. Other
microwave links, either completed or under construction, connect Kampala
with Entebbe, Masaka and Mbarara. In the rest of the country, the trunk
network consists of VHF/UHF links and overhead lines with carrier
equipment, most of which is obsolete.  However, except for segments damaged
by war and for widespread reduction in capacity due to lack of spares, the
main trunk routes appear to be in fair working condition.
37.       International services are provided through a standard A INTELSAT
earth station commissioned in 1981, together with an international tele-
phone exchange and a 500 line electronic telex exchange. A 300-line cross-
bar telex exchange is out of service due to lack of spare parts. Public
telegraph service uses teleprinters, linked to the telex system, through 13
offices outside Kampala and 15 offices in the capital. A further 36 tele-
graph offices relay telegrams by telephone.
38.       Telephone service is very poor and deteriorating from day to day.
Damaged equipment and lack of spare parts cause bottlenecks and unreliable
service. During the rainy months, widespread disruption of telephone
service in Kampala is common. There are about 5,000 subscriber lines out
of service throughout the country (22% of the total). A sample taken in
mid-1982 showed that about 80% of faulty subscriber lines in Jinja were out
of operation for more than one month, and 23% for over a year, because of
UPTC's inability to undertake prompt repairs. Postal service is almost at
a standstill. Delays in the order of two weeks are common among head post
offices, and delays of up to one or two months are frequent. Problems with
control of operations and lack of adequate stationery resulted in the sus-
pension of postal money order services in 1980. Telegraph service in
several of the main towns is not in operation due to lack of teleprinter
paper.
Demand for Services
39.       At the end of 1982, there were about 22,000 outstanding applica-
tions for new telephone lines on UPTC's waiting list. Added to about
22,500 lines in service, this brings total expressed demand to about 44,500
lines. Assuming 10% annual growth (which was the rate observed in the
period 1971-77), expressed demand is forecast to rise steadily over the
next years, to about 72,500 in 1987. At the same time, based on the speci-
fic rehabilitation and development projects included in UPTC's 1982-87
program (paragraph 42 below), the number of connected telephone lines is
estimated to increase to about 45,600 in 1987, which would still only
satisfy about two thirds of expressed demand. It should be noted, however,
that UPTC's waiting list may not accurately reflect unmet demand. On the



- 13 -
one hand, almost half of the applicants have been registered on the list
for more than three years, and many of these applications may no longer be
valid. On the other hand, the long waiting time may have discouraged
potential applicants, who may come forward with new applications only as
new connections and improved service are perceived by the public to be
available. Overall, the above forecasts are likely to underestimate de-
mand. UPTC's own estimates show a total demand of about 92,000 lines for
1987. There is also a considerable unmet demand for telex connections and
post office boxes. No forecasts are available, but expressed telex demand
grew at an average 21% per year for the period 1976-82, despite the war,
and doubled over the last two years.
Sector Constraints
40.       The main constraints on sector development are the lack of an
adequate legal framework for UPTC (paragraph 52 below), the scarcity of
foreign exchange, the deficiency of financial procedures and management,
and the inefficiency of work. Among these, shortage of foreign exchange
ranks high since maintenance and developoment of telecommunications infra-
structure require regular imports of spare parts, vehicles, and equipment.
UPTC has not had regular access to foreign exchange since its establishment
in 1977. Inadequate financial controls have been a major factor towards
considerable waste of resources: no accounts have been finalized after
those for 1977, billing is well behind schedule, accounts receivable for
services rendered to Government amount to about six months' billing, up-
dated accurate records of UPTC's assets are not available and stores con-
trols is inadequate. Staff efficiency has been undermined by the difficult
conditions prevailing in the country in recent years, sustained lack of
work materials, and very low remunerations that make it necessary for staff
to spend much of their energy on outside activities to earn a living.
Efficiency is further affected by overstaffing and lack of training facili-
ties. As described below, the proposed Project would address itself to
those constraints that are of the highest priority and for which solutions
can realistically be expected in the near future. Other issues, e.g., the
lack of adequate staff remunerations, are not confined to the telecommuni-
cations sector and are the subject of an ongoing general policy dialogue
with the Government.
Sector Development Goals
41.        The Government recognizes that, in the long run, the posts and
telecommunications sector should meet demands at prices that ensure full
cost recovery, and extend services at low cost outside the main urban
centers into the rural areas. For the immediate future, however, the
Government's "Recovery Programme 1982-1984" allocates highest priority to
the restoration of services in major population and business centers and to
improvements of UPTC's operating efficiency and financial position.
42.       Taking account of these objectives and priorities the Government,
in consultation with IDA, has worked out, and decided upon, an investment



- 14 -
program of about US$115 million equivalent (including contingencies and
including US$98 million of foreign exchange) for the development of the
posts and telecommunications sector during the period 1982-87. With some
technical assistance, this program should be feasible, provided sufficient
amounts of external financing can be secured. The proposed Project would
be a major component (about 22% by base cost) of the program. Other cor-
nerstones of the program will be the establishment of further long distance
microwave links between major towns throughout Uganda and local telephone
service development in five towns (Tororo, Mbale, Soroti, Lira, and Gulu).
Also included in the program are replacement and first-phase expansion of
telephone cable and subscribers' plant as well as of telephone exchanges,
all in Kampala. Provision or improvement of telephone and postal services
in rural areas are envisaged under the program for 1985-87. The completion
of the Kampala main post office extension, headquarters building, and minor
other buildings under construction would be another component of the
program. If implemented as planned, the 1982-87 development program for
the sector would more than double the number of connected telephone lines
throughout the country and would substantially improve telephone density
(from about 0.3 stations per 100 inhabitants to 0.6 stations per 100 inhab-
itants, assuming 3% p.a. population growth and the continuation of the
current ratio of 2.04 telephones per line).
43.       Financing arrangements for the entire program are not yet se-
cured, but firm financing is already at hand for some of its components.
France has agreed to provide all required external financing, including
some local cost, of replacing (about 10,000 lines) and expanding (20,000
lines) telephone exchanges in Kampala. UNDP and the European Economic
Community are financing microwave links between Kampala and Entebbe and
between Kampala, Mbarara and Masaka. Remaining program components may form
the basis for a follow-up IDA credit in 1985/86, if no other sources of
finance can be found. Most individual components of the program, in par-
ticular the proposed Project, are self contained and would be financially
and technically viable irrespective of the implementation of other program
components. In order to contain UPTC's development within the bounds of a
feasible investment program responsive to Government's priorities, the
Government and UPTC are committed not to incur capital expenditures in the
sector of more than US$5.0 million above the planned level for the 1982 to
1987 program (US$115 million) without a financing and implementation plan
agreed with IDA (Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Sector Role of the World Bank Group
44.       The Bank Group has been associated with the telecommunications
sector in Uganda since 1966, In February 1967, the Bank approved a US$13
million loan to the (now defunct) East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (Ln. 483-EA) to help finance a project designed to increase
local and long distance facilities in the territory of the East African
Community, including Uganda. A second loan (Ln. 675-EA), for US$10.4
million, was approved in 1970 to finance further extensions of telecommuni-
cations services. These projects were satisfactorily completed in 1974 and
1975, respectively. A third loan (Ln. 914-EA), for US$32.5 million, was
approved in May 1973; most of the works to be undertaken in Uganda were



- 15 -
completed in 1978. A fourth project was appraised but a proposed loan
did not materialize as the East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation gave way in 1977 to three independent national telecommunica-
tions corporations. There have been so far no separate telecommunications
loans or credits to Uganda. However, about US$2.3 million of urgent im-
ports for initial post-war operation of services were financed under the
(First) Reconstruction Program (US$72.5 million Credit of April 2, 1980;
Cr. 983-UG).  A performance audit report was prepared in 1975 for the first
two projects. While holding an overall positive view of the projects'
achievements, it pointed out large delays in project implementation caused
by inadequate planning and project management, problems in procurement, and
excessive dependence on expatriate staff.
45.       The posts and telecommunications sector of Uganda was reviewed by
an IDA mission in the fall of 1982. The mission's findings laid the basis
for the proposed Project, whose objectives are described in paragraphs 47
and 48 below. With IDA pursuing the issue of salaries and wages at the
country policy level, and improved sector legislation and financial per-
formance being dealt with in connection with the proposed Project, the
basis would be established for increasing UPTC staff remunerations so as to
eventually overcome this constraint on sector productivity. IDA would also
help prepare the sector for expansion of capacity in terms of projects
amenable to multilateral and other external financing in the immediately
following years. A follow-up IDA credit, envisaged for 1985/86, could
complement expansion financed by other sources, continue support in the
area of finances, and provide technical assistance to undertake broader
institutional strengthening.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The proposed Project is a substantial part of the Government's
and UPTC's rehabilitation and development program for the period 1982-87 in
the posts and telecommunications sector (paragraph 42 above). It was pre-
*         appraised in October 1982 and appraised in January 1983.  A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Uganda - Uganda Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(UPTC) - Posts and Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project", Report No.
4392-UG, dated April 25, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is provided in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1983. The
Government of Uganda and UPTC were represented by a delegation led by The
Honorable Mr. Akena P'Ojok, Minister of Power, Posts and Telecommunica-
tions.
Project Formulation and Objectives
47.       The proposed Project mainly aims at urgently rehabilitating or
replacing telecommunications plant which was run down for lack of spare
parts or damaged in the 1978/79 war, improving the standard of postal



- 16 -
service in the country, and addressing selected areas of badly needed
institutional development within the posts and telecommunications sector.
In particular, the physical components of the Project would restore to
working order telephone lines currently out of service, connect new tele-
phone lines to existing spare exchange capacity, increase the proportion of
successful long distance telephone call attempts, and connect new telex
subscribers. The Project also aims at achieving next day delivery of
letters in all head post offices and similar improvements of delivery be-
tween other post offices.
48.       Institutional strengthening of the sector would also be a major
objective of the Project. Its focus would be on establishing an adequate
legal framework within which UPTC can effectively operate as a commercial
utility, on starting up adequate accounting procedures and financial con-
trol and management practices, and on preparing a strategy for the integ-
rated development of postal and telecommunications services in rural areas.
Technical plans for system development utilizing modern electronic digital
technology, and establishing a training facility and a comprehensive train-
ing program, to be undertaken in the framework of the Project, would also
contribute to institutional improvements.
Project Description
49.       The proposed Project has three main components, namely rehabili-
tation of services, technical assistance and recurrent purchases. The
rehabilitation component would cover both telecommunications and posts, as
well as common services. To rehabilitate telecommunications services, two
1,000-line containerized automatic telephone exchanges would be supplied
and installed at Masaka and Mbarara, and existing telephone exchanges in
Jinja, Entebbe, Mengo, Fort Portal, Kakira, and Lugazi would be repaired
and extended. Also included in this Project component would be the repair
of the existing Pentaconta telex exchange and a 120-line extension of the
existing Nedix telex exchange. Furthermore, cables, lines, telephone
instruments, teleprinters and equipment and materials for repairing and
supplementing overhead lines, local cable networks and subscriber plants as
well as for extending basic service to about 200 rural communities, would
also be supplied as part of this component. For the rehabilitation of
postal services, postal equipment including mail bags, safes, scales,
office machines, post office boxes, and mail boxes would be procured under
the Project. In addition, a fleet of vehicles, together with machinery and
tools for maintenance of these and of existing vehicles would be supplied
under the Project for common use of telecommunications and postal services,
as would be miscellaneous equipment for print shop, drawing office and
buildings branch. As part of the rehabilitation component, the Project
would further include the import of materials to complete UPTC's training
center building. Training would be improved by the import, under the
Project, of training equipment, instruments and materials, and by the
provision of 110 manmonths of experts in training management and instruc-
tions.
50.       A total of 234 manmonths of consulting services and experts,
to be financed from the proposed Credit, would provide the technical
assistance necessary to support the physical components of the Project



- 17 -
and to prepare future projects in the sector. These would include finan-
cial consultants, experts in telecommunications and postal project imple-
mentation and operations, and specialists in telecommunications digital
system planning and project preparation. Terms of reference of all experts
and specialists have been prepared in consultation with the International
Telecommunication Union and the Universal Postal Union who will recruit the
selected persons on behalf of the Government. Terms of reference for the
financial consultants have been finalized with the Government and have been
used to invite bids. The conclusion, by the Government, of contracts with
a selected firm for the provision of financial consultancy services and
ol      with the International Telecommunication Union and the Universal Postal
Union for the provision of postal and telecommunications experts, would be
conditions of effectiveness for the proposed Credit (Section 6.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement). The recurrent purchases component provides
for two years' needs of spare parts and materials for telecommunications
operation and maintenance, postal operation, and existing and new vehicles.
Project Implementation: Uganda Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (UPTC)
51.       Implementation of the whole Project would be the responsibility
of UPTC. UPTC is a Government-owned entity. The 1977 Presidential Decree
which established UPTC as caretaker of the assets of the defunct East
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation in Uganda was expected to
apply for only one year. A more definite legislation has not been enacted
yet, and the 1977 Decree is an inadequate framework for UPTC's operation on
a sound commercial basis. UPTC's Board of Directors has not been appoint-
ed, its Managing Director is in place only in acting capacity, assets and
liabilities are not well defined, and UPTC has limited borrowing powers.
Under such circumstances, UPTC is a corporation in name only, while in fact
functioning more or less as a technical department of the Government. This
represents an institutional constraint to effective development, operation
and management of sector resources, as the Government and UPTC are well
aware.
52.       A draft UPTC Bill, in preparation since 1981, has recently been
finalized and approved by the Government; it would redress the shortcomings
resulting from the current indefinite status and powers of UPTC. The
*        Government will take all actions necessary on its part to ensure that by
September 30, 1983, UPTC shall have been established as a financially
autonomous public utility [Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement].  The Bill has meanwhile been submitted to Parliament, and its
passage and promulgation is expected well before September.  Further, with-
in three months thereafter, the Government and UPTC will enter into a sub-
sidiary loan agreement for onlending the proceeds of the proposed Credit to
UPTC under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA [Section 3.01(c) of the
Development Credit Agreement].
Organization and Staffing of UPTC
53.       UPTC's organization, which is adequate for the present level of
UPTC responsibilities, reflects the structure inherited from the East



- 18 -
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation. Five departments are
responsible for telecommunications services, postal services, planning,
finance and accounting, and personnel and training. Operation and mainte-
nance are partly decentralized on a regional basis. Project preparation,
including the drafting of bid documents, is the responsibility of the
Planning Department, while the physical works would be undertaken by the
Telecommunications and Postal Services Departments.
54.       UPTC employs a total of 4,071 workers.  There is substantial
overstaffing in the telecommunications branch, with about 125 persons per
1,000 connected telephone lines (compared to about 80 persons in Kenya and
Tanzania). UPTC expects to reduce this ratio to about 67 staff per 1,000
telephones by the end of 1987. UPTC's salaries, like those of other para-
statals, are inadequate to maintain staff motivation, especially at middle
and upper management levels. UPTC is in principle empowered to increase
salaries and benefits from its own resources. Consolidation of UPTC's
status as a corporation as well as improvements in billing, collection and
financial performance, as pursued in connection with the proposed Project,
would enable UPTC to afford paying attractive remunerations.
UPTC's Financial Management
55.       Financial control of UPTC is at present unsatisfactory.  No
accounts have been issued for any year after 1977, and an acceptable man-
agement information system does not exist. Although the elements of organ-
ization required for effective financial and accounting management are in
place and the higher positions filled in the Finance and Accounting
Department are occupied by qualified accountants, they cannot perform their
functions well, as UPTC has not yet established an adequate financial man-
agement framework. In order to redress this constraint, the financial con-
sultants provided under the Project (paragraph 50 above) would provide the
necessary technical assistance, which would include a wide spectrum of
measures ranging from the. preparation of a statement of affairs as of
December 31, 1982 to the development of a methodology for recommendations
of tariff changes. They would also help establish a value for *ll fixed
assets used by UPTC, as of December 31, 1982. By September 30, 1984, UPTC
would propose for IDA approval a method for their annual revaluation
[Section 4.04(i) of the Development Credit Agreement]. They would be
revalued annually thereafter in accordance with methods acceptable to IDA
for the purpose of calculating the rate of return on such assets (Section
4.04(iii) of the Development Credit Agreement).
56.       The last (and only) available audited financial statement for
UPTC is that for FY77, It shows satisfactory financial results. Since
then, no statements have been prepared. Draft financial results for FY82,
however, indicate continued acceptable financial performance. For the near
future, UPTC is projected to have an adequate net internal cash generation,
which should suffice to finance the equivalent of 42% of the total costs of
its rehabilitation and development program for the period 1983 to 1987.
UPTC's projected financial performance over the Project period is reason-
able. In 1987, UPTC's operating ratio is expected to be 74% and its rate
of return on net revalued assets 16%, which is satisfactory. For 1989,



- 19 -
forecasts indicate that a tariff increase will be required, although for
financial projection purposes no tariff increase has been assumed. UPTC's
rate of return on tentatively revalued net fixed telecommunications assets
in operation is expected to remain acceptable, despite inflation, as does
UPTC's net internal cash generation. From FY83 onwards, UPTC would main-
tain its annual rate of return on net revalued telecommunications assets in
operation at not less than 12% (Section 4.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement), which would ensure adequate cash generation to meet UPTC's
future financial requirements.  UPTC would also maintain its tariffs at an
adequate level to provide at least 30% of each year's program investment
cost from internal cash generation (Section 4.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
UPTC's Tariffs
57.       UPTC's tariffs mainly follow the structure of the tariffs of the
former East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, with some
adjustments to reflect changes in the foreign exchange components of costs
resulting from devaluation of the Ugandan currency. Following initial
devaluation of the shilling, telephone and telex tariffs were increased in
early 1982 by about 400% for domestic services and 600% for international
services. Nonetheless, UPTC tariffs are low relative to those of neighbor-
ing countries. In particular, international telephone and telex charges
are only about one-third of those internationally agreed. This is likely
to result in an excess of outgoing over incoming traffic and the need for
UPTC to make substantial payments in foreign exchange to other administra-
tions to settle the differences in revenue participation. A revision of
UPTC's international telephone, telex and postal rates is currently under
way. The promulgation of revised international tariffs, acceptable to IDA,
would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit [Section
6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement]. In order to create the basis
for formulating a comprehensive pricing policy in the sector and for
introducing consequential adjustments in the tariff structure, a tariff
study covering cost structure, demand characteristics, supply constraints,
and financial requirements would be needed. However, a meaningful tariff
study cannot be undertaken before much better accounting information is
available. Improvements in data recording and accounting initiated under
the proposed Project, would allow a tariff study, with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, to be undertaken after mid-1985 (Section 3.08 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       Total Project costs are estimated at US$26.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$22.0 million or 85%. Local costs include
US$0.9 million of import taxes and duties (mainly on vehicles). Telecommu-
nications rehabilitation, with a total of US$12.0 million, accounts for
more than half of Project base costs. Rehabilitation of postal services
and of common services account for US$1.1 million and US$1.6 million,
respectively. Training and technical assistance make up US$2.6 million and
US$2.8 million, respectively. Recurrent purchases (US$2.3 million) account
for the balance of Project base cost. Price contingencies, estimated at
US$3.6 million, have been added to make up the balance of the US$26.0



- 20 -
million total Project cost. Given the nature and advanced state of prepa-
ration of the Project, no allowance for physical contingencies is needed.
Average base costs per manmonth for the firm of financial consultants and
for the other experts are estimated at US$15,000 and US$10,000, respec-
tively. These costs include various allowances, overhead in the case of
the consultancy firm, and international travel in addition to salaries.
They are considered normal for the region.
59.       The proposed Credit of US$22.0 million would finance all foreign
exchange cost of the Project (or, again, 85% of total Project cost). The
remaining US$4.0 million, mainly for remuneration of UPTC's staff involved
in Project execution and for taxes and duties (paragraph 58 above), would
be financed by UPTC from internally generated funds. Of the proceeds of
the Credit, US$11.2 million would be allocated for telecommunications
equipment and material for telecommunications rehabilitation and related
recurrent imports as well as for laboratories. US$3.9 million would be
used to finance the completion of the training school, postal materials,
vehicles, tools and miscellaneous items for postal rehabilitation. Another
US$3.9 million would be allocated for consultants and experts. The balance
of US$3.0 million would be left unallocated. The Government would channel
the proceeds of the Credit to UPTC to be repaid to the Government over a
period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 15% per annum interest.
UPTC would bear the foreign exchange risk. Except for the foreign exchange
risk, these arrangements are similar to those agreed under the Industrial
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1248-UG of June 29, 1982) and under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1328-UG of March 11, 1983) and
are reasonable. In particular, the interest rate is expected to be posi-
tive in real terms over the Project period.
Procurement
60.       Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank Group's standard
guidelines. Supply and installation of equipment and supply of materials,
totalling US$11.1 million equivalent, would be grouped to the extent prac-
ticable to increase competition, and packages of US$50,000 equivalent or
more would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Supply and installation of equipment totalling US$2.6 million equivalent
that is proprietary and obtainable only from specified manufacturers, would
be procured through negotiated contracts and would be eligible for financ-
ing from the proposed Credit only if negotiated prices are reasonably in
line with those obtained elsewhere under similar circumstances. Small
items and miscellaneous materials and spares estimated at a total of US$2.9
million that cannot be grouped into packages of more than US$50,000 equiva-
lent would be procured through limited international tendering. US$900,000
worth of vehicles would be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding among the international car manufacturers represented in Uganda in
order to ensure that service and spare parts will be available for vehicle
maintenance. A contract for the training school building has already been
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, and construction would
resume as soon as foreign exchange for the purchase of the required mate-
rial is made available through the proposed Credit. Procurement through
local competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to
IDA would amount to about US$0.9 million equivalent. The financial



- 21 -
consultants for UPTC would be selected in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines for the Employment of Consultants. The experts to be hired by
the International Telecommunications Union and the Universal Postal Union
(paragraph 50 above) would be recruited internationally according to the
procedures of these two United Nations agencies.   Their selection would be
made in consultation with IDA.
Disbursement
61.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed against
all foreign expenditures for consultants and experts. Disbursements for
all other items eligible for financing from the proposed Credit would be
made against all foreign exchange expenditures, or against the ex-factory
costs, or against 75% of expenditures for items procured locally. In view
of UPTC's as yet unimproved accounting and auditing, no provision would be
made for an advance payment by IDA into a replenishable "revolving fund"
nor for the possibility of disbursing against statements of expenditure,
and full documentation would be required for all disbursements. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       For monitoring and reporting progress in implementation of the
program, the proposed Project, and UPTC's general performance, a set of
indicators, which would help UPTC's management and IDA monitor Project
implementation and operational and financial performance, has been prepared
and agreed upon (Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement). These
indicators and their expected annual variations represent agreed construc-
tion objectives and operational and financial targets. They would be
compared with actual achievements in progress monitoring during the imple-
mentation period of the Project (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits
63.       While returns on investment (paragraph 67 below) and risks (para-
graphs 68 to 70 below) have been evaluated for the proposed Project alone,
the overall economic analysis has been expanded to cover UPTC's entire
rehabilitation and development program 1982 to 1987 (paragraph 42 above),
of which the Project forms a major part.
64.       Telecommunications and postal services benefit all sectors of
Uganda's economy. With adequate facilities, many economic activities can
be realized that would otherwise not be feasible. Improved services can be
expected to play a significant role in alleviating specific constraints on
Uganda's economic and social development. In particular: they would help
to increase the efficiency of existing transport infrastructure and vehi-
cles, which is urgent to alleviate domestic and international transport
bottlenecks in the delivery of inputs to agriculture and industry and of
produce to markets, and which would also result in energy savings or
greater efficiency of productive interaction for a given level of energy
consumption. Postal improvements would facilitate the supply to rural
areas of priority items needed for the rehabilitation of smallholder



- 22 -
agriculture, including implements and inputs for production, spare parts,
packaging and building materials, fuel, and basic consumer goods.
65.       The working of market mechanisms would be improved by expediting
and extending access to information. Agricultural extension, nutrition and
public health programs, livestock disease control, and the implementation
of a countrywide smallholder credit scheme would be facilitated. The
program would further ease the movement of money throughout the country,
including the rural areas, by providing a postal money order and savings
banking system. It would also help improve the efficiency of Government
and parastatal administration, including extended coverage of advice and
supervision by scarce middle and higher level technical and management
personnel and a reduction of administrative bottlenecks and unnecessary
travel.
66.       In addition to serving the needs of economic production and dis-
tribution activities in both urban and rural areas, UPTC's 1982-87 program
would result in a large net contribution of funds to Government for use in
other sectors with less capacity to mobilize domestic resources. For the
period 1983-87, the net cash flowing from UPTC to Government, comprising
commercial transaction levies (sales tax), taxes on net income, dividends,
and customs duties, are estimated at USh 5.1 billion. The scope for
further increasing the sectors's contribution to Government funding would
be examined in the framework of the study mentioned in paragraph 57 above.
67.       On the basis of projected incremental expenditures and projected
incremental revenues generated from increased numbers of telephone lines in
working order and connected telex lines, and reduced long distance conges-
tion, the financial rate of return of the proposed Project is about 27%.
After partial quantification of the consumers' surplus based on the assump-
tion that telecommunications users in the future will be willing to pay
prices in real terms equal to those now prevailing, and after adjustment
for taxes and duties and the application of a standard conversion factor of
0.60 to local costs and benefits, the minimum quantifiable estimate of the
Project's economic rate of return is 37%.
Risk
68.       The main uncertainties associated with the Project relate to pos-
sible delays in implementation. The worst scenario is one where UPTC makes
most or all of the investments on time but fails to connect the new sub-
scribers promptly or otherwise precludes the benefits from materializing.
However, a sensitivity analysis shows that a one-year delay in all the
benefits with no postponement of costs would reduce the minimum quantifi-
able economic rate of return of the Project from 37% to 27%, or to 21% for
a two-year delay. Similarly, a 10% increase in capital and operating
costs, combined with a 10% decrease in benefits, would reduce the minimum
economic rate of return from 37% to 28%. This is satisfactory.
69.       Major increases in workers' remunerations or major changes in the
foreign exchange rate, for which UPTC bears the risk, could affect UPTC's
costs. Covenants on rate of return and internal cash generation provide



- 23 -
the necessary instruments to trigger a revision of tariff levels, should
major cost increases make this necessary.
70.       Delays in establishing UPTC as a financially independent, sound
public utility would not affect Project implementation. Improvement of
sector legislation, although an important matter on the agenda for the
ongoing national policies dialogue between the Government and IDA, is not a
prerequisite for Project execution. Security is a problem, but has im-
proved considerably over the last year and is expected to improve further,
especially as the economy recovers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and UPTC, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors.
72.       The placement of contracts with a selected firm for financial
consultancy services and with the International Telecommunication Union and
the Universal Postal Union for the provision of telecommunications and
postal experts (paragraph 50 above) as well as the promulgation of accept-
able revised international tariffs by the Government and UPTC (paragraph 57
above) would be special conditions of effectiveness. Other special condi-
tions of the proposed Credit are listed in Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 25, 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 24 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1  of  5
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            236.0                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     106.1               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  140.0        230.0     300.0                 250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       38.7         84.9      38.7                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  7286.0        9758.0   12630.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.2            8.0       8.7                  17.8                    28.3'
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        24.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          72.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. B04.                       30.9         41.3      52.1                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND      77.7         97.7     116.0                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3         44.4      45.2                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                          53.6         52.6      51.7                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1          3.1       3.1                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.9       2.6                   2.7                     2.8
URBAN                               7.1          7.1       3.4                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         44.6      44.7                  47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.3         16.6      13.7                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          3.0       3.0                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          3.8      16.1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          107.0        99.0       86.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.5         98.1      93.4/d                90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.9         55.3      58.87d                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21.1        23.7       26.871                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.5         22.3      17.8                  26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.7          48.7      53.7                  45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           138.9        113.2      97.2                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         22.0      35.0/c                23.9
URBAN                                ..         88.0     100.07W                54.9
RURAL                                ..         17.0      29.0/c                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         76.0      94.0/c                25.8
URBAN                                ..         84.0      82.07o                63.1
RURAL                                *-         76.0      95.0/c                20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          15053.7/e   14666.2/e 26811.9/d              32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10025.47W    2704.07W  4175.07o                3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             749.8        638.0     611.5/c              1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                              76.7         82.9      99.57W               249.5                   430.8
RURAL                            1713.5       1818.4    1596.57W              1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..       154.1/f
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          4.8
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



- 25-                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
- NOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         39.0      50.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  65.0        48.0       58.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE               32.0         31.0      41.0                   50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          4.0       5.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   4.0         6.0        7.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        3.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  11.6           7.4       5.41d                  7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.7         33.5      35.0/d                47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          17.8         19.8      25.57d                26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        34.9/          ..      47.9                   34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.5          3.0       2.5/h                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.4         23.6      20.3                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1/i        1.4       5.8                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.3          8.5       1.6                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..       0.1/d                 1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3254.6       4187.0    5133.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.1         34.6      33.9                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         86.0      83.0                  78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0          5.0       6.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         42.9      40.6                   41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 58.8         56.8      54.2                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                               31.0         29.3      27.3                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         20.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          46.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         16.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0/d                60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country; /f Government establishments only;
/I 1962; /h 1977'; /i 1963.
May 1982



-26 -                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Fer, Alkthogbh rho date are dr.n- from coerces generally Judged the mast authoritative end reliable, it should else be noeed that they yac nor be inter-
uutionaliyo=eperable because of the lack of standardtesd defiuititos  uud concepts tusd by df1ferret roontieos ir colLttitog the deta.  The det  er                   e
thaless.  _eful to describe ord-ro of eugeitfdo, ifdilate trends, and charanterite  ertrain sajor differences btoeoe - oe.triet.
The refereone groops are (1) tho uuoe .ou.try group of the sobjerr country end (2) a country groop sith uoorhe   higher overage ijcose thee rho country groop
of the nobjeci reentry  (eccept for   "High Incoxe   Oil fEpor-rs" greop shoot "sliddlo Irncee Sorth iferia ond xiddlo lust" to chosen beconse of  trroofer
noofo-celteul affiniieies).  In ehe rfoeree groyp date the uverages are population  eighred arithmetic  _eans for eoch iodicu-c  od shore only shoe
najo_ity of tn  -ountries in a grop hut dire fnc thartindirutor.  Snce the chro,uge of  countries roong the indicutors deyeods on the e..ilubility  of iatn
and in 000 onifore, caoteon rust be execfiund in relating uveragos of one ledicre   te aother.  Theseavrages are only ounul in coupecitg the velne of
non indicaror at a tihe roong the c-otry and etferenot gerops.
AREA (th ...utd sq.kt.)                                                                           Populuthon per  ...situl ted - total. erbch, und rural - PoyPlecite  (total,
Total - Totuf -urfuce area  -oopr,iiog lard rre ua island vuters; 1979 data.                      urbaso, ud rrurl) divided by their respetie notb-r of hospital bedo
o-riculter.l - intimate of agrtl-turah area used reoporurily or percanently                        _avlable ih  public ead private g-roacl  and speciehired hospitl und co-
for orops, pastureu, uorkrt End kitfhen gerdoos or to lie fullos; 1979 drat.                   habilitotiono e-ets.  if-pitclu ara eeaaliroeheu terna_eItly otuffed
by us lbout roe phyuirrut. Estoblisbhrotn pro-idiog priroipally onst-
GNP PER CAPITA (U1$) - GNP per cupita ostitAtes at current socket prices, c1-                      dialtas ace sosIoclded.  RoalI hospitals. hnseeor. include hoelth
rulaeed hy some ceonvrsio-  -ethod ao  World lak Arlas (190 dO busis); 1960,                     aed medicat rooters not p-rmroocly staffed by a physician (hot by a
1970. cod 1901 daea.                                                                              sedical assistant, nue, midwife. err.)  hlih offier iI-patioo  uccoo-
dutior red prucide e liolted cr-go or sedicat fu   itia.  Fcr utetit
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PI  R CAPITA - AInnal .o.suyrptio  of  -orrial energy (coal                      otionl p pruei ocher =oicitels irolhdo WHO. priclipal/geoerrl houpitrl,
end lignirt, peoroleun, narru.l gat red hydro-. nuclear end georheormu  elec-                     ued coral huspirals, local or reral hospituls cod =edical atd s-rereity
trility) in kilogruen of reel eqoivalent per capice; 1960, 1970,  ad 1979                         renters.  Spoeialited hospitalu are inc-dd d. ly coder tota
data.                                                                                          Admissions per  ospitial Bed - Total unbur of  dniunoer to o   it-a hrfes
POPULATION AND ViTAL SIATSgTICS                                                                     fron hospitals divided by the rusher sf beds.
Total Populatio., Mid-Yfor (othousads) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, ead 19ff                  dOUSING
duto.                                                                                        Av-raeg  Sieu   ltod fy..to. Pero ho-rnbld) --rro,u -u, end corel-
Urben  yopulion (perrort of torel) - fatfo of urban to rural yopulatrio;                          A huooehold -ortists of u group  of irdivid_ols  h the   utre liatog qetra-
different deficirtoos of orban  oreus taY alfect  -obprahility of daut                          cod their =in reels.  A boarder or  lodger =y or sy cor be included it
eeongcountiris; 1960t, 1970. cod 19d0  aua,                                                    the horsehold tar etatlsrlal puro
Population Projeri.ns                                                                         A-verage Ito er of persons per roos-totul, ecbho, cod coral -   average sum-
Popularion In year 2000 - Current poiutio  projections are based or 1980                       ber of porsons  per  roou  fo all orbca, cod rural ocrupied  -crvecti o.el
total population by ago cod sex and their _rtcrlity end fertiliry rates.                     dvellingo, ronpooLively.  Dvellings excludenon-prrer=ent s--ecres- nd
Projoctioc porasetors for trrtaity cores c""prise of three levels assun-                     unoccpied port.
log life etpectancy  rt birth i..c.e..ig with coutry's per cepit  ioom                     Across to Eletricity  (pr-ent of dvellings) - total, obh.e, rad rural -
levl, and twe=ls life erpor retry scuhielzing at 71.5 years.  The pure-                      ConTentional .. olliega rich olectriciry in livy lg rqactors on perc-nt.go
orcers toe fertility rare also haee three levels asun=ing decline in                         of total,  rbac, end coral deliliogs respectively.
fertility .c.r.diog to Intot level and past fSculy planning perfotvture.
farh  country is then astigoed 000 of th..o tiIe  caobiettio-n of sortelity             EDUCATION
rad fertility trends for projoctioc p-rposes.                                              Adjurted Ertollmrt REtiot
scatiorary yopulation-I. a stionery poptlarion there is to grovtth  i-ce                       Prisary school - totr l, nle aod f-leis - Gr-os corel, rule and fenDle
the birrh rare is equal to the death rare, and also the age structure re-                      enroll=ont of all ager at the ptri=y leoel at perceDteges of respectite
meitr  co- rtant.  This ia achitevd rely efrer fectflicy  rares docline to                      pritary  school-age popolatriens; cor=lly tocludor childreo  oged h-ti
rho replacoecIt lovel of unit ret reprodu-tion rare. venb sorb generation                      years he  adju-tod for difler-ot lengths of pri=ry educarirn; for
of so=r ceplaces itself execily.  The ot-rlos.ry population siee was                            o.urtrien with universal education orcoll=ent say   eeed 100 percent
eutipated os rhe baous of tho projected  characteristics of the polion                          in           pils        beo  or sb-e rho ofcial -chtol
i0 tho year 2000, asd the rate of decline of fertility rp le to roplaoe-                      soc         h-Der - shoolu  -  oal, o     ted feens - Conpnetd as  brr;s;ucodary
meor level.                                                                                    eduntetor rqeqires at least foor yeear  of approred primary instrucc tos;
Year stationay populetion is couched - The year vee station-ry population                         providor goneral,  -coetiocul. or teachnr rrioig in-tructioos for ptpils
si;o  sill bt reoted.                                                                          ousully of 12 to 17 years of age; -ccoupordor.e courtes are gnorally
FoPulatior Density                                                                                  e-cluded
Per sq. tno. - Hid-yetc prpulariDc per sq-- otoilomter (1ft hectares) of                     Vocariunal torilnce-t (perent of secondary) - V.ratiotal itstit-tioon
totr  urea; 1960. 1970  rad 1979 deer.              .                                        intlode rpchoical, industriel, or other progrons which operate isdrpepd-
Pee SD. ho.  geiroltneel land - Compyted us  bohve for agricultural lend                       oAtly or en doyneptro-s of  -noud yry       ittoo
only; 1960, 1970 acd 1979 data.                                                            Popyl-teerh-e ratie  - pricary, ard secrona.ry - T.t   strudetnt  r.rolled it
PWIttion Age Itrucre (peononr) - Children (0-14 yrars), worIng-age fl5-                          prisety acd  _econdarp levels dirided by noubers If oehchrs io the
64 years), cod retired (65 years and roer) e  per-ertages of oid-year popu-                     creesepordiog levels.
lutiu,s  1961, tll9, and 1910 dara.                                                          Adult literacy rate (Vecrest) - Literrte dults (able to read cod vrite)
Popularlor growth late (fercent) - total - Annual grrwth races of total cid-                      us a percentage of toi-h adult populati-o agad 15 years cod over.
your populatio toe 1950-60, 1960-70, ard 1970- 0.
Pyoplarion Ico=th late (yercent) - ocbhe  - Aenual grouth ratoe  of urban Popu-              CONSU'dPTION
lstions for 1950-60, 1960-70, rod 1970-80.                                                   Casseser fars (per thousend prpulatioof - Paeneoger cers compoose oror
Cedo  itch f              o    )  - Ao-ual lico births  per thousand of mid-year                 cues  etatg trus thao eight yerrors; o- ludes Bnba.un.es, iherses rod
poyalacior  1901.  19lU, aon 1900 dote.                                                        silt ary  _ehice.
Crude South lace fper th-osuod) - Ann.al deaths per thounerd  of oid-ypor                      lealo Eeceivees (pee thoeusad populetion) - All types of recurvors for radio
poyPlactior; 196D, 1970.  rad lOt date.                                                         broad r...t  t      a     bl   pee rIcer ead at pop-luriro;    I'clodos en-
Rcsolarod-itonrL lr- Averu9e robor of d-rghtrnreureell hear te                                 license.d  -ocivo  ra       rot de rc   0  erso. reistertr  of rodio
her nor=al repyod-ltive pyriod if sh. experiences present age-specific fer-                     sets was to effect; dart  for recent yours rp rot bh  co-paruble si.co
rili.p oraes; usually five-year arerages erdiog it  1960, 1970, red 19Sf.                      =rstcclOuori.  bohlished lienosing.
Fs=ily Planinfg - Acc Vpers, Aenual (rho..urds) - Annuel tr_ber of acceptors                    TV ORteers fperrthousan  yeploiec) - TV cooeivers for broadca t co
of biy h- Pl o ni     de- c-  uder ean-fpire. of outioneal faPily Plnr.iog progren.             generul public per thontand  tPopltio .      r...dec  -o  -Vtersed TfVect.
foully PI.n.iut -lue.rs IpurceIt of.nrre   oua-Pecrgeof retried                                   iroestIesuod in yeasshrceltrtr   of ITne    son is e.ffort.
Toorn of cbild-bearing age (I5-44 years) uho one birtb-ooutol  dances to                     bevsper Circulation  fpnretusad  porolation) - Shovs the average rir-
all maciud cameo Is seen age groop.                                                            ruirs of "daily geoeral irsereor nespapor", defined as   periodicel
publir-itio deooted prierrily to  -ecding general sees.  It is co.nidered
PDOl ADIl NUTRITION                                                                                 to he "deilyc if it epyeure at leont fret rise   _rob.
indrx of ueod Predoattur per iCaita (1969-7l=ll  - Irdex of per cepita annual                 tCire= Anona  Alteedants per  sapita per Year - Iaued co tbe t      ,,ebs  of
produrtloc of ali rood _orerd _tios.  F-oduction etcldes reed  and feed a-d                    tickets sold doriIg the year, iocluding ad=tssiocs to drire-in irems
is on celend-r year bnis.  Crodities cover pri=rcy  oods (f.g.  ougfrcane                      cod oebilients
i otead of sugar) vhioh are edible end -orteis ourcierts (e.g. coffee  tad
toe  ore ceoluded).   gtregate prodretlos of -eah c-unrty is based on                      Lulls FORtE
-atio-l aesaego produ.ee pricerigth; 1901-65  1970. cod 1900 data.                          fotal Labor Porte (thouscods) -  ronialyour  pecuost   is.dttg
Pet t-ylto sopty ofrtolspeer of roroai-emntrs  - Comysted from                                  aI_d furors ad rres1tyed brt  -rrfdtcg hoarnices,  -tdr-s.Ot.
oenrgy  quicalent vf net food supplies avilable in country per capita                          covering  .pu..t.ion of all ages.  Definitions in carcer countries ase
yer day.  OA-itable uspplies to-prise domestic prodpitlon, Lmportr less                        tot co-pec-ble; 1960, 1970 cod 1991 data.
exporrt, and chaeges it stark.  Not supplies eoctode anon1 feed, curds,                        Fesole (pereort) - Fesole labor force as perratige of total labor for-.
quantities  -rod ir food processing, cod losses is distribotion.  Require-                     Agrirulture (per-ent) - Labor forte in flrniog, fore-try, hsting and
sorts .. re  n .ti=ted by PI bused as physirtogirol needs for rocri anti-                        fishing as peetentou io rotal lrbor fcrne; 1960. 1970 cod ItOI daut.
city cod health consideriAg rOcirormettl rorporaerce. body eeighrs. age                        Indrusty (pecrcor) - Labor force is =nob. c                 ..sr .oc.ior, s .acfurrtg
atd cr0 diirribot ioo of poputiro, anP  I    llong 10 percot for waste at                       atna elertriciy  outer cod gnas  yoeceoruge oi cr0a1 habor te
bousehold level; 1961-65, 190 acd 1977 dots.                                                    1910, 1970 and 1980 data.
Per capita uyp_ly of prote;t fgrs=  per  day) - Prreoti otent of per capita                   Participatiro bate frorcoot) - total. rale, snd for al  - lrtiipt-ot or c
out sopply of food per dy.  Ne  supply of food is defined us chore,  us-                       activity rates sre computed 00 total, nals. end ftrIt lsoro for-ceo
naleee  tfotr all --a-=          -otabltihud by UoDA provide for aI:o x                        poere"tages of total, rul  anhd f leoe popalrrti of ahl aefenesyti-ly;
oloatu  01h  ga   ef coral "Itris Pot day and 2it gree  of urinal cod                          1960, 1970, erd 1980 dart.  These em  based no tt'  yrilpt    rater
yulse protein, af whirl 10 greon should be ani=l prosin.  rhene staid-                         refle-ting age-see ntrctore of tho populstion, acd log time trood.  A
ards are lower thea  these of 711 fra    of total prtotri scd 23 geese of                      fee estiates are from rational sorcess.
arirul peroein a  sn a..ee-g  for the rorld, proponed by PAO ie the Third                     ornonDic Delvedency Ete-n -  alain  of poprulriro  cder 15 and 65 cod  ver
orlId Food Surrey; 1961-65. 1970 cud 1977 date,                                                to the toral lab.  Illoreen
Per emite protin   pply Icon aeoaf  cod ..l. -aa  Prro tn   sepply of food do-
Perd Pros arinsalpap d povle  i  gramsn per day; 1961-65, 1970 ard 1971 daea.              INCOfE DISTIlBUTION
Child (ages I-b) tusth Rtat  (per thooruod) - AtneI dearhs per rhosusnd is                     Perrentage of Prtreto Itroks (both is cent and  iod) - R-ceived by richest
ag  gau 1-A1I- yueeu  to children  i. chin uge group; for meet devlopieg cen-                  5 preet, riobeuc 20 oocronr, preert 7  porcoo. ald yoococt At porc..or
triMo  dets derived from  life tsblei; 1960, 1970 cod 1980 data,                               of hrn.. phoDds.
IkAra                                                                                          POVERTY TARGETr GROUPS
LifIe Ireerrory of Nirt  (yesrs) - overage  enVber of yeers of life roe=iniog                  Th  frllowing estimates are very upproriseer raurces of pavecty lerols,
at birth; l190, 1171 and 1900 dera.                                                            rod shoold be interpreted  ith co--iderable couter.
Insept frectelcy late (per thoeraed) - Annval deaths of irfants ender ore year                 EIstlered Absolete Poverty Isooss  Level (US$ per l!pito) - urhba red coral -
of age per themesan  live births; 1900, 1970 and 1900 data.                                    Absolute poverty incoe level  is the  iome s ovl be- chiclh ainisl
Atceft to lafe water (retreat of derlati) - rtoreal, abre acd cr-e    - Num-                      ectriti..ally adequate diet plea euseetial er-f-ood requirements is sot
her ofpol  frtl,uha,ad rraI  wish 'reeebeaoerr  muir                                           elfordable.
surer supply (iarludes treated surfete waters or untreated hue uncost.eioeted                ittimoted Eelative Poverty Incore Lsvel ff09 pee capitol - ocher ted rural -
...t nuch us that fros  prtscted boteholea, springs, and senit.ry wells) en                    Ral rel -rice poerety imooo, l-ol L  ore-thirl  of a-erego per c-pita
peececreges ur their respertire peprlcticus.  Ie en urbn aree            h public               personal Irruo3  of rho country.  Urban leoel is derived from  th. rurel
ftutrati  or  troadpost located not mere then 290 mestrs from  a hboonrep y b                  level with edjet-nr t for higher rose of living  in uIlln areas.
-treuaroed us beISg within I.e.one.le ances= of that hnsme.  Is caret           u;           tlatLe ted Pspuntiro Rlie  hAbsroiun  Poroy litr    teshl (percoet) -utter
sreuahoble enrese would leply that the housewife or meebhec  ef the household                  cud rurel - Perrent of poplultion (urban and rueal)  ho .e "ahr oluse
do not he-o to spend a dimyroprtierter  purt of tho day  is fotnhg s the
rucily's earer seeds.
A.rs  toloroete Oimpnsul (pmecsen  of eneulution) - tntel. usher, cud rural -
Nleber of people (total,  ebhe, and rural)  served by ereret  dtfuyselas
peurt.ieges of thelf r-epective P-peletious. lacreta disposal sup iLciude
the  eolleogies asd diapesmi. wirh or withat treteret. of b             ema umoress
ua edasse-eater by surer-bhore systemg or the use of pit priviet gnd sird-
1cr inmsellurDeus.
PoClvtIen p-oe    aniles - Pop.o-Ati   dividedby bpeber ttf praereisig physi-                                                         kc-noiri  rad Senial DatS  DiOtoien
oleu  .jolllfd fro   e sedirel etho1 et enin-rity lesel                                                                       Acsnrasalysis era Projections Departmet
opuelariae per Nammiug Peruse - Populatioa divided by  -siter of prs.tisi.g                                                                        Mey 1901
mXale asd female gradrete nurses  esaift-at scr-em, practitel scr-ee cod
sslsicg arefitefarf.



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA - UGANDA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980 a/ = US$280
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980  a/                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Million       %                 1967-71    1971-79       1980
GNP at Market Prices               3,536       100.0                  4.4         -1.7       -8.1
Gross Domestic Investment            120         3.4                  4.0        -13.0      135.5
Gross National Savings              -128        -3.6                  3.8
Current Account Balance             -248        -7.0
Export of Goods, NFS                 332         9.4                  0.4        -10.6      -22.4
Import of Goods, NFS                 572        16.2                 -0.1         -7.5       18.0
VALUE ADDED IN 1980 (At 1966 Prices) b/                            GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
US$ Million       %                                                    (USh Million)        (% of GDP)
1980/81      1980/81    1971/72
Agriculture                         424         51.7               Current Receipts                          3,186         3.1        13.2
Industry                             46          5.6               Current Expenditure                       9,712         9.3        13.2
Services                            350         42.7              Current Surplus                          -6,526          6.2          -
Total                             820        100.0              Capital Expenditure                       4,054          3.9         8.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1976      1977       1978        1979        1980
(UShMillion Outstanding End Period)
Money Supply                                   4,492    5,787       7,051       10,620      13,905
Bank Credit to Government                      4,790    5,522       7,199        9,198      14,848
Bank Credit to Other Sectors                   1,937    2,885       3,221        3,658       5,849
1976     1977       1978          1979        1980        1981
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                               17.0      13.7       14.0         14.1         13.3
General Price Index (1966 - 100) c/              601    1,133       1,546        4,894       5,474        10,058
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                             46.6      88.5       36.5        216.6        11.9          83.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    32.9      15.3       30.4         27.8        61.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   14.3      48.9       11.6         13.6        59.9
a/  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the World Bank Atlas (adjusting for the over-
valued exchange rate but not for any underrecording of "magendo" transactions).  The GNP at current prices in US dollars                    Oa
is derived by multiplying the per capita figure by population.  The gross investment rate is assumed to be the same as in                   4 
in the Uganda shilling estimates.  Given the balance of payments data from page 2, gross national savings is derived as a                   o
residual.
b/  Up-to-date figures on employment and productivity are unavailable.                                                                             C)
c/  Kampala low-income cost of living index.  Indices prior to 1979 may be understated as some controlled prices were used in
the calculation of the indices.  Indices for 1980 and 1981 are incomplete as cost-of-living data were not collected from
October 1980 to July 1981.  In particular, the increase in the index for 1980 is grossly understated, especially for the
food component.
not applicable
not available



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA - UGANDA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million   % d/
1978      1979       1980       1981
(US$ Million)                     Coffee                               329      95.4
Cotton                                9        2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS                         332        412        332        240          Tea                                   3        0.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                        -458       -391       -572       -470          Tobacco                               1        0.3
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                   -126         21       -240       -230          Other Exports                         3        1.0
Factor Services and Transfers (net) a/        -12        -25         -8          -            Sub-Total                         345      100.0
Balance on Current Account                   -138         -4       -248       -230          Adjustments e/                      -30       -8.6
Total                             315       91.4
Official Grants                                 8         27         87         80
Public M&LT Loans (net)                        38        104         84         40          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980 a/
Disbursements                               (66)      (145)      (131)      (150)                                                US$ Million
Amortization                               (-28)      (-41)      (-47)    (-110)
Other Items n.e.i. (net)                       41       -261        -89          -          Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                612 f/
Overall Balance of Payments                   -36       -134       -166       -110          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed              612
Gross Reserves (end year)                      84         56         22         22
Net Reserves (end year) b/                     34        -18        -85       -205          NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 g/
Payment Arrears (end year)                     86        168        267        257                                                          %
Petroleum Imports c/                           43         63        124        130          Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                  15.7
Petroleum Exports c/                            -          -          -          -          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                       .
Total Outstanding and Disbursed                15.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31, 1981)  (US$ Million)
IBRD f/   IDA
Annual Averages          End Period
1979    1980   Jan.-Sept.1981   Oct.1981              Outstanding and Disbursed             25         58
US$1.00 = USh                       7.4686  7.4242       39.8020         78.700             Undisbursed                             1        58
UShl.OO = US$                       0.1339  0.1347        0.0251           0.0127           Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed         26        116
a/ Excludes official grants.
b/ Net of IMF credit and other liabilities.
c/ Uganda imports all petroleum in the form of products and has no petroleum exports.
d/ % of unadjusted merchandise exports.
e/ Includes errors and omissions, and adjustments for valuation, coverage and timing.
f/ Includes Uganda's notional share (15%) of EAC loans.
g/ Debt service payments (amortization and interest) as a percentage of exports of goods and NFS.
not available.                                                                                                              March 16, 1982
Pl
FIH
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-29 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.    Year   Borrower          Purpose          Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and seven credits fully disbursed         8,40   48s03
983-UG  1980    Uganda    First Reconstruction
Program                     72.50a/     4.81
1077-UG  1981    Uganda    Technical Assistance            8.00b/     6.27
1110-UG  1981    Uganda    Water Supply
Engineering                  900b/      6.02
1228-UG  1982    Uganda    Phosphate
Engineering                  4.00b/     2.53
1248-UG  1982    Uganda    Industrial
Rehabilitation              35.00b/    33.98
1252-UG  1982    Uganda    Second Recon-
structilon Program          70.00b/    65.36
1328-UG  1983    Uganda    Agricultural
Rehabilitation c/           70.00b/    68.50
1329-UG  1983    Uganda    Third Education c/       _    32.00b/    31.39
Total                                    8.40  348.53      218.86
of which has been repaid               8.40   17.62
Total now outstanding                    0,00  330.91
Amount sold:                       8,32
of which has been repaid         8.32  0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA           0.00   330.91
Total undisbursed                        0.00   218.86    218.86
a/ Includes participation of US$17.5 million from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. In addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of $20.0 million
and a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million (approximately $2.6 million
equivalent) has been made available toward the reconstruction program.
b/ US Dollar amount at the time of negotiations.
c/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
Nil
C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount (less cancellation)
No.    Year  Borrower          Purpose             Bank a/   Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                            135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC       Second Harbours           35.00         0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC       Third Harbours            26.50         0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC      Third Telecommuni-
cations                32.50        0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB       Second Development
Finance                15.00        0.95
Total                                     244.80        2.10
of which has been repaid                 80.99
Total now outstanding                     163.81
Amount sold                      24.36
of which has been repaid       24.36      0.00
Total now held by Bank                    163.81
Total undisbursed                           2.10         2.10
a/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
There are currently eight projects under execution:
Credit No. 983-UG - Reconstruction Credit I: US$72.5 million
Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective Date: May 1, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Along with the IDA credit, which includes US$17.5 million
participation from the Government of the Netherlands, a US$20.0 million EEC
Special Action Credit, a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million and a loan of
US$5.0 million from the OPEC Fund have been made available to the
Government in support of its reconstruction program. The IDA credit was to
be released in two tranches. Changes in the Government and delays in
carrying out agreed financial and economic policy reforms caused delays in
the use of the credit. In June 1981, after the Government adopted policy
measures the Association required, it was agreed that the total amount of
the credit would be released. The closing date was postponed twice, the
second time to December 31, 1982 to allow for full disbursement of the
proceeds of the credits and the grant. The credit is now fully committed
and about US$68 million have been disbursed.
Credit No. 1077-UG - Technical Assistance Project: US$8.0
million Credit of January 21, 1981; Effective Date: March 26,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There has been continued progress in the implementation of this
line of credit. The first sub-projects have been completed and disburse-
ments have commenced. The credit is virtually fully committed.
Credit No. 1110-UG - Water Supply Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: October 5, 1981;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
A manpower and training study, and the feasibility studies on
expansion of water supply and sanitation activities in the seven towns were
completed in mid 1982. However, modifications have to be made to the
feasibility report to correspond to the probable availability of funds.
The construction of six staff houses and procurement for the supply of
vehicles, water meters and equipment are in progress. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) was established and efforts are under way to fill
two vacancies and to find a replacement for the late project coordinator.



-32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 1228-UG - Phosphate Engineering Project: US$4.0
million Credit of June 14, 1982; Effective Date: September 2,
1982; Closing Date: October 31, 1985
The progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are
substantially on schedule. A project team of three is working full time on
the project. The quality of the consultants, Bearden-Potter and SEMA, is
satisfactory. All covenants under the agreements are being complied with.
Credit No. 1248-UG - Industrial Rehabilitation Project: US$35,0
million Credit of June 29, 1982; Effective Date: September 15,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
Appraisal of subprojects for rehabilitation are proceeding on
schedule. Progress also continues in the programs for institutional
strengthening of the Uganda Development Bank and Uganda Commercial Bank.
Credit No. 1252-UG - Reconstruction Credit II: US$70.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1982; Effective Date: July 28, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Procurement has started but the process of importation remains
slow, mainly because of difficulties in arranging domestic credit for some
beneficiaries. Progress continues in the programs for institutional
strengthening supported by the credit; an agricultural secretariat and
external debt management offices are being established at the Central Bank,
while programs for strengthening the Ministries of Finance and Planning and
Economic Development are being discussed by the Association and the
Government. Technical assistance for the Central Tender Board has been
arranged, while technical assistance for the parastatal accounting study is
being negotiated.
Credit No. 1328-UG - Agricultural Rehabilitation Project:
US$70.0 million Credit of February 24, 1983; Effective Date:
June 9, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
This project is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1329-UG - Third Education Project\ US$32.0 million
Credit of February 24, 1983; Effective Date: June 9, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is not yet effective.



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community. Following the disintegration
of the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States
(Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) of undisbursed balance of loans to the East
African Community Corporations at October 1, 1977 was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 12, 1978 on the basis of recommendations
made in a report dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312).  Agreements in line
with those recommendations were subsequently signed by each of the Partner
States on January 25, 1978. A portion of the undisbursed balances under
two loans (Loan 674-EA - East African Railways Corporation (now fully
disbursed), and Loan 914-EA - East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation) was allocated to Uganda. Industrial projects in Uganda are
also eligible for financing under the ongoing East African Development Bank
Project (Loan 1204-EA). Progress on implementation of these projects is
summarized below. Although the closing date for Loan 914-EA has expired,
since the amount allocated to,and guaranteed by each Partner State is
clearly defined under the terms of the agreement of January 25, 1978,
disbursements continued to be made.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and about US$14.05 million has been
disbursed to date. The closing date has been postponed a third time to
June 30, 1983 to allow for completion of the project.
!



- 34 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
UGANDA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to the Association                     July 1982
(b)  Pre-appraisal mission                                  October 1982
(c)  Appraisal mission                                      January 1983
(d)  Completion of negotiations                               April 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                        September 1983
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions:
(a) the Government and UPTC will not incur capital expenditures for
the sector of more than US$5.0 million above the US$115 million
level planned for the 1982-87 program, without a financing and
implementation plan agreed with IDA (paragraph 43);
(b) within three months after the establishment of UPTC as a
full-fledged public utility, the Government and UPTC will enter
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (paragraph 52);
(c) UPTC will propose to IDA, by September 30, 1984, a method for
the annual revaluation of all fixed assets operated by it and
UPTC to revalue these assets annually, starting in 1984, in
accordance with methods agreed with IDA (paragraph 55);
(d) UPTC will maintain its annual rate of return on net revalued
telecommunications assets in operation at not less than 12% each
year (paragraph 56);
(e) UPTC will maintain the level of self-generated cash at at least
30% of each year's program investment costs (paragraph 56); and
(f) the Government will review with IDA, by June 30, 1985, UPTC's
tariffs and contribution of funds to Government, and agree on
terms of reference for a tariff study (paragraph 57).



________________________________________________________ _                   _                   _        8R1   16688
:        VI        K1 F,  .I6 *           - ;:                                                          s        u        D,       A                                 "                                        '  *
5OGAuNDA6-                                                                                                                                                                                             5~~*
PI                                                                                                                                                                                                                  K           L    NIV  -.Y /A
TA N                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'I I A 
4]                                                        7tp1  1:7                                                                                                                                                                                       Ks    <i>p                                                                          .. t  K8;  
TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK                                                                                            -
*            I kI -1
"    StqAœrnehl-,s     'dIVOOSn e¾hag                                                                                                                                                                       -                             
AS     VHF-UHF!,h- .1    !-    D'                                                                                                                                        Fa
M- -MA -p edods                                Z        A         I       R        E    'F1                                            1
I  AllT                            i-  '                                                                                                        I-
4r I,t,o,,A  0101                                                 V   7":     -------t                                                                      .,                                117                                       2 ,0 0 ; '   >   
9" /. -:                                                               >-                                               K                                                  { 
Elp-
Z    A     I   R    F ~ ~       -s        /                     AA    If- 
A                             4-~~~~~~~  A                                                                                ANAZfA                                        ---"---A
/AIAAAAlDAA)



