S0U     N      REDIT NUMBER 1367 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Posts and Telecommunications Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1367 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   g, 1983,
between REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (hereinaft r called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "UPTC" means the Uganda Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation established pursuant to Decree No. 15 of 1977 of the
Borrower to be responsible on a caretaker basis for the affairs
of the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation and
any successor to UPTC; and
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UPTC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,400,000).


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993, and ending April 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution ef the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through UPTC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, postal
and telecommunications practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
all necessary action within its powers so that by September 30,
1983, or such later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, UPTC shall have been established as a public
utility operating, inter alia, on the basis of the principle of
full cost recovery from tariffs for its operations and future
investments and with clearly defined responsibilities, including
the power to borrow funds both in Uganda and abroad for the
purpose of its operations.
(c) The Borrower shall make available to UPTC, all the
proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association provided, however, that as soon as UPTC is
established in the manner described in the preceding paragraph
(b), but in any event not later than three months thereafter,
the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to UPTC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and UPTC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall include repayment
of principal in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, interest at
a rate of 15% per annum and UPTC bearing the foreign exchange
risk, such terms to be made effective as of the Effective Date of
this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise a3ree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision therof.
(e) After UPTC is established in the manner described in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and not later than three months
after completion of the report of the financial consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall transfer all postal and telecommunication properties or
assets owned by it to UPTC in consideration for UPTC's obligatory
annual transfer of dividends to the Borrower, which shall not be
less than the Borrower's service payments on debts related to the
aforementioned   postal  and   telecommunications  properties   or
assets.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower and UPTC
in the implementation of the Project and the carrying out of Part
E.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to employ
project implementation, postal, transport and stores experts.
(b) In order to assist UPTC in the carrying out of Part D.3
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to employ tele-
communication training experts.
(c) In order to assist UPTC in carrying out Part E.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to employ financial
consultants.
(d) In order to assist the Finance and Accounting Depart-
ment of UPTC, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to employ three
financial experts, who shall take up their posts by not later
than September 30, 1984.
(e) In order to assist UPTC in carrying out Part E.3 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to employ digital network
planning and digital switching experts.
(f) In order to assist UPTC in carrying out Part E.4 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to employ urban telephone
network planning and design experts.


﻿- 5 -
(g) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants and experts referred to in the
preceding paragraphs of this Section shall be satisfactory to the
Association, and such consultants and experts shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
required for the prompt issuance to UPTC of such import licenses,
custom clearances and all other approvals required under the laws
of the Borrower to ensure the timely acquisition and importation
of the equipment and materials required for the execution of the
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes, or shall cause
UPTC to undertake, to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds  of  the   Credit  against  hazards   incident  to  the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause UPTC
to furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause UPTC to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;


﻿-6-
and (iii) shall furnish or cause UPTC to furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to De derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower or UPTC of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. Notwithstanding the generality of the pro-
visions of Section 3.05 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause UPTC to furnish semiannually beginning September 30,
1983, and thereafter on March 31, and September 30 of each year
until the Closing Date, a statement comparing actual performance
for such year and projected achievement for subsequent years
against the performance indicators set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause UPTC by not later
than December 31, 1984, to prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion, on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a
ten-year program for the development of rural telecommunications
and postal services within Uganda. In the preparation of such
program, the Borrower shall cause UPTC to use personnel whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. Not later than June 30, 1985, the Borrower
shall, in consultation with the Association: (i) review the


﻿-7-
tariffs charged by UPTC and UPTC's contribution to the Borrower's
resources; (ii) identify tariff adjustments which may be made
without further analysis; and (iii) establish terms of reference
for a detailed tariff study.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause UPTC to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations and finan-
cial condition, including without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause UPTC to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each financial year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors on the
separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of UPTC and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this Section, the
Borrower shall cause UPTC to furnish the financial statements and
reports and other information referred to in sub-paragraphs (ii)
and (iii) of that Section, by not later than twelve months after
the end of the 1983 financial year, ten months after the end of
the 1984 financial year and nine months after the end of the 1985
financial year.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause UPTC:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,


﻿- 8 -
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering,
postal and telecommunications practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management;
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
postal and telecommunications practices; and
(d) as from June 30, 1984, or such earlier date as the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement
shall have completed the preparation of the statements of affairs
of UPTC as at December 31, 1982, to use such statement of affairs
as the basis for the maintenance of UPTC's accounting records and
the preparation of the accounts and financial statements required
pursuant to the provisions of this Article.
Section 4.03. Until the Closing Date, the Borrower shall not
undertake, and shall take all necessary action not to permit UPTC
to undertake, any investments in the postal and telecommunica-
tions sector over and above those included in the Borrower's
investment program for UPTC estimated to cost in the aggregate
five million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent without prior agree-
ment with the Association on the financing and implementation
plan in respect of such investment or investments, as the case
may be. For the purposes of this Section, the "Borrower's invest-
ment program for UPTC" means the investment program agreed to
between the Borrower and the Association for the 1982-87 fiscal
years, which includes an aggregate proposed expenditure of
$114,600,000 equivalent (inclusive of price contingencies and 5%
physical contingencies for non-Project items).
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause UPTC:
(i) by no later than September 30, 1984 to prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Association for
their approval a method for the revaluation of
its fixed postal and telecommunication assets in
operation (as such term is defined in Section 4.05
of this Agreement) operated by UPTC;


﻿- 9 -
(ii) upon approval of such method by the Borrower
and the Association, to revalue the fixed postal
and telecommunication assets in operation as of
June 30, 1984, in accordance with such method of
revaluation;
(iii) thereafter to revalue annually, on the basis of
such methods, the fixed postal and telecommunica-
tions assets in operation as at the end of each
subsequent financial year;
(iv) to utilize only the revalued fixed telecommunica-
tions assets referred to in the preceding para-
graphs in the calculation of the annual rate of
return, as such term is defined in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary
steps as shall be necessary, including the establishment and
maintenance of tariffs for telecommunications services, to enable
UPTC to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 12% on
the revalued net fixed telecommunication assets in operation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the net telecommunications operating
income for the year in question to the average of
revalued net fixed telecommunications assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that
year;
(ii)  the term "net telecommunications operating income"
shall mean the difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from UPTC's
telecommunications services; and
(B)  the operating, maintenance and administration
expenses, taxes (if any) and adequate pro-
vision for depreciation on revalued fixed
assets in operation, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt, all related to
telecommunications services; and


﻿- 10 -
(iii) the term "revalued net fixed telecommunications
assets in operation" shall mean the gross book
value of fixed assets used by UPTC for telecom-
munications services, less the amount of accumu-
lated depreciation, as valued and revalued from
time to time in accordance with sound and consis-
tently maintained methods of valuation acceptable
to the Association.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree:
.) the Borrower shall, from time to time take, or cause to
be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation,
adjustment of the structure or levels of its postal and telecom-
munications tariffs) as shall be required for UPTC to produce,
for each financial year beginning from the 1983 fiscal year,
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of
the annual capital expenditures incurred in the posts and
telecommunications sector;
(b) two months before the end of each UPTC's financial
year, the Borrower or UPTC shall, on the basis of forecasts
prepared by the Borrower or UPTC and satisfactory to the
Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the
requirement set forth in the preceding paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such
review upon its completion;
(c) for the purposes of this Section:
(i)  the term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(1) the sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to postal and telecommunications
operations, consumer deposits and cash consu-
mer contributions in aid of construction, net
non-operating income and any reduction in
non-cash working capital, and
(2) the   sum  of  all  expenses  of  postal  and
telecommunications   operations,    including
maintenance  and   administration  (excluding
depreciation  and  other non-cash   operating


﻿- 11 -
charges), interest and other charges on debt
(excluding interest financed under a loan
contract), repayment of loans (including
sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends
and other cash distributions of surplus,
increase in net working capital other than
cash, and any other cash outflows other than
cash expenditures related to postal and tele-
communications operations, and
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed or capital
assets, including interest charged to construc-
tion, related to postal and telecommunications
operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the disso-
lution or disestablishment of UPTC, as established in the manner
set forth in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action in connection
with the assets or liabilities of the East African Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation or the External Telecommunication
Company Limited which, in the Association's reasonable opinion,
is inconsistent with the Letter Agreement dated January 25, 1978,
among the Borrower, the Republic of Kenya, the United Republic of
Tanzania and the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the contracts between UPTC and the consultants selected
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement
shall have been executed;
(b) the Borrower or UPTC shall have entered into agrecments
with the International Telecommunications Union and the Universal
Postal Union for the employment of the experts referred to in
Section 3.02 (a), (b), (e) and (f) of this Agreement; and
(c) the Borrower shall have promulgated revised interna-
tional tari.fs satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date,  Octo-Ow-i 13( 1993 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINSEC                              61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By         7Att.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          6A9& 57         &r
Regional VCce President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Telecommunications       10,390,000          100% of foreign
equipment, materials                        expenditures,
and spare parts                             100% of local ex-
under Parts A,                              penditures (ex-
D and F of the                              factory cost)
Project                                     and 75% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2) Vehicles, equip-          3,620,000          100% of foreign
ment, machinery,                            expenditures,
tools, spare parts,                         100% of local ex-
postal materials                            penditures (ex-
and other mate-                             factory cost) and
rials under Parts                          75% of local
B, C, D and F                               expenditures for
of the Project                             other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'              3,620,000          100% of foreign
services,                                  expenditures
technical
assistance and
training
(4) Unallocated               2,770,000
TOTAL              20,400,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount oi the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which, in the opinion of the
Association, are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 16 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to rehabilitate the telecommunica-
tions and postal services in Uganda and is part of the Borrower's
investment program for UPTC for the years 1982-87. It includes
the following parts:
Part A:   Telecommunications Services
1.   Installation of 2 new 1,000 line container telephone ex-
changes, including ancillary equipment, such as manual switch-
board, air conditioning and a power plant.
2.   Rehabilitation  and   extension  of  the  existing   crossbar
exchanges in Jinja, Entebbe, Mengo, Fort Portal, Kakira and
Lugazi, including the provision of common equipment and trunk
terminations and extension of the Entebbe exchange by 1,000
lines, Kakira by 200 lines and Lugazi by 200 lines.
3.   Rehabilitation of the existing Pentaconta telex exchange,
including the provision of additional printed circuit cards for
the existing Nedix telex exchange and national and international
VFT systems.
4.   Rehabilitation of the subscriber distribution network, in-
cluding the provision of related supplies and the connection of
about 100 rural public call office telephones.
5.   Rehabilitation and construction of open wire overhead routes
for a two-year period.
6.   Provision of telephone instruments, teleprinters and related
material for replacements and new subscribers' installations over
a two year period.
7.   Provision of rural radio equipment, including about 100
radio call units, manual switchboards and point-to-point communi-
cation units.
8.   Completion of a pole     impregnation plant, including    the
supply of miscellaneous tools and equipment.
9.   Replacement of air conditioning equipment for the exchanges
at Kampala Telephone House, installation of air conditioning


﻿- 18 -
equipment at Mengo ad rehabilitation of air conditioning equip-
ment in Jinja, Entebbe, Kakira and Lugazi.
Part B:   Postal Services
Acquisition of post office keys and locks, mail bags, safes
and armored steel, scales of various types, office machines and
post offices and letter posting boxes.
Part C:   Vehicles and Equipment
1.   Acquisition of about 3 heavy lorries, 40 vans, 15 four-
wheel drive vehicles, 15 five-seater small cars, three 22-
seater minibuses, and one 60-seater bus, 30 motorcycles and
300 cycles.
2.   Acquisition of machinery and tools for the rehabilitation
and modernization of UPTC's mechanical workshop, including
hydraulic jacks, arc welding machine, air compressors, tire
inflation rotary gauges, vulcanizer, wheel balancers and battery
chargers.
3.   Acquisition of a single color small offset printer and
related material for UPTC's printing shop and an ammonia printing
machine and associated material for UPTC's drawing office.
Part D:   Training
1.   Completion  of  the  construction  of  the Nakawa    training
school.
2.   Equipping of the workshop and laboratories of the Nakawa
training school.
3.   Formulation and introduction of comprehensive training in
the telecommunications and postal fields and upgrading or devel-
opment of programs fitting UPTC's job requirement and moderniza-
tion of teaching methods and introduction of instruction in new
telecommunications technology.
Part E:   Technical Assistance
1.   Preparation of a statement of affairs for UPTC, evaluation
of the fixed assets, stores and accounts receivable of the posts
and telecommunications sector, establishment of a computerized
accounting and stores system, a management information system,


﻿- 19 -
procedures for budget preparation and cost analysis, a method-
ology for tariff setting and determination and carrying out of a
training program for UPTC's financial staff.
2.   Organization and management of supplies, stores, transport
and of UPTC's mechanical workshop.
3.   Planning of an integrated digital telecommunications system
for Uganda and preparation of related projects.
4.   Preparation of a project to develop the urban cable network.
Part F:   Recurrent Imports (two-year consumption)
1.   Acquisition of spare parts for step-by-step and crossbar
telephone exchanges and for the international telephone exchange.
2.   Acquisition of spare parts for radio, multiplex carrier and
line equipment.
3.   Acquisition of spare parts for telephone sets and tele-
printers.
4.   Acquisition of creosote oil for the pole plant.
5.   Acquisition of tools for maintenance, installations and con-
struction and for the telecommunications repair center.
6.   Acquisition   of  money   orders,  aerogrammes  and   various
registered envelopes, date stamps, stamp albums, stationery and
sundry materials.
7.   Acquisition of tools for UPTC's building branch.
8.   Acquisition of spare parts for about 150 existing vehicles,
and spare parts for the new vehicles to be provided under the
Project.
9.   Acquisition of about 1,000 assorted tires with tubes and
about 200 assorted batteries.
10. Acquisition of miscellaneous purchases for UPTC's printing
shop and drawing office.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, as the case may be,
a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Goods shall be bulked together in bidding packages to the
maximum extent practicable for the purposes of bidding and
procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Uganda may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Uganda if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Uganda equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 22 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped in bidding pack-
ages estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more shall be pro-
cured through limited international tendering after obtaining
quotations from a group of potential suppliers broad enough,
under the circumstances, to assure competitive prices provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of such contracts shall not
exceed $3,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for the supply and installation of proprietary
goods shall be procured on a negotiated basis from the original
manufacturers or authorized representatives, on terms satis-
factory to the Association provided, however, that the aggregate
amount of such contracts shall not exceed $2,600,000 equivalent.
3.   Vehicles shall be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding   locally  advertised   in   accordance  with   procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 23 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Performance Indicators
1983     1984     1985    1986     1987
Telephone lines         2,145   2,485    5,290    5,350    7,350
added
Telex lines                -      140      140      300     500
added
% of lines out           18%      10%       7%       6%       5%
of order
(year end)
% repaired in            10%       30%     60%      80%     80%
one week
Long distance            50%       58%     65%      75%     75%
effective calls
Telecommunications        120      110      95       80       67
staff per 1000
telephone lines
Months of billing
delay
at year end:
Telephone                2         2       1        1       1
Telex                    2         2       1        1        1
Rate of return on         13        13      14       15      16
net revalued
assets
Total annual cost         67        71      74       77      84
before
depreciation
per working tele-
phone line
(including infla-
tion) (thousand
U SH)


﻿- 25 -
Performance Indicators
1983      1984    1985     1986     1987
Receivables out-
standing as %
of annual revenues
Government             40       35      25       17       17
Private                20        17      17      17       17
Self generated cash        36       32      57       44       45
as % of annual
investment program


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983R.
FOR SECRETARY


