Document ofom o
The World Bank                   Ut Cy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3026-N
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DE
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INSTITUTO NICARAGUENSE DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCAN'
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
MANAGUA WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
April 14, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Cordoba (¢)
US$1.00        =  010.00
01.00          =  US$0.10
01 million     =  US$100,000
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 in      =  inch                     =  2.54 centimeters
1 m       =  mile                      = 1.609 kilometers
1 M gal   =  million gallons          =  3.785 cubic meters
1 Mgd     =  million gallons per day =  4.38 liters per second
1 manzana                =  0.699 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS
AHM      =  Environmental Health Agency
(Area Higiene del Medio)
CABEI    =  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
DENACAL  =  Water and Sewerage Company
(Departamento Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
EAM      =  Water Company of Managua
(Empresa Aguadora de Managua)
FIR      =  International Reconstruction Fund
(Fondo Internacional para la Reconstruccion)
IDB      =  Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INAA     =  Nicaraguan Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
IRENA    =  Institute of Natural Resource
(Instituto de Recursos Naturales y del Ambiente)
MH       =  Ministry of Health
PAHO     =  Pan American Health Organization
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
MANAGUA WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(INAA)
Guarantor:           Republic of Nicaragua
Amount:              US$3.7 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years including 5 years of grace at 9.6%
interest per annum.
Project
Description:         The project would lay the basis for the expansion of
Managua's water supply system to meet the demand of
future population. It would also help increase the
efficiency of INAA. The six proposed components of
the project are:
(i)  preparation of plans, technical specifications
and contract documents for the construction of
the Tisma water supply scheme, which would include
about 37 wells, a pumping station, about 25 km of
transmission main, and water storage;
(ii) preparation of a detailed water demand study for
Managua;
(iii)  development of a distribution system master plan
for Managua and identification of a first stage
distribution improvement program necessary to
adequately distribute the water from the Tisma
scheme;
(iv) preparation of plans, technical specifications and
contract documents for the construction of the
first stage distribution improvements;
(v)  repair of production meters, pumping station instru-
mentation and reservoir level control valves; and
(vi) provision of technical assistance for organization
and management to help INAA fully integrate its
two predecessor organizations into a single effi-
ciently run entity and to complete a tariff study.
The growth rate of future demand for water in Managua
is not clear at present, because of changes brought about
by the civil war and the Government's proposed decentral-
ization policy. There is a risk that final designs of the
project may require revision prior to construction if
present demand forecasts do not materialize. The project
therefore includes a detailed water demand study for
Managua.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11. -
Estimated Cost:
IJS$ million equivalent
Local    Foreign    Total
Final designs                                           0.28       1.52       1.80
Demand forecast and distribution studies                0.04       0.26       0.30
Repairs.of water meters, valves and instruments         0.21       0.65       0.86
Project management                                      0.07         -        0.07
Organization and management technical assistance    0.05           0.45       0.50
Base cost                                           0.65      2.88       3.53
Physical contingencies                                  0.10       0.42       0.52
Price contingencies                                     0.48       0.53       1.01
Total project cost                                  1.23      3.83       5.06
Financi.ng Plan:
Bank                                     3.70       3.70
IDB                             -        0.13      0.13
INAA                          1.23         -       1.23
Total                       1.23       3.83      5.06
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million equivalent
Bank FY 1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                      1.00    1.40    1.00    0.30
Cumulative                  1.00    2.40    3.40    3.70
Economi.c Rate of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report:           This is a combined President's/Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVFLOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECtTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO INSTITUTO NICARAGUENSE
DE ACUEDUCTOS Y ALCANTARILLADOS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARACUA
FOR A MANAGUA WTATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$3.7 million to the Instituto Nicaraguense
de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (INAA) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Nicaragua for a Managua Water Supply Engineering Project.  The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace with an interest rate of
9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The last Bank economic report, "Memorandum on Recent Economic
Developments and Prospects of Nicaragua" (2061-NI), was circulated to the
Board in June 1978. One loan and two credits were presented to the Board in
December 1979, and a credit for a preinvestment fund in December 1980. The
documents for these emergency loans and credits contained brief analyses of
the conditions that Nicaragua faced after the July 1979 revolution and an
appraisal of subsequent economic performance and prospects for the short and
long term following visits by Bank staff. An economic mission visited Nicaragua
in November 1980. Its preliminary conclusions--which are reflected in this
President's Report and Annexes--were discussed with Government officials
extensively in February 1981. The discussion of the completed draft report is
scheduled for May/June; circulation to the Board is likely during the summer.
3.        Nicaragua is a country rich in land resources.  Agriculture represents
about one-quarter of GDP, employs nearly half of the labor force and generates
about 70% of merchandise exports. The country is divided into three distinct
agricultural areas. The Pacific Zone, where about 60% of the nation's 2.5
million people live, is characterized by two types of farming--a great number
of small farms grow basic grains with traditional technology, while a few
large plantations use modern technology and specialize in cotton and sugarcane;
the mountainous Central District is devoted primarily to the production of
coffee and livestock; and the extensive, underpopulated Atlantic plain holds a
largely unutilized potential for forestry, tree crops and livestock.
4.        The small, open economy has had a record of high economic growth
(nearly 6% per year in the three decades prior to 1975) and very low rates of
inflation prior to 1972. Population has been increasing at an annual rate of
about 3%. Income growth has basically been the result of the expansion and the
1/   The text of Part I of this report is identical to that of Part I of the
President's Report on a Basic Education Project, submitted concurrently to
the Board.



- 2 -
adoption of modern methods of production for commodity exports--primarily
coffee, cotton, beef, sugar, and shrimp--and rapid industrialization.
Industry has been growing in importance; before the recent war the industrial
sector represented approximately 27% of GDP. Exports of manufactured goods,
mainly to the Central American Common Market, were about a quarter of total
exports.
5.         This substantial growth was not accompanied by parallel social
development. Life expectancy and adult literacy rates were among the lowest
in Central and South America. The limited availability of key public services,
such as education and health, reflected in part budgetary stringency dictated
by insufficient revenues.
6.         The armed struggle that preceded the establishment of the Government
of National Reconstruction in July 1979, was extremely costly. More than
30,000 people lost their lives, and many more fled the country.  While many
have returned, some highly skilled people have remained abroad. In addition,
the war seriously damaged the nation's industrial productive capacity and had
disastrous effects on the financial system. The direct damage to physical
structures, equipment and inventories was estimated at more than US$250 million.
The i-light of capital prior to and during the conflict exceeded half a billion
dollars, and many banks and industrial and commercial enterprises became
insol-vent.
7.         The new Government embarked simultaneously on the tasks of economic
recovery and social transformation. The reorganized Government bureaucracy,
although largely inexperienced, is committed to improving the living condi-
tions of the population and to increasing production. The new regime has
indicated that it will maintain a mixed economy in which the public sector
will not only be directly involved in the regulation of the economic process
and exert a sizeable degree of control over the allocation of investment,
but will also assume responsibility for many directly productive activities.
In addition to cofiscating land holdings and industrial and commercial enter-
prises, mainly those of the Somoza family, the Government has nationalized the
banking system, the insurance companies, foreign trade, and the mining sector.
The public sector's direct participation in agricultural production is about
18%, in manufacturing 25%, and in the service sectors more than 50%. The total
share of the public sector in the country's GDP has risen from 15 to 40%.
8.         The government machinery has been extensively reorganized:  a number
of new ministries have been created, new institutions have been developed; and
practically all Government and autonomous public agencies have undergone
reorganization. In particular, the financial system has been totally restruc-
tured and ministries have been established to handle the nationalized portions
of thie agricultural, industrial and trade sectors. The Government is now
headed by a three member Junta of National Reconstruction that is backed by
the Directorate of the Sandinista Front of National Liberation. There is also
a Council of State, where business and professional groups have some represen-
tation. Efforts have been made to strengthen the planning process, and the
planning council has been raised to the ministerial level. An emergency



- 3 -
program was adopted as soon as the war ended; a formal program of economic
reactivation was drafted for 1980; and an economic plan of "austerity and
efficiency" was prepared for the year 1981. A continued strong investment
recovery; an even stronger export recovery and severe austerity (wage
restraints, lower fiscal deficits) are expected to lead to a GDP growth
of 18 percent. If the plan is successful, the 1981 GDP would equal that of
1978 in real terms.
The Nicaraguan Economy During the First Year and a Half of the New Regime
9.        The struggle which culminated in the toppling of the Somoza regime
left Nicaragua with a highly damaged productive apparatus. Manufacturing
production declined by nearly one-third in 1979 as a result of the destruction
of factories and inventories and the loss of managerial personnel; during the
first half of the year, private investment shrank to a minimum, and construc-
tion nearly stopped. Agricultural production was seriously affected. The
slaughter of immature beef cattle and the smuggling of herds out of the country
severely compromised beef production for the coming years. Urban unemployment
and underemployment reached alarming levels (the combined rate was more than
30%). Real GDP dropped by more than 25% in 1979, in addition to the decline
of 7% it had suffered in 1978. The cumulative income forgone from 1977 through
1980 surpassed two billion dollars when measured against an historic trend line.
10.       The drop in exports was most significant.  Exports constitute
one-third of GDP, and are the chief driving force of the Nicaraguan economy.
Although export revenues derived from the 1978/79 crop were fairly high, much
of the receipts left the country as capital flight. The 1979/80 agricultural
season was disrupted by the war. Farmers failed to plant cotton, and produc-
tion and exports of basic grains, coffee, sugar and beef dropped substantially
as well. Although high international prices of sugar and cotton offset
some of the losses in export volume, total export receipts from goods and
services decreased by US$220 million between 1978 and 1980--in real terms a
drop of about 48%.
11.       Given the drastic drop in domestic supply and conditions of financial
insolvency, both on the national and international fronts, the new Government
faced a very difficult recovery period. Efforts were made to increase domestic
supply, but an expansionary monetary and fiscal policy contributed to the
creation of excess demand. Much of the shortfall in production was compensated
for through an increase in imports which, along with price controls, kept
inflation from being explosive. The consumer price index rose only 35 percent
in 1980, compared to 70 percent in 1979. In 1981 it is expected to rise by
25 percent.
12.       The rise in imports was made possible by a generous inflow of external
financing. During the first year and a half following the war, international
organizations and a number of individual countries provided tNicaragua with
substantial amounts of external assistance. Total commitments of loans and
trade credits amounted to about US$950 million; total disbursements from these
and prior loans were US$650 million. The Bank Group committed US$57 million
in new loans (of which US$37 million was IDA), the IDB committed US$163
million, and AID US$88 million. Because of prior, large commercial borrowings
and the recent diversity of aid sources, the Bank Group's exposure is low; by



-4-
-he end of 1979 the Bank Group was owed just under 10 percent of the public,
<isbursed external debt. Donations in cash and goods over the first year and
a half amounted to about US$200 million more (excluding considerable direct
technical assistance).
13.       During 1980, fiscal revenues were high, mainly as a result of new
taxes and more efficient collection. Nevertheless, overall fiscal policy was
expansionary. Although capital expenditures were lower than budgeted, current
expenditures amounted to 2.8 times those of 1978, greatly surpassing current
revenues.  The overall deficit of the Central Government rose from US$105 million
in 1979 to more than US$250 million in 1980, about 65% of total revenues and
12% of GDP. Less than half of this deficit was covered by external financing.
Bank credit expansion in 1980 was substantial. Most of the private sector
credit was channelled towards short-term loans, but more than two-thirds of
the expanded credit was for the public sector.
14.       Following the typical pattern of small, open economies, this large
increase in both Government deficit and domestic credit quickly leaked out
into imports, particularly from Central America. Contrary to Government
expecrations, import growth has not resulted from the demand for inputs for
increased production, but from the rapid recovery of consumption and the
rebuilding of stocks. The value of capital goods imports had not quite
recovered to 1978 levels; on the other hand, imports of fuel and food were
more than twice as high. The resource gap was US$458 million, a total that
represents over one fifth of GDP and was almost equal to the total exports of
goods and services. In spite of the strong inflow of grants and long-term
external financing, net reserves dropped by about US$200 million in 1980 to
about minus US$400 million. Gross reserves were about US$120 million, equal
to on:Ly one month's import bill.
15.       In sum, the policy followed has been one of satisfying the basic
needs of the population, trying to restore real consumption levels which had
dropped sharply in 1979, restocking inventories and providing employment, or
at least marginal work, for the urban unemployed through the rapid expansion
of credit, commercial activities and the more than doubling of the government sector.
The course chosen has given the Government, and the country itself, a breathing
spell following a very trying war. Had imports been restrained, domestic
scarcities would have been more apparent and inflation would probably have
accelerated. There has, however, been a high cost associated with this less
painful transition, namely, the build up of a substantial trade deficit.
Prospects for 1981
16.       Basic grain production has increased substantially in the 1980/81
crop year, and there is a good possibility that domestic consumption needs
will be satisfied to a large degree. The prospects for agricultural commodity
exports are fair. The value of total exports in current terms for 1981 is
projected to be more than one-quarter higher than in 1980. However, they
are expected to be about 10 percent below the record exports of 1978. The
1980/81 coffee crop will probably be about 15% below the record 1978/79 crop
and a drop in world coffee prices would further reduce coffee export earnings.
Sugar exports are favored by high world prices. Beef production and exports,
however, are greatly depressed. The cotton area planted, a crucial variable
in the country's economic recovery process, was approximately 140,000 manzanas,
including 21,000 now owned by the Government. Although this represents nearly



- 5 -
a tripling of the area planted in 1979, it is less than half of the peak area
planted before the war. The private sector is hesitant to expand cotton
production, particularly in the lower-yield lands, as labor shortages during
harvest season have caused losses in terms of output and product quality. The
Government plans to limit the future area under cotton to approximately
200,000 manzanas.
17.        The prospects for the industrial sector in 1981 are only fair.
Although it is expected that production in most of the plants under Government
control will surpass 1978 levels, the recovery of private industry continues
to be slow, and exports to Central America have halved.  Confidence appears
insufficient to encourage large and medium size private entrepreneurs to
expand production. Prospects for the mining sector--now nationalized--are,
however, very promising. Gold is becoming a major export commodity for
Nicaragua. Its value may exceed US$35 million in 1981.
18.        Because of the untenability of the 1980 balance of payments deficits,
a stronger effort has been made to cut imports. The expected cuts will come
in food and other nondurable consumer goods, and possibly in intermediate goods
where the restocking needs of 1980 will not be required. On the other hand,
imports of fuel and particularly of capital goods will probably increase.
Nevertheless, even if the potential for export recovery is fully realized,
the balance of payments picture will continue to be delicate for some time.
As production recovers, imports of capital goods should rise sharply. The
required net external capital flows of medium and long term loans during the
next few years will continue to be high--over a quarter of a billion dollars per
year. Two important determinant of the future net flow of capital will be the
final arrangements reached by the Government with respect to the full resched-
uling of external debt and the aid programs of major bilateral donors.
Longer-Term Prospects
19.        Nicaragua is favored by a number of conditions conducive to a high
rate of economic growth: the country has a low population density; the
available land resources are of good quality and plentiful--in fact, there
exists much undeveloped frontier land; the core of the transport infrastructure
network is well established; and commodity exports have been more diversified
than those of most of the other Central American countries. In addition,
the Government is giving high priority to productive sectors and to projects
that will generate foreign exchange. It also strongly favors rural development,
and the successful nationwide literacy program is expected to broaden the
long-term development potential of the country.
20.        At the same time there are a number of obstacles to the attainment
of a higher growth path. First and foremost, there is the havoc caused by the
war. Its consequences will linger for a number of years. The tabulated
foreign debt inherited from the last administration is large; at the end of
1979 total long and medium term public debt was US$1.1 billion (not including
debt arrears), or twice the level of exports--about 80% of GDP. Debt service
in 1981 will be about 27 percent of export earnings in spite of a favorable
rescheduling of much commercial debt that defers amortization and some interest
obligation. The difference in interest rates between 7 percent and LIBOR
will be capitalized for a few years. One of the more serious obstacles to



-6-
Nicaragua's rapid and sustained economic growth is the prevailing, and antici-
pated, low rate of fixed capital formation. 1/ A high rate of GDP growth was
possible in 1980 and will probably be repeated in 1981, only because production
was recovering from the low level at which it had fallen at the end of thc
civil war. In subsequent years, however, it will be necessary to raise both
the share of total investment to GDP as well as that pertaining to investment
in directly productive activities. Much of the problem lies in the low rate
of private investment. Public investment is already high, more than 10 percent
of GDP. Private investment must at least equal this level if satisfactory
growth rates of GDP are to be attained. Another challenge is the energy
sector. The country will depend for a number of years on costly, imported
fossil fuel as a principal source of electrical energy. Petroleum imports now
represent about one-fifth of total goods imports. Hydroelectric power develop-
ment has lagged in Nicaragua; geothermal exploitation is just beginning, and
the biomass potential has not yet been ascertained.
21.       Perhaps the greatest challenge will be the ability of the Government
to Lead the country through the prolonged, difficult recovery period.  The
policy of restoring past levels of real consumption through monetary and
fiscal expansion and deficits in the current account must be substituted by
one of growing public and private investment, increased revenues from public
enterprises, high productivity, and all this within the framework of social
transformation to which the Government is committed.  In the longer term, with
good economic management, Nicaragua could attain the rapid growth rates it has
reached in the past and at the same time gradually succeed in achieving its
more pressing social goals.
22.       As a consequence of the civil war, Nicaragua's per capita income
has dropped below the IDA eligibility threshold. The country has, and is
likely to have for a number of years, serious balance of payments problems.
Nevertheless, it has confronted social, economic, and financial challenges
in a determined manner. In its recent dialogue with the Government the Bank
found agreement on policies needed to counteract the present balance of
payments crisis. The Government is giving highest investment priority to
the productive sectors and to projects that generate foreign exchange. Major
exceptions are selected social projects that have immediate educational and
hea:Lth benefits, especially for the rural poor. Fiscal revenues are expected
to be higher in 1981 as a percent of GDP than the already high 1980 level.
Credit expansion, which was explosive until mid-1980, has decelerated. The
authorities are placing restrictions on imports of luxury goods. Furthermore,
the Government has taken a responsible attitude with respect to its debt
service obligations, it immediately recognized its public external debt and is
meeling its IBRD/IDA debt service. It has successfully rescheduled its past
public debt with private foreign banks and is presently negotiating the debt
of the recently nationalized banks and economic enterprises, as well as
debt:s with some bilateral donors. It is on the basis of the recent dialogue,
Government agreement on the need for immediate action to constrain demand
1/   Annex I, page 4 shows gross investment at 20% of GDP for 1980.  This,
however, is caused by a major restocking of inventories which accounts
for about 4.4% of GDP.



-7-
and reorient public expenditures, and the authorities' recent actions outlined
above, that Nicaragua is considered creditworthy for some IBRD lending,
although most lending should continue to be on very concessional terms.
Indeed, concessionary assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component
of individual projects will be needed to ease the transition period until
the economy has recovered from the civil war, the pro,buticvity of its capital
stock has regained normal levels, and Nicaraguia's traditional creditworthiness
has been fully re-established.
PART II - BANK GROUP OP EArAT)S I/
23.       Nicaraguta go date has received twenty-five Bank loans and five IDA
credits for a total of US$241.9 million.  Of these five were for agriculture,
five for transportation, nine for electric power, four for water supply
including one for sewerage, two for education, four to finance earthquake and
civil war reconstruction and one to finance preinvestment studies. So far
twenty-three projects have been completed. Performance audit reports have
been issued for a port project, for an agricultural credit Project and for
the second Managua Water Supply Project. The report on the water supply
project is summarized in paragraph 38 below. The audit report for the port
project (Ln. 879-NI and 879-1-NI) indicates that the project was success-
fully implemented, but with substantial modifications, a two year delay and a
cost increase of about 260%. However, the project's justification was largely
unaffected, because of an increase in traffic and greater than expected unit
benefits. The audit on the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 943-NI) reports
that after initial delays, because of a beef price slump and cheaper, com-
peting funds, the project subsequently accelerated and funds were committed
and disbursed on schedule. Project objectives were generally achieved, inter
alia, the project helped increase meat production. The report also points out
however that the beneficiaries of the subloans were generally much larger than
had been planned. Annex II contains a summary statement on Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of February 28, 1981 and a note on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
24.       Because of major fiscal difficulties during 1978 and the disruptive
effects of the revolutionary war in the latter part of 1978 and in most of 1979,
the Bank did n(ot lelnd io Nicaragua between early 1978 and the end of 1979.  In
mid 1979 it was concluded that meaningful project activities and adequate
supervision of ongoing projects were no longer possible. Therefore, the Board
was informed on July 16 (A 79-192) that no further disbursements on existing
loans and credits would be made. The Government of Nicaragua was subsequently
replaced by a Junta of National Reconstruction. The Junta requested emergency
assistance from the international community to facilitate recovery from the
economic disaster caused by the war as well as by large outflows of capital.
The Bank responded to this Government request by restructuring projects on
which substantial balances remained undisbursed and by making them more
responsive to emergency needs. Also an emergency loan/credit package was
extended for agricultural and industrial rehabilitation and for urban recon-
struction. The restructuring of projects was completed in October 1979, at
1/   Part II is similar to Part II of the President's Report on a Basic
Education Project submitted concurrently to the Board.



wh:Lch time the suspension of disbursements was rescinded.  The emergency
operations were signed in January 1980. As described in Annex II, implementa-
tion of the restructured and emergency projects is progressing well.
25.       In the past, the objectives of the Bank/IDA program in Nicaragua
have been (a) to support the Government's export diversification efforts
(b) to help build viable institutions in key sectors, such as water supply
and electric power and (c) to help spread the benefit of growth to more people
through lending for projects such as education, rural sanitation, agriculture
and. water supply. The Bank Group also assisted in the reconstruction effort
following the devastating earthquake of 1972.
26.       Because of the Government's continuing preoccupation with emergency
reconstruction requirements, it has not yet been possible to develop a long-
term lending program for the Bank Group. However, a new investment program
for the expanded public sector was recently completed. The Bank was invited
for programming discussions in August of last year. The objective of these
discussions was to develop a tentative program of assistance for the next
three years. This program is summarized in para. 27 below. Its composition
and priorities were confirmed by the investment program just completed. In
support of this program the Bank Group lending activities to Nicaragua are
being closely coordinated with donors such as the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), the
UTnited States Agency for International Development (USAID) and other bilateral
agencies.
27.       In view of the disruptions created by the revolutionary war, one
of the most urgent requirements of the Nicaraguan economy has been the estab-
lishment of a mechanism to generate well designed, high priority projects.
The Preinvestment Fund Project, signed December 18, 1980, will assist in
meeting this requirement. The proposed project is also expected to
assist in the preparation of a high priority infrastructure project. The rural
development office for Central America, for which the Bank is serving as
executing agency, is expected to provide assistance in the identification and
preparation of rural development projects. The Government has also requested
ass-lstance for the following projects: (a) rural primary education including
adult literacy, a component that would reinforce and institutionalize the
results of the recently completed literacy campaign; (b) a continuation of
the agricultural/industrial rehabilitation program, which was part of the
emergency package approved in December 1979; (c) infrastructure development
projects for water supply and electric power (geothermal), where the Bank has
worked in the past; (d) urban projects to upgrade low-income neighborhoods,
improve municipal finances and implement a low-cost housing program; and
(e) in addition to an immediate repeater project for industrial rehabilitation,
assistance in agriculture, particularly for the development of tree crops
(oil, and coco palm).
28.       IFC's first operation in Nicaragua involved a FY1968 loan and equity
investment of US$1 million and US$1.07 million, respectively, in a textile
plant, Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A. IFC's equity participation was
sold in FY1974 to local shareholders. In FY76 IFC agreed to provide US$6.5
million in long-term debt to Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd., a sugar mill, to
help expand its production capacity and develop new cane fields. Due to



- 9 -
subsequent cancellation of part of the project by Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd.,
that commitment was subsequently reduced to US$4 million. Also in FY76, IFC
made a loan and equity investment of US$700,000 and US$200,000, respectively,
to help finance the construction of the Camino Real Hotel. Of the projects
financed by IFC, three suffered some damage, but were not destroyed, during the
civil war. Four IFC missions visited Nicaragua during 1980. Arrangements
for rescheduling IFC's loans are still being discussed and are expected to
be completed shortly.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
29.       At the end of 1979, 74% of Nicaragua's urban population had house
connections or easy access to public standpipes for water and 35% had sewerage
connections, while 11% of the rural population had access to potable water.
The most recent statistics (1977) show that 57% of the urban population and
42% of the rural population were using latrines. INAA is collecting data to
determine the percentage of the urban and rural populations currently using
latrines. Despite improvements in Nicaragua's water supply systems in the
period 1966-75, serious health problems persist. The Ministry of Public
Health estimated that 42% of all reported communicable diseases and 17% of all
deaths in 1976 (most recent year for which information is available) could be
attributed to unsafe water and poor sanitation. In 1978, Nicaragua had an
infant mortality rate of 37 per thousand births and life expectancy was 55
years; 1978 statistics for middle income Latin American and Caribbean countries
show an infant mortality rate of 66.5 per thousand births and a life expectancy
of 63.1 years (Annex I).
3o.       The 1985 service level goal set by INAA is to provide access to safe
potable water to 50% of the rural population and slightly increasing to 75% the
urban population served by house connections or public standpipes. The 1985
target for sewerage connections is to service 50% of the urban population.
Formulation of rural latrine service goals has not been completed. The above
goals must be considered tentative, as the Ministry of Planning has not yet
established a medium-term development plan and investment program for the sector.
Sector Organization
31.       Public water and sewerage services in Nicaragua are provided by INAA
and the Ministry of Health (MH). Several municipalities and large industrial
users have their own water systems. The municipal systems are being incor-
porated into INAA.
32.       INAA was created by the new Government in 1979 through the merger of
the Empresa Aguadora de Managua (EAM) and the Departamento Nacional de Acueductos
y Alcantarillados (DENACAL). Prior to the merger, EAM was a Government-owned
utility responsible for Managua's water supply and distribution, and DENACAL
was the Government agency, under the Ministry of Public Health, in charge of
other urban water systems and all urban sewerage systems in the country. The
principal role of the new institution is to plan, construct, operate and
maintain water supply and sewerage systems throughout Nicaragua. INAA is also



- 10 -
responsible for allocation of the country's water resources and the establish-
ment of water resource policies in coordination with the Instituto de Recursos
Naturales y del Ambiente (IRENA). Because the new institution's organization
and management need to be strengthened, technical assistance is included in
the proposed project (paras. 52 and 53).
33.       A division of the newly restructured MH, the Area de Higiene del
Medio (AHM), is responsible for rural sanitation. Currently, AHM is implement-
ing a program to build 12,000 latrines in the rural areas. AHM in coordination
with INAA identifies rural water supply needs and organizes rural communities
which are selected to receive improved services.
Sector Investment and Finances
34.       Sector investment amouted to US$50 million 1/ during the period
1975-79. Approximately 32% of this amount was invested in Managua and 68% was
invested in the rest of the country. External assistance, principally in the
form of loans from IDB, USAID and the Bank, have financed more than one-half
(547) of the investment expenditures.
35.       INAA has proposed a US$56 million 1/ investment program for 1981-85.
US$39 million would be allocated to Managua, mainly for engineering and
construction of a fourth stage water supply project, and US$17 million would
be allocated in 1981-83 to areas outside of Managua, chiefly for the completion
of an IDB water and sewerage project in 31 communities and a proposed IDB
water and sewerage project in 32 communities. Detailed investment plans for
areas outside Managua for the period 1984-85 have not as yet been prepared.
Additional MH sector investment programmed for 1981-82 for rural communities
is estimated at US$2.2 million.
36.       INAA investment is expected to average US$11.2 1/ million annually
over the period 1981-$5. This is about 12% above the average yearly investment
in the 1975-79 period 1/. Proposed external loans are expected to finance an
estimated 70%, or US$39 million of the investment program and the balance of
30%, or US$17 million will be financed from local sources. INAA has requested
a Bank loan to assist in financing the Managua water supply project which
would be prepared under the proposed engineering loan.
37.       In the past, with the exception of the periods immediately following
the 1972 Managua earthquake and the 1978-79 civil war, EAM (now a part of
INAA) maintained its financial autonomy. It received loans directly and
generated funds internally to cover its investment needs. Loan 1496-NI made
in 1978 contains a financial covenant which requires EAM to earn gradually
increasing rates of return in 1980-83. On the other hand, DENACAL (now also
part of INAA) received foreign loans and counterpart funds through the Govern-
ment as capital contributions. Tariffs have barely covered operating, mainte-
nance and administrative costs. A study, scheduled to be completed by Octo-
ber 31, 1981 and financed by IDB, will address tariff levels, tariff structure
and a financial strategy to improve DENACAL's financial performance (paras. 60
and 61).
1/   Equivalent December 1980 dollars.



- 11 -
Prior Bank Projects
38.       The Bank Group has been providing assistance to the water supply
sector in Nicaragua since 1962. The following projects have been completed.
Credit 26-NI (US$3.0 million signed on September 7, 1962) helped finance the
First Managua Water Supply Project. Loan 808-NI (US$6.9 million signed on
March 17, 1972) assisted in financing the Managua Water Supply II Project.
The US$2.5 million water supply component of Loan 389-NI (US$20.0 million
signed on June 6, 1973 for Earthquake Reconstruction) helped to finance the
repair of damages sustained during the 1972 earthquake. The successful
completion of these projects by EAM helped to increase the population served
in Managua from 110,000 persons in 1962 to 471,000 persons in mid-1977. A
project performance audit report was issued on the Managua Water Supply II
Project (Ln. 808-NI) and the water supply component of the Earthquake
Reconstruction Project (Cr. 389-NI) on December 11, 1978. Its conclusion is
that the two projects were successfully completed and their principal objec-
tives met in spite of very difficult circumstances arising from the earthquake
in 1972.
39.       Two main factors contributed to the success of these projects.  They
were: (i) a stable and politically autonomous organization with capable
staff, management continuity, and well established management practices and
appropriate levels of water charges and (ii) approval of projects only after
most designs were completed.
40.       Loan 1495-NI (US$3.0 million signed on February 9, 1978) provides
funds to the MR to help finance the Rural Sanitation Project. Project imple-
mentation was'adversely affected by the civil war and the subsequent reorgani-
zation of sector responsibilities including the transfer of MR rural water
supply functions to INAA. In 1980, the new Government requested that the
project be restructured. The loan agreement has been amended. Project
implementation is moving ahead, and completion is scheduled for June 1983.
41.       EAM was the original Borrower under Loan 1496-NI (US$10.1 million
signed on June 30, 1978) which is assisting in the financing of the Managua
Water Supply III Project. The project is designed to provide additional water
supply to meet the maximum daily 1983 demand of an estimated population served
of 690,000 persons, expand distribution facilities, determine future water
supply sources and improve EAM's organization and management. This loan
was amended in 1979 to reflect changes brought about by the civil war and the
resulting weakened financial situation of EAM. The overall project objectives
remained intact, although some minor project components were deleted. The
savings resulting from the deleted components are being used to finance an
increased proportion of local expenditures and interest during construction.
The covenanted rates of return were lowered. As noted in para. 58, EAM has
fallen slightly short of the revised target for 1980. The Government and INAA
have raised tariffs and taken several other measures to improve EAM's financial
situation. Completion of the external audit for 1979 was substantially
delayed as a result of the merger of EAM and DENACAL and the consequent delays
in closing the books. The 1979 audit report has been received and INAA has



- 12 -
iade satisfactory arrangements for the audit of its 1980 financial statements.
Lhe analysis of INAA's financial viability and recommendations on financial
and operational targets, scheduled for completion by December 31, 1980
have not yet been started. Agreement was reached during negotiations to
incltude this analysis in the terms of reference of the tariff study, to be
carried otit by consultants financed by IDB and the organization and management
study. Charges for the drilling and use of private wells in Managua, scheduled
for establishment by June 30, 1980 under the Guarantee Agreement (Ln. 1496-NI)
have also not yet been instituted. INAA has drafted a decree and is completing
the well census required to levy the charges. Therefore the date for establish-
ment of the charges was changed to December 31, 1982. With these exceptions,
attributable largely to disruptions caused by the civil war and the subsequent
change in Government, compliance with Loan 1496-NI has been satisfactory.
Project implementation is proceeding well and completion is scheduled for
December 1981.
42.        INAA is also receiving some financial assistance under Credit 965-NI
(US$22.0 million signed on January 4, 1980) to carry out the water supply
component of the Urban Reconstruction Project. The INAA-administered component
of US$1.6 million consists of rehabilitation of war damaged water supply and
sewerage systems in six cities and construction of new offices for INAA. Despite
initial delays, project implementation is now considered satisfactory an.l the
water supply component is expected to be completed on schedule Ln June 1981.
43.       On balance Bank Group experience with previous lending operations to
the sector has been good. EAM has been able to complete its past projects
successfully.  TNAA i_s a siable and politically autonomous organization
committed to the same management practices which helped to make past Bank-
financed projects successful. INAA is also committed to preparing properly
its projects. The proposed engineering loan would enable thorough project
preparation to be done which was one of the principal factors in the success
of past water projects financed by the Bank in Nicaragua.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
44.       The need for continuous expansion of the Managua water system
was identified during the appraisal of the Managua Water Supply III Project
(Loan 1496-NI), which includes a feasibility study to recommend future supply
sources. The November 1980 appraisal mission reviewed the draft feasibility
study and found the scheme recommended by it to increase water supply for
Managua suitable for an engineering loan to prepare final designs. Negotia-
tions with INAA and the Government were held in Washington from March 18 to
March 20, 1981. The Nicaraguan Delegation was headed by Mr. Bernado Chamorro,
Vice Minister of FIR. Because this is largely an engineering project, only a
President's Report was prepared. Annexes III and IV contain supplementary
project data.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
45.       Based on current water demand forecasts for the city of Managua,
deficits are expected to occur later this year even with the addition of
sources being developed as part of the Managua Water Supply III project. 1/
Although unaccounted for water in Managua is high (37% in 1979), it is largely
a result of illegal connections and malfunctioning meters, so that a reduction
in unaccounted for water would not result in a reduction in demand. 2/ The
primary objective of the proposed project is to help INAA in preventing future
water deficits. Secondary objectives are to: (a) improve INAA's management of
Managua water supply and sewerage operations and financial performance; and
(b) increase efficiency in the operation of the existing system by providing
technical assistance and spare parts to repair production meters, pumping
station instrumentation and reservoir water level control valves.
Project Description
46.       The least-cost solution for meeting Managua's water requirements
until the year 2000 as recommended by the feasibility study is to develop
initially a groundwater aquifer approximately 25 km east of Managua near
Tisma followed by future development of Lake Nicaragua. Under the proposed
project final designs, technical specifications and contract documents for the
development of the Tisma aquifer would be prepared. Other project components
would be as follows:
(a) preparation of a detailed water demand study for Managua;
(b) development of a distribution system master plan for Managua;
(c) preparation of plans, technical specifications and contract
documents for the construction of the first stage distribution
improvements recommended in the distribution system master plan
study;
(d) the repair of production meters, pumping station instrumentation
and reservoir water level control valves in the Managua water
system; and
(e)  provision of technical assistance for organization and management to
assist INAA to fully integrate its predecessor organizations into a
single efficiently run entity and to complete a tariff study.
1/   The Managua Water Supply III project was to meet the projected 1985
average daily demand and the 1983 maximum day demand. During the 1977
appraisal the estimated assured capacity of all Managua's sources includ-
ing new wells added by the project was 44 Mgd. A 1979 study of Managua's
principal source, Lake Asososca, recommended reduced pumping from this
source in order to prevent its contamination and eventual loss. The
combined assured capacity of all Managua's water supply sources is now
only 41 Mgd.
2/   A program to reduce unaccounted-for water is being implemented under
Loan 1496-NI.



- 14 -
Tisma Water Supply Scheme 1/
47.       The available yield from the Tisma aquifer, estimated at 35 Mgd,
would be developed by constructing 37 wells with a total pumping capacity of
53 Mgd. The additional capacity would be provided to supply maximum day
demands and emergency standby capacity for equipment failure. Twenty kilo-
meters of collector pipe would carry the water to a 3 M gal clear well at
Tisma. A pumping station at Tisma with a nominal design capacity of 45 Mgd
woul6 lift the water from the clear well and pump it through a 25 km transmis-
sion main to 17 M gal of new storage to be constructed on the outskirts of
Managua. The construction of wells, the installation of pumps and construction
of storage would be staged to match growth in demand. Initial construction
would develop 50% of the ultimate capacity and is estimated to cost US$30
million in December 1980 prices.
48.       Consultants satisfactory to the Bank would prepare final designs,
technical specifications and contract documents for the construction of the
Tisma water supply scheme and undertake financial, economic and social analyses
required by the Bank or other international lending institutions that may be
interested in making construction loans. Terms of reference for the consul-
tants were reviewed and agreed upon during the appraisal mission. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the hiring of consultants for this
work would be completed after Bank review and comment on the water demand
study but prior to March 31, 1982 (see Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Water Demand Study
49.       Preliminary demand forecasts prepared by the consultants for the
feasibility study were based on a continuation of the high historical popula-
tion growth rate (6% per annum) and an annual increase of 1% in per capita
consumption. A lower demand growth rate, however, is more likely because
of the new Government's proposed decentralization policy and recent trends
towards a reduction in per capita consumption in other cities throughout Latin
America. The importance of the forecast is its effect on the sizing of
the various project components and the amount of the initial investment. To
minimize the risk of overdesigning the project and constructing a project
before it is needed, a new detailed demand forecast will be prepared as a
project component. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
detailed demand forecasts by geographical areas and different water users
(industrial, commercial, residential and public) reflecting the decentralization
policies of the new Government and the most recent trends in water use, would
be prepared prior to preparation of final design and would be submitted to the
Bank for review and comment prior to November 30, 1981 (see Section 3.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Distribution System Master Plan and Improvements
50.       Distribution network reinforcements and extensions would be required
to distribute the new supply. The feasibility study did not include an
1/   See map.



- 15 -
evaluation of these requirements. Therefore, it is proposed to include as
part of the project the development of a master plan for expanding the distribu-
tion network in accordance with the detailed geographical demand forecasts to
be prepared under the project. The project would also include preparation of
final designs for the first stage improvements to be recommended by the master
plan to distribute the Tisma water. During loan negotiations, assurances were
obtained that INAA would: (a) furnish the Bank for comment terms of reference
for the master plan study by September 30, 1981 (see Section 3.06(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement); (b) hire consultants satisfactory to the Bank by
March 31, 1982, to prepare the plan (see Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement); and (c) present to the Bank by March 31, 1983, a preliminary draft
of the plan for review and comment (see Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
System Repairs
51.       All of Managua's water is pumped.  In some cases, water supplied
to the higher zones is lifted two or three times before it is delivered
to customers. Most of the instrumentation and control systems for the pumping
stations, water level control valves for the storage tanks, production meters
at the wells and meters at pumping stations do not function for lack of spare
parts. Accurate production and pumping station metering is considered of
particular importance in systems with a high level of unaccounted for water
and is necessary for distribution system planning. Also, efficient operation
of the pumping stations requires functioning instrumentation and control
systems. The proposed system repair component of the project would provide
financing for the purchase of spare parts and technical assistance to diagnose
the problems, determine the nature of the repairs, and prepare specifications
for the purchase of spare parts.
Institutional Improvements
52.       INAA is a new organization, created in 1979 through the merger of
EAM and DENACAL (para. 32). Therefore, technical assistance is needed and is
proposed under the project to fully integrate the new organization, evaluate
the regionalization and decentralization policies adopted by INAA, and strengthen
its investment planning and capital budgeting capabilities, billing and
collection activities and its internal audit department. Recommendations
would also be made regarding the transfer of sewerage operations in Managua
from DENACAL to EAM and the consequent organizational changes required.  The
need for greater INAA staff efficiency would also be covered . Appropriate
targets for the ratio of employees to connections would be established based
on the organization and management studies. Finally accounts receivable
collection targets for Government and private consumers would be established
as a part of these studies. Agreement was reached during negotiations on
draft terms of reference for the organization and management studies. Prelim-
inary monitoring indicators were also agreed upon, with final indicators to
be agreed by INAA and the Bank based on results of the organization and manage-
ment studies.
53.       INAA has obtained a US$126,000 grant from IDB to provide tech-
nical assistance for studies of organization and management, and a tariff
study (para. 60). Since the IDB grant for the studies is not sufficient,



- 16 -
US$450,000 in supplemental funds has been included in the proposed Bank loan.
The Bank and IDB have and will continue to coordinate technical assistance
regarding the various organization and management studies required. Assurances
were obtained during loan negotiations that INAA would: (a) furnish to the
Bank for comment terms of reference for organization and management studies by
not later than September 30, 1981 (see Section 3.07(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement); (b) hire consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31,
1981 to carry out such studies (see Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c) furnish the conclusions of the studies and INAA's proposals thereon to the
Bank for comment, by not later than September 30, 1982; and (d) implement
charnges agreed between the Bank and INAA in its organization and management by
dates to be agreed upon between them (see Section 3.07(b & c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The matter has been discussed between the Bank and IDB and
there is general agreement on how the funds, for technical assistance from IDB
and the Bank will be used.
Project Execution
54.        INAA would execute the project through EAM with the assistance
of foreign and local consultants satisfactory to the Bank. EAM has proven,
through its performance on similar projects, that it is well qualified to
manage and plan the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that INAA would maintain a project manager, with qualifications and under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to manage and coordinate the
work of the consultants (see Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreemnt).
55.       The instrumentation repairs would be carried out by INAA's mainte-
nance staff assisted by manufacturers' representatives. The need for outside
contractors is not anticipated.
The Borrower
56.       INAA would be the Borrower under the proposed loan.  INAA is an
autonomous Government entity and is tax exempt. The new organization structure
which provides for full regionalization and decentralization of operations, is
based on studies carried out in late 1979 by INAA and Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO) consultants. Integration of EAM and DENACAL has moved
slowly and decentralization has not been fully implemented. The move to new
administrative offices, in January 1981, should speed the merger process.
Management is entrusted to a General Director and two Assistant Directors,
one responsible for Managua operations and the other responsible for INAA's
regional operations. The present General Director was appointed in 1979. As
of May 31, 1980, INAA had a staff of 1,883, or 14 employees per 1,000 connec-
tions. This ratio is high compared with those of other Latin American countries
(average 9/1,000). EAM's employee to connection ratio is only 8.5/1,000, while
DENACAL has a ratio of 22/1,000. The high ratio in DENACAL is principally
attributable to two factors: (a) the large labor force in Managua which only
works on the sewerage system; and (b) the large number of small systems
operated by INAA outside Managua where economies of scale are difficult to
atta:in. Full integration of INAA should result in a reduction of the employee
to connection ratio. Approximately 5% of the staff are university trained and
another 13% are skilled technicians.



- 17 -
57.       The two merged organizations have different accounting and budgeting
systems. The issuance of financial statements and budget and management
reports typically has been four or five months late. INAA is installing new
computer facilities expected to be completed in early 1981. This should
reduce the delays to a reasonable period. There are serious billing and
collection problems, particularly with private sector accounts. Accounts
receivable amounted to 8.2 months' sales as of May 31, 1980. INAA has intro-
duced measures to increase collections including an intensive campaign at the
community level, service cut offs, use of mobile bill collectors, extended
payment arrangements, settlement of outstanding Government accounts and
installation of new computer facilities. The technical assistance program
under this project is designed, inter alia, to strengthen this program.
Tentative agreement was reached on collection targets. These will be finalized
in the course of the technical assistance program. Investment planning,
particularly with regard to areas outside of Managua, and the internal audit
functions need to be strengthened. Technical assistance in management and
organization provided under an IDB grant and under the proposed loan (para. 53)
will address the problems identified above.
58.       INAA's financial position was weakened as a result of the civil
war; however, the Government and INAA have taken several steps to improve
it, including: (a) payment by the Government of INAA's 1979-80 external debt
service; (b) payment of overdue Government accounts receivable; (c) contribu-
tion of Government funds to the investment program; (d) increases in water
tariffs in Managua effective August 1980; and (e) control of operating costs
through a freeze on new hiring and wage controls. Despite these measures, EAM
has registered a return of between 0% and (-)I% in 1980, slightly below the 0%
covenanted under Loan 1496-NI. In addition, problems persist in the collection
of accounts receivable from the private sector. The Government has agreed to
a tariff increase of at least 30% for EAM effective June 1981 and a tariff
increase for DENACAL, effective not later than July 31, 1981 which would allow
a minimum 30% increase in its revenues.
59.       The proposed 30% increase, effective June 1981, may not be sufficient
to enable EAM to meet the 2% rate of return in 1981 as agreed under Loan
1496-NI (Annex IV).  Due to the difficult economic conditions in Nicaragua ind
the already high average combined water and sewerage rates of US$0.28 per m ,it
was agreed during negotiations to reduce the targeted rate of return for 1981
from 2% to 1% and for 1982 from 3% to 2% (see Section 5.05(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Compliance with the reduced rate covenant should enable EAM
to finance its working capital requirements and an estimated 35% of its 1981-84
investment program.
60.       The proposed actions, to increase DENACAL's revenues by 30%
(para. 58) would result in small estimated operating losses for DENACAL in
1981 and 1982; however, internally generated funds would finance working
capital requirements and an estimated 18% of the 1981-1982 investment program
(Annex IV). DENACAL's tariff structure makes no distinction between residential,
industrial, commercial and Governmental users. The structure has only a minimum
charge and one additional consumption block. In addition, DENACAL's fixed
assets have not been revalued. INAA has grant funds from IDB for a tariff study
to be completed by October 31, 1981. IDB has agreed that the tariff study terms
of reference would include, among other points: (a) formulation of a financial
strategy, including proposals on how sewerage services in Managua should be



- 18 -
would include, among other points: (a) formulation of a financial strategy,
including proposals on how sewerage services in Managua should be charged
and what rates of return should be earned by DENACAL to improve its
financial performance; (b) evaluation of average tariff levels needed to
attain those rates of return; and (c) a complete inventory and revaluation
of fixed assets.
61.        Regardless of the outcome of the tariff study, measures to increase
DENACAL's revenue by at least 30% including substantial tariff increases in
some secondary cites with reasonably good service have been authorized and
will be implemented not later than July 31, 1981 (see Section 5.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement). A rate of return target for DENACAL based on the
tariff study conclusions would be adopted for 1983 and subsequent years.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that INAA would: (a) furnish to
the Bank for comment the terms of reference for the tariff study as a condition
of Loan effectiveness; (b) consult with the Bank on consultants to be employed
to carry out the study; (c) complete the study by October 31, 1981; (d)
consult with the Bank on study conclusions; (e) agree with the Bank on a rate
of return and tariff structure for DENACAL; and (f) implement satisfactory
tariff changes by December 31, 1982 (see Section 7.01, 3.08 and 5.05(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Financial covenants included in the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Loan 1496-NI would be maintained, except as indicated in para.
59 above.
Project Cost and Financing
62.        Total project cost is estimated at US$5.06 million.  The foreign
cost is estimated at US$3.83 million or about 76%.  Expenditures for consul-
tants' services are expected to amount to about US$3.0 million (including
contingencies), or 59% of the total project cost. INAA would contract an
estimated 260 man-months of consulting services, of which 80 man-months would
be for local consultants. The estimated average consultant man-month cost,
incLuding salaries, overhead, profit, subsistence and transportation, but
excLuding contingencies, averages US$8,700. Foreign consultants are estimated
to cost US$10,500 per man-month and local consultants US$4,500 per man-month.
The remainder of the project cost (US$2.1 million, including contingencies)
would be used for the purchase and installation of spare parts, including
services of manufacturers' representatives to assist in the repair work,
surVey work required for design and administrative costs for project management.
The foreign cost of the project would be financed by the Bank loan and the IDB
grant. The local cost would be financed from INAA revenues.
63.        Cost estimates for preparation of final design and studies were
prepared by INAA's consultants for the feasibility study and were based on
December 1980 prices. All other cost estimates were prepared by the Bank
usinig December 1980 prices. Physical contingencies were estimated at 15% of
base cost. Price contingencies of US$10.1 million were based on a project
implementation period of 36 months starting in June 1981.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.        Consultants would be hired whose experience, capability, terms of
reference and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Spare parts would be purchased under international competitive bidding pro-
cedures. Limited international tendering would be used for the purchase of



- 19 -
special items which are available frorn eitth2r a sole or a limited number of
suppliers and for orders costing under US$50,000. Suppliers from Nicaragua
and other Central American Common Market countries would be granted a margin
of preference of 15% of the CIF landed price or 50% of import duties, which-
ever is lower, in accordance with the Central American agreement on fiscal
incentives.
65.       The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed over a three and a half
year period. Disbursements from the loan account would be made against: (a)
the foreign cost of consulting services; and (b) the foreign cost of imported
equipment and materials.
Project Justification and Risks
66.       The proposed project would ensure adequate preparation for the
construction and possible Bank financing of facilities needed to meet the
water supply requirements of Managua's growing population. It would also
provide immediate benefits through the financing of a program to repair
pumping station instrumentation, production metering and reservoir control
level valves. These repairs are expected to reduce operating costs and to
assist INAA's program to reduce unaccounted-for water in Managua. The project
would also help to complete the full integration of EAM and DENACAL. This
aspect of the project is particularly important since a well managed and
financially strong institution is considered a prerequisite for future Bank
lending.
67.       The Tisma scheme is not overly complex.  It is, however, a costly
project compared with previous water supply investment programs managed by
INAA's predecessor organizations. Although these organizations have a record
of successfully completing past projects, some of their most experienced
people have left as a result of the civil war. Bank involvement at an
early stage of the proposed loan would play a useful role in institution-
building and assisting in the preparation effort. 1/
68.       Because of the uncertainty caused by the effects of the civil war
and the new Government's decentralization policies, demand forecasting is
difficult. There is a risk that updated demand forecasts may differ signifi-
cantly from the projections in the feasibility study. A detailed water demand
study prior to initiation of final design is included as a project component
in view of this risk. If no growth in demand should occur during the design
period, which is very unlikely, construction could be delayed until a clear
need for additional supply develops.
69.       There are no other unusual risks associated with the project.
INAA's responsibilities are believed to be within the capability of its
present staff. The project cost estimates are considered realistic and
INAA's financial condition should be sufficiently sound to ensure the avail-
ability of local funding during project implementation.
1/   Bank staff supervision requirements for the proposed project are
estimated at 12 man-weeks per annum.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and INAA, the Draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Nicaragua and the Bank and the
Report to the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately. The most important feature and special condition of the draft Loan
Agretement have been included in Part IV and are summarized in Section III of
Annex III of the report. It would be an additional condition of effective-
ness that INAA would furnish to the Bank for comment, the terms of reference
for the tariff study.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENTATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 14, 1981



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%CES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             130.0
AGRICULTURAL      48.9                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  260.0        480.0     660.0                 1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      174.0        418.0     517.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.4          1.9       2.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.4          47.2      52.1                  63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        11.0         15.0      19.0                  28.1                       77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      30.0         39.0      51.0                  81. 7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          47.8         48.6      48.1                  41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                          49.7        49.0       49.4                  54. 7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.5          2.4       2.5                   3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9          2.9       3. 3                  2. 7                       1. 6
URBAN                               4.2          4.2       4.6                   4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.0         45.0      45.0                  34. 8                      22. 8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0         15.0      13.0                   8.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.3          3.3       3.3                   2. 5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         10.1      15. 6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      19.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           88.0        100.0     102.0                 106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   104.0        109.0     109.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0         74.0      70.0                  65.6                       91. 0
OF WHICH ANaIAL AND PULSE        37.0         42.0      42.0                  33. 7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.0           ..      17.0                   8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0          50.4      55.0                  63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        122.0      37.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION )
TOTAL                                ..           ..      70. 0                 65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..     100.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  62. 3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  79.4
RURAL                                ..          8.0      24.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2739.0       1999. 0/c  1666.0               1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSONI         ..        751.0     800.0                1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             431.0       422.0      484.0                 480.3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..        222.0     285.0
RURAL                                ..       2170.0    1963.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                    ..                       17. 0
MOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               6. lLd        ..
URBAN                               5.8/          ..        .
RURAL                               6. 3/d        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                               2. 8/1d      2.9
URBAN                               2.2/d         ..
RURAL                               3. 2/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              33.0         41.0
URBAN                              71.0         76.7
RURAL                               4.0          7.0



- 22-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
NICARAGUA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NICARAGUA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA1S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PLRIMARY:    TOTAL                  66.0         83.0       92. 0                  99. 7                    105.9
MALE                  65.0         82.0         ..                  101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                66.0         84.0         ..                   99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    7.0        18.0       29.0                   34.4                      64.0
MALE                    9.0        19.0                              33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                 6.0         17.0         ..                   34. 7                     56.9
VOCAtIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  24.0             9.0       9.0                   38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.0         39.0         ..                   30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         26.0         ..                   14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         53.0      57.0                   76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         17.0       16.0                   43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPJLATION                          51.0         55.0      157.0                  245.3                     192.2
TV RE3EIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         28.0       38.0                   84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
LNTERCST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        28.0       26.0                   63.3                      93.0
CINEMA AINNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0             ..        ..                     ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        445.0        550.0      735.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.1         20.3       22.0                   22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               62.3         51. 0      44.0                   37.1                      37. 0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  16.0         15.0       15.0                   23.5                      29.3
PARTICIFATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.0        30.0       29.8                   31.5                      40.9
MALE                                   51. 7       48.4        47.3                  48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                 10.5         12.0      12.6                   14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1. 7       1. 7                  1.4                       1.0
INCOME D ISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         42. 4/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           65.4/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.1/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          8. 7/ce
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMA1'ED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      262.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      183.0                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      319.0                  474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      155.0                  332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       21. 0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       19.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The  r.oup averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic nears.  Coverage of countries
a-ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforn.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d 1963;  /e Rural population only.
Most recent estimates of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



Ln
F-I    44
44 a
T                                    A
v 9
75
70
'S
. . . . . . . .
9          i   9
t
V                                                                                                                                                                   zi
cn
2            V
'2
i v
. . . . . . . ..
7E
I   1    4.
. . . . . . . . . . . .
2 A                                                                                                                               75 73
2
t :l
J   ti
72
I a



- 24    -                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
NICARAGUA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 2,453,952
GNP Per Capita:  (.1979) US$660
Amount                Average Annual Increase (%)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$              (at constant 1980 prices)                         (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 P/             1 61-70      1970-75   1975-80               tQ65          1970         1975          1980 V
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product  a/                    2133.9                4.4          5.9       -6.2
Agriculture                                  490.4                0.9          5.8       -2.7                 25.1         24.9         22.5          23.0
Industry                                    653.3                7.2           7.3      -4.2                 23.7          25.7         29.4         30.6
Services                                     990.2                3.8          5.1      -8.1                 51.2          49.3         48.1         46.4
Consumption                                   2161.4                3. 3         5.9       -2.8                 82.2         83.9         87.5         101.3
Gross investment                               431.0                2.3          9.3      -13.4                 20.9         18.6         21.4          20.2
Esports of goods and NFS                       507.7                2.7          7.8       -9.3                 29.3         26.7         28.0          23.8
Imports of goods and NFS                       966.2                4,4         10.2       -4.7                 32.4         29.2         36.9         45.3
Gross national savings                          17.3                1.3         -2.1      -13.0                 17.0         13.7           9.8          0.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(at current prices)
1970         1975       1980  P/
MERCNANOISE TRADE
Merchandise exports
Primary                                                         72.6         69.5        77.5
Manufactures                                                    27.4          30.5       22.4
Merchandise imports
Food                                                              5.1          4.0        6.1
Other consumer goods                                             23.9         19.6       22.9
FPol                                                              5.7         14.1       19.6
Intermediate                                                    34.7          33.8       39.5
tsp1 rol                                                         m.s          2 R S      11 R
1976         1977         1978         1979          1980
PRICES ANO TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                  46.4         52.9         54.2          74.2        100
Eschange rate , average                                        7.0          7.0           7.0          9.1         10.0
Export price inde:                                            45.2         55.9         52.6          73.4        100
Import price index                                            44.6         46.9         49.6          74.7        100
Terms of trade inexr                                         101.3        119.2        106.0          98.2        100
A S% GDP
(at current prices)
PUBLIC VINANcE bl                                 1970          1975       1980. P/
Current revenue                                                   10.3          11.7       18.8
Current expenditure                                                8.8           9.7       22.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        +1.5         + 2.0       -3.6
Capital expenditure                                                 3.0          8.0        7.9
Foreign financing                                                   1.1          3.3        5.1
1965-70        1970-75      1975-80
OTNER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (% yearly)                                                  4.1            5.9         -6.2
GNP per capita growth rate (% yearly)                                       1.4            2.5         -9.0
Energy consumption growth rate (% yearly)                                  16.1            9.6         12.3
ICOR                                                                        4.82           3.84        -3.58
Marginal savings rate                                                       0.24           0.04          0.34
Import elasticity                                                           1.O            1.7          0.7
aM Market Prices                                                                                                                             April 10, 1981
/ Central Government
Si Preliminary



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
NICARAGUA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Population:  2,453,952
GNP Per Capita:  (1979) US$660
Actual                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~ProJected
1975      1976       1977       1979        1979        1980 P/         1981        1982         1995        1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Eoports of goods end NFS                                   446.0      609.7      718.8      726.9       677.7       507.7           650.7       796.6     1,003.8    1,232.3    1,479.8
Goode F..B.                                              375.2      541.9      636.8     646.0        616.6       449.2           573.2       701.9       844.4    1,085.7    1,303.8
Non-faotor service-                                        70.8      67.8       82.0       80.9        61.1        58.5            77.5        94.8       159.4       146.6       176.0
Imports of goods and NFS                                   587.5      588.4      838.3     690.5        424.8       966.2           880.6    1,037.3      1,206.5    1,399.2    1,606.9
Goods C.l.F.                                             516.9      532.1      761.9     593.9        360.2       885.0           807.9       947.3     1,096.8    1,266.2    1,454.2
Nou-factor ser-ice-                                        70.6      56.3       76.4       96.6        64.6        81.2            72.7        90.0        109.7      133.0       152.7
Net enports of goods and NFS                              -141.5       21.3    -119.5        36.4       252.9      -451.5          -229.9      -240.7       -202.7     -166.9      -127.1
Net factor income                                           -59.0     -70.1      -73.0     -98.7       -110.2       -78.2          -118.1      -133.7       -142.5     -145.3      -141.7
Not tcron fern                                               16.7      10.2       11.2        9.4        91.6       123.0            25.0        28.0         31.1       34.4        38.0
Current accooct balaoce                                   -183.8      -38.6    -181.3      -52.9        234.3      -413.7          -323.0      -346.4      -314.1      -277.8      -230.9
Direct private inveetmeot (net)                              11.0      12.9       10.0        7.0         00                          --                       -          -           -
ML loans (oat)                                              139.7      55.8      205.7       92.5        98.0       270.4           208.2       221.0        255.2      294.9       338.9
Dllh .u.e.ente                                           160.0       90.8      256.3     142.4        112.4       332.6                               -                 -           -
A-aoctization                                            -20.3      -35.0      -50.6     -49.9        -14.4       -62.2                         -                 -           -
Other capitol                                                 1.4       9.6      -91.0    -270.9       -307.3       -50.8           117.8       155.4        103.9        37.9      -43.1
Change ic net reserves (- *   .n.remee)                      31.7     -39.7       56.6      224.3       -25.0       194.1            -3.0       -30.0        -45.0      -55.0       -65.0
International reserves, grose                              135.7      119.5      164.9      81.1        149.3       122.8            83.8       113.8        158.8      213.8       278.8
Renerves as nontho of irports GNFS                           2.8        3.2        2.4        1.4         4.2         1.5             1.1         1.3          1.6         1.8        2.1
Actual
1970     1975      1976     1977      1978      1979
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Offioial grants                                                                            -       16.7      10.0     11.2       9.4     91.6
Glone disbursements of MLT loano                                                         44.5    160.0      90.8    256.3    142.4    152.4
Conoea  .onal                                                                            23.1      30.1     25.2      37.2      38.0     38.2
Bilateral                                                                              18.6      13.7     10.5      14.8      21.8     11.3
IDA                                                                                     -         5.6       5.8      3.1       0.8      0.2
Other nultilaneral                                                                      4.5      10.9       8.9     19.2      15.4     26.9
Non-concessional                                                                          21.4    129.9      65.6    219.2    104.3       74.2
Official enportt redit                                                                  2.0       2.2      22.7     78.3      50.4      21.4
IBRD                                                                                    5.9      13.9     13.4      13.9       7.0      7.9
Othet eultilaterol                                                                      1.6       6.5       7.4     17.4      12.8     44.9
Private                                                                                11.9    107.4      22.1    109.7       34.1      -
EXTERNAL DEBT
o.obtfoutstanding and disbnrsed                                                         155.3    589.4    655.4    864.0    961.4  1,100.7
Offioial                                                                              110.0    252.6    313.9    447.9    545.3    687.3
IBRS                                                                                 26.6      52.3     63.8      75.2    g0.2       84.6
IDA                                                                                   3.0      13.4     19.2      22.3      23.1     23.2
other                                                                                80.4    186.9    230.9    350.4    442.0    579.5
Private                                                                                45.3    345.8    341.5    416.1    416.1    413.4
Undisb-r-ed Debt                                                                          67.0    222.9    305.6    237.8    240.4    303.3
DEBT SERVICE
Publio debt servloe payee.nts                                                             24.1     56.2      76.2    102.3      98.4      55.6
Internet                                                                                 7.2     35.9      41.2     51.7      48.4      41.2
Payments an   enporns GNFS                                                                11.6     12.6      12.5      14.2     13.5       8.2
Payenents an  IGNP                                                                         3.2      3.7       4.3       5.0      5.1       3.7
Average internet rate on nev loans (I)
Official                                                                                 5.5      4.9       6.1       6.9      5.3       6.6
Private                                                                                  8.6      9.7       8.0       8.2     1C.6
Average m:totity of ne- loans (years)
Official                                                                                27.8     28.8      18.8      17.6     20.7      22.6
Private                                                                                  7.0      7.1       6.7       6.6      4.7       -
BANK GROUP EXPORURE
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                                                        17.1      8.7       9.7       8.7      8.3       7.7
IBRD dibarsements/total gross dishbrsemente                                              13.2      8.7      14.8       5.4      4.9       7.5
IBRD debt service/total debt service                                                      12.4      9.6       8.1       7.2      7.1      14.4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                                          1.9      2.2       2.9       2.6      2.4       2.1
IDA disb.rseeents/total gross dieborest eots                                               0        3.5       6.4       1.2      0.6       0.2
IDA debt servce/total debt service                                                         0        0.2       0.3       0.2      0.1       0.2
Aa I of Debt Outstanding
at tEd of Mont Rocent
Year (1979)
SEBT STRUCTURE
Matsrity structure of debt oututanding (I)
Maturitie  due ithin 5 year                                                                                314
.t.titi:. ld=~~~~~~~~~    ll.yyl:.,t. ~~~~~~~44.9
Manuritien due =ithin 10 yearn                                                                              4 
Interesn structure of debt outstanding (Y)
Ienterst due within first year                                                                              7.4
!V  Preliz inary



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
1!
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS   (As of February 28, 1981)
L04n or                                                                US$ Millions
Credit                                                        Amount (Net of Cancellations)
No.      Year         Borrower             Purpose          Total    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty Loans and Three Credits fully Disbursed                115.2    33.6
1244       1976      Government         Education              11.0       -         6.1
1402       1977      ENALUF (now INE)  Power                   22.0       -        11.2
1495       1978      Government         Rural Sanitation        3.0       -         2.4
1496       1978      Empresa Aguadora  Water Supply
de Managua                              10.1      -         3.6
(now INAA)
1785       1980      Government         Agro-Industry
Rehabilitation      20.0       -         9.3
965       1980      Government         Urban Reconstr.                 22.0       13.1
1081       1981      Government         Pre-investment Fund              5.0        5.0
Total                                                    181.3    60.6
of which has been repaid                                46.7     0.3
Total now outstanding                                    134.6    60.3
Amounts sold                         5.6
of which has been repaid           5.6                    -       -
Total held by Bank and IDA                               134.6    60.3
Total Undisbursed                                                            50.7
1/   Includes exchange adjustments



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of February 28, 1981)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
----(US$ Millions)---
1968     Textiles Fabricato de         Textile Mill          1.00      1.07    2.07
Nicaragua, S.A.
(FABRITEX)
1976     Nicaragua Sugar               Sugar Mill            6.50         -    6.50
Estates Limited (NSEL)
1976     Posada del Sol                Hotel                 0.70      0.20    0.90
Total Gross Committed                                      8.20      1.27    9.47
Less Cancellations, Repayments and Sales                   4.33      1.07     5.40
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          3.87      0.20     4.07
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan/Credit No.
Ln  1244        Second Education Project:  US$ 11.0 Million of June 15, 1976:
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Project implementation has improved greatly in the last few
months. Seventeen basic secondary schools and around 110 out of
222 rural primary schools are under construction. Tenders have
been called which would bring the number of schools under con-
struction by the end of 1980 to around 75% of the total.
Around 55% of the estimated total value of civil works is in
execution. Repair of the 22 schools built under the First
Education Project which were destroyed during the 1979 civil
war was also substantially completed. Procurement of school
furniture and equipment is proceeding satisfactorily and
the teacher training program is being resumed.  The technical
assistance program contracted with UNESCO was initiated on
October 1, 1980. About 55% of the loan proceeds have been
disbursed to date. Total project costs have risen by around
10% due to labor and materials cost increases. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.



28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Ln. 1402        Ninth Power Project:  US$22.0 Million of April 22. 1977;
Effective Date: October 27, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project was significantly delayed because of delays in
hiring consultants, difficulties in engaging contractors and
because of ENALUF's (now INE) increasingly tight financial
situation. These earlier difficulties were partly a
consequence of the political disturbances which ended with a
change of Government in July 1979. The cost of the project,
originally appraised at US$32.3 million, is now estimated to be
US$40.2 million. After the civil war, modifications in the
project were agreed with the new Government and INE. They
consisted of a reduction in the Bank share of some parts of the
project (financing for which was assumed by CABEI) to allow the
Bank to finance a portion of the local costs of reconstruction
of installations damaged during the war, and finance replenish-
ment of INE's inventory of distribution equipment. Since the
end of the war, procurement activities under the project have
been satisfactory, except that the tariff and sector organiza-
tion studies which were to be financed have not been restarted.
Because of reduced sales and increased operational expenses,
largely due to increased fuel cost, INE continues to face
serious financial problems. Collection performance which was
very poor during and immediately after the war has improved
much more slowly than expected. Effective January 1981 elec-
tricity tariffs were increased, on average they are now about
US$0.108 per kw/h. This rate is considered satisfactory.
Tariff subsidies to the productive sectors have been substan-
tially eliminated as of January 1981.
Ln. 1495        Rural Sanitation Project:  US$3.0 Million of February 9, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Following the civil war and in view of the changed responsibili-
ties of the Ministry of Health and INAA, the Government presented
to the Bank a detailed proposal for the modification of the
project scope and the institutional arrangements required for
the Project. Meanwhile, the subprojects already started are
being completed. The proposed amendments for the project have
been put into effect.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Ln. 1496        Managua Water Supply III Project:  US$10.1 Million of
January 30, 1978; Effective Date:  May 26, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was restructured in October 1979, eliminating some
components which were not of high priority under current circum-
stances, using the resulting savings to finance replacement
of equipment destroyed during the war, and to increase the
financing of local costs and interest during construction.
Although the executing agency (INAA) has endured a very critical
financial position, the company is now in the process of
recovery. Bank recommendations have been, or are, in the
process of being implemented, and the project is expected to be
completed six months after the original closing date of June 30,
1981 i.e. December 31, 1981.
Ln. 1785        Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project:  Loan US$20.0
Cr.  966        Million, Credit US$ 10.0 Million of January 4, 1980; Effective
Date: January 25, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
One half of the Loan/Credit was allocated to replanting of
expropriated farmland, war damaged private farms and to a
coffee renovation project. Disbursements under the agricul-
tural component were much faster than expected, while utiliza-
tion of funds earmarked for industry was slower. To satisfy
the unexpected and urgent demand for funds in agriculture,
US$7 million of the US$15 million industrial allocation
was reallocated to the agricultural component. In spite of
the reallocation of funds, only about half of eligible sub-
projects in agriculture were financed.
The balance of the Loan/Credit was allocated for the rehab-
ilitation of industrial enterprises to enable them to regain
prewar levels of employment, output and exports through
restoring current production and the repair or replacement of
fixed installations. All funds under this loan/credit have
been fully committed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Cr. 965         Urban Reconstruction Project:  US$ 22.0 Million of January 4,
1980; Effective Date: Januarv 25, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The Municipal Reconstruction Component (US$6.8 million) is
proceeding on schedule; most repair works on the streets,
public spaces and utilities have been completed. Major recon-
struction of markets and other municipal buildings are under
construction due in large part to the quality of the technical
teams of the Ministry and Municipalities. Under the Small
Scale Enterprise Component (US$3.2 million), the FED has
made about 1,800 loans totalling over US$3.0 million which
include numerous micro-enterprise loans handled by the Banco
Popular and BND. Progress on the Urban Transport Component
(US$ 12.0 million) is also satisfactory; the bus route paving
improvement program is completed. Tendering for procurement of
buses and maintenance equipment was approved by the Bank in
July and contracts were signed in mid September 1980. Total
disbursements are at present near appraisal estimates.
Cr. 1081        Preinvestment Fund Project:  US$ 5.0 million of December 18,
1980; Effective Date: March 18, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Disbursements are expected to start shortly.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NICARAGUA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           Approximately 28 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     INAA with the help of consultants
(c)  First presentation to Bank:              July 1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          November 3, 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:              March 20, 1981
(f)  Planned deadline for effectiveness:   September 1, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Bank Conditions
(a)  As a condition of Loan effectiveness, INAA would   furnish the Bank
for comment, the terms of reference for the tariff study (para. 61);
(b) After Bank review and comment on the water demand study but prior
to March 31, 1982, INAA would hire consultants, satisfactory to
the Bank, to prepare plans, technical specifications and contract
documents for construction of the Tisma water supply scheme
(para. 48);
(c) By November 30, 1981, INAA would present to the Bank for review
and comment detailed demand forecasts by geographical areas and
different water users to serve as the basis for the design of the
Tisma scheme and distribution system improvements (para. 49);
(d) By September 30, 1981, INAA would furnish the Bank for comment
terms of reference for a master plan water distribution study; by
March 31, 1982, hire consultants satisfactory to the Bank to
prepare the plan; and by March 31, 1983, present to the Bank a
preliminary draft of the plan for review and comment (para. 50);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) By September 30, 1981, INAA would furnish to the Bank for comments
terms of reference for technical assistance studies in management
and organization; hire consultants, satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1981, to carry out the technical assistance studies;
furnish to the Bank for comment not later than September 30, 1982,
the conclusion of the consultants and INAA's proposal thereon;
and implement acceptable changes in its organization and management
(para. 53); and
(f) INAA would consult with the Bank on consultants to be employed
to carry out the tariff study; consult with the Bank on study con-
clusions; complete the study by October 31, 1981; agree with the
Bank on a rate of return target and tariff structure; and implement
satisfactory tariff changes by December 31, 1982 (para. 61).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
NICARAGUA
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEFRING PROJECT
Financial Projections
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Revenues
1.        Revenues for EAM are based on projected compliance with the proposed
rate of return covenant (1%-1981; 2%-1982; 4%-1983; and 6% thereafter). EAM
plans to implement an approved 30% tariff increase effective June 1981.
Revenues for DENACAL are based on (a) a proposed tariff increase effective
July 30, 1981, which would allow a 30% increase in revenues over the preceeding
12 months and (b) a 1980-81 program designed to reduce unaccounted for water
and increase revenues. The INAA estimate of additional revenues for 1981
from the program is C$5.9 million.
Operating Maintenance and Administrative Costs (OM&A)
2.        OM&A costs are expected to increase in line with the following
inflation rates:
Item                         1981      1982     1983      1984
Salaries                     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
Energy                       15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0
Other costs                  35.0      25.0      20.0     15.0
Composite rate               18.25    15.75    14.5       13.25
Depreciation
3.        Depreciation is based on a composite straight-line rate of 3.9% on
revalued fixed assets for EAM and 3.5% on unrevalued fixed assets for DENACAL.
Revalued Fixed Assets
4.        Revaluation factors for EAM's fixed assets are based on a combined
expected foreign/local index. Factors are 25%-1980; 24.6%-1981; 18.4%-1982;
15.0%-1983; and 12.0%-1984. DENACAL's fixed assets would be revalued as part
of the tariff study to be completed by October 31, 1981.
Investments
5.        Investments include all works projected to be carried out by INAA,
adjusted for inflation and including capitalized interest.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
Working Capital Requirements
6.        Working capital requirements are based on a gradual reduction in
accounts receivable from eight months sales at May 31, 1980 to two months
sales at December 31, 1983. Inventories are projected to increase in line
with inflation rates assumed for operating costs. Payables are projected
at two months operating costs plus in-transit inventory.
1983-84 Financial Projections for DENACAL
7.        The tariff study to be completed by October 31, 1981, would produce
a financial strategy and recommended rates of return on revalued fixed assets
for DENACAL for 1983 and subsequent years. New financial projections for
1983-84 would be prepared taking into account the tariff study results.



- 35 -
NICARAGUA                                        ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
MANAGUA WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
EAM Income Statements
(Millions of Cordobas)
A c t u a I                P r o i e c t e d
1979    5/31/80       1980       1981       1982       1983      1984
Water produced6(I0  gal.)                          13.4        6.1       13,6       13.0       13.0       13.3      13.5
Water sold (10  gal.)                               8.5        3.5        8.6        9.1        9.4        9.9      10.1
Unaccounted-for water (X)                          36.6       41.9       36.7       30.0       28.0       26.0      25.0
Revenues                                           51.2       25.0       65.0       87.4     107.8       137.0    170.0
Operating, maintenance &
administrative costs                           42.4       20.3       48.7       57.6       66.7       76.4      86.5
Income before depreciation                          8.8        4.7       16.3       29.8      41.1        60.6      83.5
Depreciation                                       15.7        8.0       19.1       25.3       30.0       36.0      42.0
Operating income (loss)                            (6.9)      (3.3)      (2.8)       4.5       11.1       24.6      41.5
Net revalued fixed assets                         285.0       N.A.      349.3      452.6      555.1      616.2    691.0
Actual/projected rate of return (%)                (2.4)      N.A.       (0.8)       1.0        2.0        4.0       6.0
Covenanted rate of return (%)                       4.0       N.A.        0.0        1.0        2.0        4.0       6.0
Avge. tariff/ thousands of gallons (C$)             6.02      7.14        7.56       9.60      11.47      13.84    16.83
,AM Cash Flow Statements
(Millions of Cordobas)
Actual                      Pr o j e c t e d
1979               1980    1981        1982       1983-      1984
Sources
Income before depreciation                       8.8               16.3      29.8       41.1       60.6       83.5
Customer contribtitions                           5.0               1.5       1.5        1.6        1.7        1.8
Government contributions                          2.6              22.0        -          -
IDB contributions                                 _                           1.3         _
Borrowings:
World Bank (1496-NI)                         31.0               32.0      37.0                               -
World Bank (proposed)                          -                 _         2.5      18.4       11.1        5.0
IV stage water supply                         _                  -          -          -        56.0      112.0
Total                                   31.0              32.0      39.5       18.4       67.1      117.0
Total sources                           47.4               72.1     72.1       61.1      129.4      202.3
AppElicat ions
Investments:
III stage water supply                       13.6               55,4      44.5         -          7  
IV stage water supply                          _                 _        4.6        22.4      100.0      171.0
Other                                          _                 9,5       2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0
P                    Total                                   13.6               64.9      51.1       24.6      102.0      173.0
Debt service                                      9.7              10.8      11.0       20.2       21.6       23.1
Working capital requirements                      1.3              15.9       1.4        5.6       (2.2)      10.9
Total applications                      24.6     .        91.6      63.5       50.2      121.4      207.0
Change in cash                                      22.8              (19.5)    8.6        10.9        8.0        (4.7)
Debt service ratio                                   0.9                1.7     2.7          1.9        2.4        2.2
Source: INAA and Mission estimates 11/80.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
NICARAGUA
MlANAGUA WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
Financial Projections
DENACAL Income Statements
(Millions of Cordobas)
A c t u a 1                  ProJected
1979      5/31/80        1980      1981     1982
Revenues                                   44.6          21.6        49.1     61.5      71.4
Operating, maintenance &
adminisi:rative costs                   39.3         17.3        42.3      50.1      58.0
Income before depreciation                  5.3          4.3         6.8      11.4      13.4
Depreciation 1/                            12.4           6.4        15.9     17.7      17.9
Operating i.ncome (loss)                    (7-1)        (2.1)       (9.1)    (6.3)    (4.5)
1/ Depreciation expense is not revalued.
DENACAL Cash Flow Statements
(Millions of Cordobas)
=ro ected
Sources                                                              1980     1Mi       19g2
Income before depreciation                                        6.8      11.4      13.4
Customer contributions                                            1.2       1.2       1.3-
Government contributions                                         12.3       3.9       4.0
Borrovings:
Bid (476-SF-NT)
Bid - 32 cities (proposed)                                  89.5      27.       30.6
-      13.2       30.6
Tota]i'                                                      89.5      40.8      30.6
Total sources                                               109.8    57.3        49.3
Applications
Investments:
6 cities and 25 communities                                 89.5      27.6
6 cities                                                    10.0       4.0         -
32 cities                                                              16.4       38.3
Other                                                        6.0       6.0        5.8
Total                                                       105.3      54.0      44.1
Debt service                                                      2.4       2.4        4.0
Working capital Req.                                              4.3       0.7       (0.4)
Total applications                                          112.2      57.1       47.7
Changles in cash                                             (2.4)      2.2        1.6
Z Contribution to investment                                      0        15         22
Source: INAA and Mission Estimates 11/80.



IBRD 15546
| s 86°15'                                           4  SanJ: 86' 10'                                    86705 ' p                                        5 8n                                                         M      IBMRD   1554
.fJL:nagac / _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                   __                       _ m btUotqaaal  e
,,        =                                                                                                                      ,' (7-                  >   < 56NICARAGUA
,: ;W-Cc .    ^X 'MANAGUA WATER    SUPPLY
/                                                          '12--: ' D ' :+ X /                           _                                             s to ENGINEERING PROJECT
''                                                                                    ./S;g                                                                                        L --1  T'sma Water Supply Scheme
&  i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~*5                                                                                                       P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U4URF   PROJECT  EXISTING
¾                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water Transmission or
iiJ                                                                                                    .1,                                                                                                                       Distribution Mains
t  d ,1gr,   . .  9   -                                    J-                                                                                          *                      *      Inlokes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA Inae
-\11    Pumping Stations
4' 5                                        z                                                               \                                         *                      *      Srorage Tanks
>                             7/                                                                                      tIS.   I                                     r      Wells                        1209
75!  /                                                                                          L)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   Treatment plarts
/                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected Roads
7                                                                                        /             !II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Built-up Areas
7                                                                    0                     .              77r751&Z¾Z  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
./                                                                                                                                                   -    -    De?partment Boundary
/"                                                                                                                                    '     /                                               "A/
o n                                                                                                                                                                                       /                              
.55                  ,,                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TICUANTEPE/
-~~f Sn>S                                                                                                                                                                                  /'                                       l
/.  i                                                               H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NINDIRI                                                                        .                               120'
-12C05'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
-_7 H3rerneyon l;;;jA;%f   .   se         s                                  n,                                                      
nsmssiLouirks ,2 3p 1p,jel r40 \ n V b(' 9  >"  9I                                  N                                    ½/                                                                                                               c aracluD
in' H QNDURASJ-'                              r,!                                                                       c.vs             MASAYA                                   1
K£LMETERS _      _      __Y
NICARA&UA\ 5 0 t-$    f   <0                   h                          2L jES           4
r   SL    y  N  I C A R A G  U A   .u:>:>g    o  ' °            MlLE' o       7       2       J        4      ,,b ,   Oin                                             5f_
sr   l                                                                           b - -- a d
-!1'  .-'                                                           toir,,TAld- ,  oi- ,, I \-p
N  Lou.                  N~~~~~~~~~~,.  MASA)K~~~~~~~~~~  4~riO,'~    fesrd lb                                                       agaas                                        AAn
6)~~FAN  >  jocmrn,.,    a                                        Worm nsrsand,is utt~~~~.1  ~1,i-ae  -il                                       Apoy,ol15
.5CQSVA RiCA                                   t                                                5 Jii,srnee                                                 sn-sn'A                               7 5d--
O~~~ 'AI                                                                                 I- 'S''                      i         5' Ct i..... .                                                                         Nmuoin' 



