Docunmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8487-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
HAY 8, 1990
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcidal duties. Its contents may not otberise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 - Y4.72
Y1.oo  US$0.21
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cum)   = 35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)      -   0.62 miles
1 hectate (ha)        -   2.47 acres
1 ton (t)             -  1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC         -     Agricultural Bank of China
AE          -     afforestation entity
CAF         -     Chinese Academy of Forestry
ColiFF      -     collective forest farm
CoopFF      -     co-operative forest farm
CRG         -     Central Research Group
MAI         -     mean annual increment
MFO         -     Ministry of Forestry
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance
NEPA        -     National Environment Protection Agency
NTSSC       -     National Tree Seed and Seedling Company
PIA         -     project implementation agreement
PO          -     Project Office
RE5iP       -     Research and Extension Support Panel
RTF         -     research task force
SFF         -     state forest farm
SIC         -     Silvicultural Investment Company
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:            Ministry of Forestry, with the final beneficiaries
being forest farms located in 15 provinces
Credit Amount:           SDR 230 million (US$ 300 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:            Standard, with 35 years maturity
Relending Terms:         From Ministry of Finance to Ministry of Forestry for
20 years, with 8 years of grace on principal and
interest repayment. Interest at 4.52 on the amount
disbursed in foreign currency and 6.52 on the amount
disbursed in Yuan. From MFO to 15 provincial
governments and from provincial governments to
prefecture and county governments at the same interest
rates and with maturities and grace periods
corresponding to the rotation length of the tree
species. From county governments to final
beneficiaries in the form of investments to be repaid
in the form of shares of wood produced, which will
recover over 1502 of total financing.
Objectives and
Description:             The main objective is to assist State and Collective
Farms to establish intensively managed forest stands
on 985,000 hectares in 15 provinces. The main species
would be Chinese fir, pines, eucalyptus, larch and
poplar, and the wood would be used for construction,
pulp, panels and mine props. Research programs and
development of improved planting material for
intensively managed forestry would be improved.
Environmental management and resource planning would
also be streitgthened.
Benefits and Risks:     About 137 million cubic meters of timber and 25
million tons of fuelwood worth about USS 10.7 billion
would be produced. The Ministry of Forestry and its
counterpart agencies at provincial and county levels
would develop under the project a permanent system for
appraising, funding and monitoring intensively managed
plantations. The new plantings would reduce soil
erosion on now degraded lands and lessen the pressure
to harvest natural forests. About 680,000 person-
years of employment would be created during the
project's six years. No major risks are foreseen.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Estimated Costs
Local         Foreign         Total
---- US $ million  -------
Afforestation                       403.4            60.3         463.7
Research                              6.7             1.9          8.6
Accelerated Planting
Material Development                1.3             1.3          2.6
Information System                    1.6             0.3           1.9
Total Base Cost                     413.0            63.8        476.8
Price Contingencies                  20.1             2.7         22.8
Total Project Cost                  433.1            66.5        499.6
Financing Plan:
IDA                                 233.5             66.5        300.0
Provincial Govts.                    50.0               0           50.0
County and Pref. Govts.              75.0               0           75.0
Forest Farms                         74.6               0           74.6
Total                               433.1             66.5         499.6
Estimated Disbursementss
IDA Fiscal Year         1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Annual                    40      60     75      60     40     15      10
Cumulative                40    100    175    235    275    290    300
Economic Rate of Return:      23Z



CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE FORESTRY SECTOR ........................                       1
Introduction                     ..                          1
Forest Resources                   ..                        1
Wood Production and Trade              ..                    2
Organization of Forestry Production         .       .        3
Wood Processing .........................................    5
Prices and Markets                  ..                       5
Forestry Research ............................    ..         5
Bank Involvement and Origin of the Project      .    .       6
II.  THE NATIONAL PLANTATION PROGRAM AND ROLE OF THE PROJECT .......    7
Forestry Strategy .......................................    7
The 'Fast Growing High Yielding" Plantation Program .....    7
Role of the Project in the Program ......................    e
III.  THE PROJECT ...............                ...................   10
Objectives and Scope ............    ........................   10
Detailed Features .......................................   11
Environmental Aspects ...................................   18
Project Costs and Financing .............................   21
Procurement .............................................   22
Disbursements ...........................................   24
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                    ..                       25
Overall Project Management              .        .          25
Afforestation Entities                ..                    26
Research and Extension Organization          .      .       28
Environmental Management               ..                   28
Flow of Funds and Cost Recovery           ..                29
Monitoring and Reporting               ..                   31
Accounts and Audit                  ..                      32
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission in November
1989 comprising H. Wagner and V. Elliott (IDA) and S. Shen, B. Allison, W.
Gladstone, A.R. Griffin, K. Gould, J. Greenfield, K. Kehr and T. Smith
(consultants) ; and an appraisal mission in February 1990 comprising H.
Wagner, V. Elliott, N. Jones (IDA) and S. Shen (constultant).



- ii -
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................   32
Production                      ...  32
Markets and Prices .. ....................................   33
Financial Analysis              .... .... .    34
Economic Analysis                   . . .    35
Environmental and Employment Benefits ...................    35
Risks ...................................................   36
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........................   36
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Project Cost Summary ....................................   21
Procurement Profile .....................................   23
ANNEXES
Annex 1     Tables
Table 1     Plantation area by species and province
Table 2     Quantities and sources of seed
Table 3     Selected plantation models
Table 4     Detailed project costs
Table 5     Costs per hectare of plantation establishment by species
Table 6     Project cost summary by component and category
Table 7    Disbursement schedule
Table 8     Timber output by species
Table 9     Total project timber output and value
Table 10    Prices used in project analysis
Table 11    Economic and financial rates of return
Table 12    Project cash flow
Annex 2     High Yield Plantation Research
Annex 3    Accelerated Planting Material Development Program
Annex 4     Project Organization Chart
Annex 5     Flow of Funds Chart
Annex 6     Key Implementation Actions and Supervision Plan
Annex 7     List of Working Papers and Documents in the Project File
MAPS        IBRD  Nos.  22268, 22269, 22270, 22271, 22320



CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
I. The Forestry Sector
Introduction
1.1     The Government of China has requested an IDA Credit of SDR 230 million
(US$ 300 million equivalent) to finance a National Afforestation Project. The
proposed project would finance afforestation, research and planting material
development activities and institutional strengthening in fifteen provinces.
Project funds would be provided to state and collective forest farms to
establish intensively managed forest stands using a variety of species. The
timber produced would be used for construction, mine timbers, plywood and
pulp.
Forest Resources
1.2     China is poor in forest resources. Its total forested area is about
119 million hectares - 132 of its land area - or 0.12 hectares per capita.
This compares to a world average of 1.1 hectares per capita. The total
forested area can be divided by origin as follows:
Natural forest                           742
of whicht primary (virgin)   352
secondary          40Z
Planted                                  262
The total standing volume of wood is about 9 billion cubic meters, or about 9
cubic meters per capita, compared to a world average of 66 cubic meters per
capita.
1.3     China's forests can be grouped in four main categories according to
how they are utilized and managed: natural forests, timber plantations,
fuelwood plantations and shelterbelts.
(a) Most of the natural forest area is in the northeastern provinces
of Heilongjiang, Nei Mongol and Jilin, where there are some 32 million
hectares of mixed coniferous and broadleaf stands covering about one third of
the total land area. These three provinces account for 302 of China's total
forested area and 362 of its standing volume of wood. The most common species
are larch, pine, fir and spruce but the forests also include deciduous species
such as birch, aspen and Mongolian oak. This area is China's most important
source of wood, and the forest is managed directly by the Ministry of
Forestry. Some one million hectares in these three provinces have been set
aside as nature reserves, and about one third of the total forest area is in
inaccessible mountain areas. The accessible areas have thus been heavily
overharvested and many of the forestry bureaus within these areas have already
exhausted their commercially viable stands. Another 192 of China's forested
area, containing 312 of its standing wood volume, is in the southwestern
provinces of Yunnan, Sichuan and Xizang (Tibet). This region supports about



- 2 -
250 usable tree species ranging from spruce, fir and larch to tropical
hardwoods such as eucalyptus and teak. As in the north, the forests are
managed as timber production areas, but there are also many nature reserves -
over one million ha. in the forests of Yunnan alone. In all China, about 6
per cent of the forested land is protected. Recognizing the need to protect
natural forests, Chinese authorities have been establishing forest nature
reserves at a rapid paces where there were only 106 reserves in 1980, there
are now 381.
(b) Plantations for timber, which are the object of this project, are
described in more detail in Chapter 2 of this report.
(c) Fuelwood provides about 40 X of household energy. About 102 of
all fuelvood comes from plantations that villages and townships have
established for the purpose. The rest is harvested from natural forests,
timber plantations, shelterbelts and village plantings around roads and
houses. Some of this harvesting - perhaps half - consists of thinnings and
prunings or other controlled collection. The rest is uncontrolled and
contributes significantly to the overcutting of forests. Although there is no
national program specifically to finance fuelwood production, the Government
promotes the establishment of village fuelvood plantations, particularly
through its recent policy of assigning hillside plots for the private use of
households and villages.   Forestry department extension staff also provide
technical help for village fuelvood plantations.
(d) Finally, since the 19509, there have been extensive plantings for
shelterbelts and otber mainly non-commercial purposes. The Government is
establishing four national sheiterbelts. The "three north" shelterbelt (or
Great Green Wall) was begun in 1978 to limit encroachment of the northern
desert; some 9 million hectares have been planted to date. A coastal
shelterbelt started in 1952 covers 18,000 kilometers of the country's
coastline. The Taihang Mountain afforestation area was begun in 1986 in four
northeastern provinces to protect farm land from erosion, and a shelterbelt to
control erosion along the middle and upper reaches of the Yangtze River was
started recently with a target of afforesting some 13 million hectares in 15
years. In addition, under the well-established 'four-around' program,
villagers are encouraged to plant trees around roads, rivers, homes and
villages. The more recent 'plant bare hills' program has been less successful
because unsuitable sites were often chosen, and techn-:al supervision and
financial incentives were not provided.
Wood Production and Trade
1.4      China is facing a worsening imbalance between supply and demand for
wood products. Reliable data are not available because the Government records
only wood produced and consumed under the state plan, which is less than half
of the total. It is estimated, however, that the annual consumption of wood
in China is between 300 and 340 million cubic meters for all uses. About 65
million cubic meters is produced under the state plan, and another 75 million
is officially recorded as outside-plan production. The difference between
apparent consumption and recorded production consists of imports, unrecorded



- 3 -
and illegal felling and fire and pest losses.   Although Government is
attempting to limit the use of wood for urban construction, railway sleepers
and other specified uses, it cannot control wood use in rural areas. Demand
for wood products is still strong, and this is reflected in high free-market
prices. By 2000, wood consumption is expected to increase by 25 million cubic
meters per year, representing an annual growth rate of 1.62.
1.5       Even the present low level of domestic production exceeds the annual
growth increment of the forests by about 100 million cubic meters. Each year,
about 1 million hectares of forest area is lost, leading to increased soil
erosion and loss of plant and wildlife habitat. The Government is trying to
stabilize its State timber production target at about 65 million cubic meters
per year, but this has little effect on legal non-State production nor on
illegal felling. In addition, although the Government has afforested about 5
million hectares per year since 1986, the results have been mediocre because -
until recently - financial incentives were low or absent, and the techniques
and supervision of planting and tending were inadequate.
1.6        Imports of wood and wood products have increased twelvefold since
1970. In 1988. a record year, about 11 million cubic meters were imported at a
cost of about US$ 2 billion. Imports fell in 1989 because of direct
restrictions and foreign exchange shortages. Nonetheless, the Government
estimates that imports will continue to increase and by 2000, about 39 million
cubic meters will have to be imported each year. China imports most of its
wood in log form and processes it domestically.  China's exports of wood
products are negligible and consist mainly of eucalyptus chips exported to
Japan for pulp.
Orsanization of Forestry Production
1.7         Timber forests in China are controlled by government-owned State
Forest Corporations and Forest Farms; county and township enterprises;
collective forest farms, In which villagers own shares; cooperative forest
farms, where villagers have pooled their land, and individually managed forest
land.  In additior, the railway, the army, coal mines and other entities
manage forests for their own nRes. The relative importance of these types
varies widely from province to province.
1.8         State forests, which are mostly under the control of the Ministry
of Forestry (MFO), account for about 702 of total timber reserves.   About one
quarter of this volume is virtually unmanaged, consisting of virgin stands in
remote, mountainous northern regions. The rest is on some 4,200 State Forest
Farms (SFFs), which together cover 25 million hectares of existing forest area
and an additional 10 million hectares classified as .iitable for
afforestation. SFFs range in size up to about 10,000 hectares and can include
both natural and planted forests. They are on public land, and as A..eir
plantations have expanded to cover most of the land allocated to them, many
have entered into share or lease agreements with nearby collectives and
farmers. Most SFFs are under the jurisdiction of County Forestry Bureaus, but
each SFF has its own manager and employees, who number from several dozen to
nearly 200. SFF personnel are primarily involved in the farm's management and



- 4 -
research, and they employ local farmers as daily labor for planting, tending
and harvesting. Most SFFs operate one or more wood processing factories, and
many also own enterprises completely unrelated to wood. Large SFFs in remote
areas are like small towns, with their own schools, clinics and other
community facilities.
1.9         The MFO provides policy and technical guidance to the SFFs through
a network of provincial and county forestry bureaus. Most SFFs use improved
forest management techniques. Although SFFs in the southern region can now
sell wood on the open market, and are currently earning healthy revenues, they
so far have not been operated as commercially viable entities. Until
recently, they received direct budgetary grants to finance their operations.
Now the central and provincial governments provide mainly low-interest loans
or equity financing against a share of final revenues.
1.10        Collective forest farms.  Collective forest farms (CollFFs) are
owned by townships and villages and are located primarily on lands allocated
to local communes and production brigades during the 1950s. In 1983. there
were about 175,000 CollFFs throughout China covering 10.7 million hectares,
and their number is increasing as townships and villages designate marginal
lands for forestry production to create an additional source of income. Those
working on the farms are salaried or casual workers employed by the village
council. CollFFs are much smaller than SFFs, typically with well under 1,000
hectares. There is great variation in their scale and standards. Some are
as large and productive as SFFs, but they range down to unmanaged and
virtually moribund stands. These entities can buy improved seedlings and
other inputs, and they can borrow funds at subsidized rates, but they get
little technical support from government forestry staff. Their ability to
expand their forestry activities is constrained by lack of financing and
limited technical and management capabilities, which have affected their
profitability. For these reasons, CollFFs often enter into share agreements
with SFFs, and in some instances profit-sharing arrangements with County
Forestry Btreaus. ColIFFs must pay the same taxes and forestry fees as SFFs.
1.11        Cooperative and individual forest farms.  About four million
specialized households produce wood for their own account end another 50
million have contracts with state or collective forest farms. Because of the
longer rotation needed for timber, individual producers produce mainly
fuelwood. Cooperative forest farms (CoopFFs) are a recent phenomenon,
consisting of groups of households that voluntarily combine to operate a small
forest farm as a partnership or shareholding venture. CoopFFs are generally
not intensively managed.
1.12        Information System.  In order to manage China's forest resources,
the MF0 has developed a very detailed data collection network based on
permanent sample plots.  Throughout virtually all .orest areas, plots of about
1.8 hectares are established 4 kilometers apart in a grid pattern. This dense
coverage results in as many as 10,000 plots per province. In these sample
plots, more than 40 physical parameters are measured every 5 years and the
data are compiled as a comprehensive inventory of the timber resource. In
each province, hundreds of people are employed to gather these data; aerial
photography and satellite imagery arq used very little. This manual



trigonometric system, while labor intensive and time consuming, is
sufficiently accurate and comprehensive for management purposes. At present,
however, MFO managers and planners cannot easily retrieve and aggregate these
abundant data in order to do effective planning, monitoring ot analys's at any
level. The situation is similar for marketing and wood processing, wkere
various institutions collect data that are not linked to each other for
investment decisions. Thus with the exception of environmental aspec.s, which
are still poorly surveyed, data collection is not a constraint. I.. is the
reporting and management of this in-ormation that requires improvement.
Prices and Markets
1.13        There are three regimes for marketing and pricing timber.  Most of
the timber produced on state forests in the northern region is allocatpd to
state industries under obligatory quotas. The prices are set by the
Government.   The State also buys some timber from other producers at
Onagotiated" or "guidance' prices. The rest of legally produced wood, as well
as illegally felled timber, is sold at msrket-determined prices. Virtually
all wood produced on SFF and collective plantations in the southern and
eastern provinces is sold on the free market. The free market price of wood
in the southern provinces is now at about world levels, and about double the
state-set price. 'Guidance' prices are between the two. After the Government
freed up wood prices and marketing in 1985, there was a marked increase in
both official and illegal wood production. It has proven difficult to enforce
logging limits and MFO has recently announced strengthened enforcement
measures.
Wood Processing
1.14        China has an extensive wood processing industry, which has
expanded rapidly since the decontrol of wood prices. There are several
thousand sawmills, about 650 panel factories, and 290 wood-based pulp mills.
The overall rate of capacity utilization is only 50 - 602 because of shortages
of -aw materials, parts and supplies. Apart from a few integrated complexes,
most sawmills and wood-based panel factories are small scale, and use labor-
intensive technology. The Government is now promoting fiberboard and
particleboard manufacturing because they make efficient use of smaller logs
and residues from sawing and plywood making. A number of modern processing
lines have recently been imported.
Forestry Research
1.15        The Chinese Academy of Forestry Science (CAF) is the main national
agency for forestry research. It operates seven institutes in Beijing and
three elsewhere. In addition, most provinces and some prefectures and
counties have forestry research institutes and forestry and agricultural
colleges carrying out research programs. CAF is responsible for a wide
variety of forest research programs that are carried out in cooperation with



provincial and college research instltutes. However, coordination of the
rese6-ch institutes that are not under the umbrella of CAP is oiten difficult
to achieve because of their different sources of funding. CAF is funded by
the central Government and the provincial research institutes are largely
funded by the provincial Governments. Also, field research trials need the
cooperation and funds of coirnty or state forest farms, which are difficult to
obtain.
1.16        Forestry Research in China has developed rapidly with an increase
of professional staff from 200 in 1949 to 7500 today working in the ten CAF
institutes, 16 provincial and 133 prefectural county research institutes. The
Government has established four species research centern for paulownia,
poplar, bamboo and eucalypts. The formulation of a strategy for research
focussed on individual species is in its early stages and will be further
developed under the proposed project.
Bank Involvement and Origin of the Prolect
1.17        The first Bank Group forestry project was the Forestry DevelopmeD8.
Project (Cr.1605 - CHA), approved in 1985. It financed the costs of
establishing and improving timber plantations and building forest roads on
about 92 State Forest Farms in Guangdong, Sichuan and Heilongjiang provinces.
It also financed buildings, equipment and training for four provincial
forestry research institutes and several extension stations. The plantation
and roads program were fully implemented ahead of schedule. The project was
designed before the MFO had introduced its high-yielding plantation program,
and therefore has generated few advances in silvicultural techniques. It has,
however, demonstrated the implementation capabilities of the State Forest
Farms and has given the MFO experience in accounting, disbursement,
procurement, planning and monitoring in a multi-province, IDA-financed
project. The project also gave the Bank the opportunity to evaluate the
research programs of the institutes that received project-financed equipment
and training. The technical standards for plantations under this ongoing
project have been upgraded to be consistent with those to be used under the
proposed National Afforestation Project.
1.18        After a huge fire bulrned 870,000 hectares of forest on China's
northeast border in May 1987, the Government prepared the Da Xing An Ling
Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project to salvage the burned timber and establish
a comprehensive fire protection system throughout the Da Xing An Ling forest
area. An IDA credit (Cr.1918 - CHA) was signed in July 1988. The Ministry
of Forestry, which has jurisdiction over the northern natural forests, is
irtplementing the project. The salvage of over 12 million cubic meters of
timber will be successfully completed in April 1990. In addition, fire losses
throughout the northern region have been greatly reduced due to new control
and detection procedures introduced under the project. This project's
successful and rapid implementation illustrates the Ministry's capacity to
mobilize workers and equipment, and to benefit from international technical
assistance.



- 7 -
1.19        Besides the two forestry projects, the First and Second
Agricultural Research Projects (both now completed) financed scientific
equipment for the Forest Resources Monitoring Centre. Some six Forestry
Training Colleges received support from the First Agricultural Research
Project and the Second Agricultural Education Project (also completed). A
forestry component in the Jiangxi Provincial Agriculture Development Project
(Cr. 2097 - CHA) will finance an afforestation program, using mainly pine, on
three state forest farms.
1.20        In 1981 the Government decided to undertake significant investment
in high-yielding forest plantations in order to slow down both the foreign
exchange drain from wood imports and the unsustainable exploitation of the
natural forests. In June 1988, the ;overnment requested Bank Group
cooperation to introduce state of the art technology to enhance the
productivity and quality of high-yielding plantations, and to finance the
establishment of such plantations on a national scale. In October 1988, the
National Afforestation Project (NAP) was identified and designed by an IDA
mission in close cooperation with MFO. The organizational structure,
management system, research focus and technical framework were developed
during the identification process and immediately implemented, under the close
supervision of the Minister of Forestry, as a part of project preparation.
During preparation, IDA provided international consultants to review the MFO's
practices and plans in the areas of genetics, tree breeding, seed production,
information systems, research management and silviculture. The National
Afforestation Project is envisaged as the first phase of a long term
investment pre-ram for Bank Group support. The MFO has already done much of
the preparation work for a second phase of the high-yielding plantation
program.
II. THE NATIONAL PLANTATION PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT'S ROLE
Forestry Strateay
2.1    In 1986 China launched a new initiative to develop its forest
resources by establishing more effective management systems. The main
elements of the initiative are: (a) increasing wood production from
intensively managed high-yielding plantations; (b) conservation and
sustainable utilization of the remaining natural forests; (c, farm forestry
programs for establishing shelter belts and woodlots for rural wood and energy
supply; and (d) protection of fragile ecological systems and watersheds.
The "Fast-Growing High-Yielding" Plantation Program
2.2     The MFO developed the 'fast-growing high-yielding" plantation program
as the main tool for achieving its wood production objectives. The phrase
'fast-growing high-yielding" essentially means intensively managed. The MFO
had already established several million hectares of non-intensively managed
timber plantations, including those under the IDA-financed Forestry
Development Project. These were planted on a wide range of sites, used
unselected seed material and received l1'tle or no fertilizer or other



treatments. The intensively managed plantations, by contrast, have the
following elements:
- sites have soil in the two highest of China's four forest soil
e' <sses;
- .ne seed is obtained from designated seed orchards or
stands of superior provenance; clonal material from superior
individuals is used;
- seedlings are grown in approved nurseries with careful management;
- planting densities and techniques, fertilizer application, weeding and
other silvicultural practices are prescribed for each species;
- there are annual growth targets for each species and the actual growth
is monitored against these standards.
A wide variety of deciduous and coniferous species is used;  the criterion for
selecting a species is its ability to achieve certain minimum annual growth
rates under given climatic and soil conditions. Intensively managed
plantations can yield about twice as much wood per hectare, depending on the
species, as 'ordinary' plantations. The growth targets that MFO has
established are realistic under present conditions and will produce acceptable
financial and economic returns. Still, they are well below world standards
and can be increased through the application of scientific and operational
research.
2.3         Some 1.2 million hectares of intensively managed Chinese fir,
eucalyptus, paulownia, pines and larch have already been planted in 20
provinces. There has been no comprehensive evaluation of the program so far,
but there have been significant successes in some aspects and for some
species. For example, tree breeding and provenance trials in paulownia,
poplar and Chinese fir have generated planting stock with significantly better
productivity and pest resistance. Several important weaknesses in the program
are also evident. For example, the genetic material being used for pine and
eucalyptus plantings is inferior. There has been little analysis of the costs
and benefits of various silvicultural treatments nor of how to manage stands
so as to optimize financial returns. The financing of plantations has not
been systematically linked to the implementation of technical standards and
the monitoring of results. Whereas SFFs have been well funded and provided
with technical support, collective and other types of forest farms' access to
funds and other support has depended on local governments, which have been
reluctant to invest in forestry because of the long wait for revenues and
investment opportunities in other projects with faster returns.   Where local
entities have established forest plantations, the technical standards have
often been inadequate and the financial returns mediocre.
2.4         Targets.  The MFO estimates that there are about 20 million
hectares of land suitable for planting intensively managed forests. Its
target is to establish 8 million hectares of such forests by 2000. Over 902
of this area will be in southern provinces, with 47Z concentrated in the five
provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi, Hunan, Fujian and Jiangxi. Of the overall
target, the present project would finance almost one million hectares. In
parallel with the 'fast-growing high yielding' program, the MFO will continue



- 9 -
to establish 'ordinary' plantations on poorer sites or where the climate does
not permit any species to achieve commercially viable growth rates.
Role of the Pro3ect in the Program
2.5         Project Area.  The project's plantation component would establish
about 13?  of the ten-year target for intensively managed plantations.   MFO
used the following criteria to select the provinces participating in the
project:
(i) ecological conditions and soil characteristics adequate for high
yielding forestry;
(ii) experience in establishing high yielding plantations, adequate
infrastructure, skilled labor force and a competent forest
administration; and
(iii) willingness to commit counterpart funds and ability to
repay the IDA credit.
Eleven of the project provinces (Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hunan, Hubei,
Sichuan, Yunnan, Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian and Jiangxi) are in southern China.
The project areas are mainly hilly and mountainous with elevations between 500
and 1000 m. The mean annual temperature ranges from 14 - 26 degrees C and the
annual rainfall from 800 - 2000 mm. The areas have a variety of soil types
such as red, yellow, yellow-brown and latosol soils. These soils are in
general deficient in phosphate but with adequate fertilizing they have good
potential for growing Chinese fir, masson pine and southern pines. The areas
with tropical climate - Guangdong and Yunnan - are most suitable for
eucalyptus and Yunnan pine. Henan, Hebei and Shandong are located in the
north/central plains region and Liaoning is in China's northeast region.
These four provinces have a temperate climate with a mean annual temperature
ranging from about 5 to 15 degrees C. The annual rainfall is 500 to 900 mm in
Shandong and 600 to 1500 mm in Liaoning. In Shandong, Hebei and Henan the
soil types are suitable for poplar, paulownia and black locust while the
conditions in Liaoning are particularly suitable for larch.
2.6         Technological Improvements.  Besides financing plantation
establishment, the project will act as a catalyst to introduce important
improvements in research and planting materials. It would introduce superior
seed and establish new seed orchards; introduce better silvicultural measures,
and focus research programs on improving the performance of key timber
species. Environmental standards for plantation establishment and management
will be introduced. These project activities are described in Chapter 3,
below. In preparing the project, MFO has introduced the use of financial and
economic analysis for selecting plantation investments. This process helped
MFO to identify the species, rotations and thinning regimes with the highest
returns and focussed attention on the potential for reducing production costs.
2.7         Management Improvements.  In order to design, prepare and
implement the project, the MFO has created a new management system and
organizational structure at the central, provincial and county levels. The
project will mobilize funds from several levels of government, as well as the



- 10 -
IDA credit, and will make them available to forest farms of all types on
similar terms. Project financing will be contingent on satisfactory technical
preparation and performance, which will be monitored by forestry staff at all
levels. To manage this system, the organizational links between the different
levels of the forestry bureaucracy have had to be strengthened. The newly
created project offices at each level, described in more detail in para. 4.2,
permit a direct chain of coomand for promulgation and monitoring of
performance down to the farm level, as well as a reporting and monitoring
chain in the opposite direction. These project offices will eventually form
the basis of a revamped afforestation department, in which the methods
developed for this project will be extended to the entire plantation program.
III. THE PROJECT
Obi?ctives and Scope
3.1         The project has six main objectives:
(a)   to expand the forest resources and reduce the gap between timber
production and consumption;
(b)   to improve the quality of the forest plantations through the use
of superior planting stock by better seed selection and expanding
clonal production and to increase the productivity of timber
forests by introducing and disseminating superior techniques of
plantation establishment and intensive management;
(c)   to introduce financial and economic analysis for forestry
investment so as to make more efficient use of resources;
(d)   to strengthen the research and extension programs that support
plantation forestry and improve their focus on species
performance;
(e)   to initiate an accelerated tree breeding program that increases
productivity of planting stock within 2 to 3 years; and
(f)   to create the organizational and managerial infrastructure to
plan, appraise, finance, implement and evaluate plantation
programs on a permanent basis.
3.2         It has the following elementss
(a)   Plantation Establishment:  establishment of 675,500 ha of
coniferous and 309,500 ha of broadleaved plantations in fifteen
provinces. The plantations would be established by state,
collective and cooperative forest farms.
(b)   Research:  Assistance for setting up the institutional
arrangements, research programs and scientific capability to focus



- 11 -
on four main areass genetic improvement to increase productivity
and quality of the most important species or species groups to be
planted under the project; fertilizer trials; mycorrhiza
inoculation1, and early wood property testing.
(c)   Improvement of Planting Material:  assistance for accelerated
development of superior plant material by improving seed
production areas, setting up large scale production of clonal
planting stock and initiating a hybridization program:
(d)   Organization and Management:  MFO has developed in cooperation
with IDA a new organization and management structure within the
central, provincial and county forest administrations to handle
the technical and financial aspects of the entire high-yielding
plantation program. The organization has already been implemented
and staffing will be completed during the first year of the
project. In addition, the project will introduce a monitoring and
information system to focus on the specific needs of the high-
yielding plantation program.
ge)   Environmental Management:  the project would introduce
environmental guidelines for high-yielding plantation schemes.
The guidelines cover maintenance of biological diversity and
species mix, pest control, soil and water conservation, fire
prevention and monitoring.
(f)   Forestry Sector Planning:  MFO will prepare pilot forest resource
management plans for three provinces. Funds will be provided fcr
technical assistance for review of these plans.
Detailed Features
3.3         Plantation Establishment.  The project would finance the
establishment of about 985,000 hectares of plantations using the following
major species:
675,500 hectares of conifers, of which:
341,800 Chinese Fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata)
71,900 Masson Pine (Pinus massoniana)
71,800 Slash Pine (Pinus elliottii) and
Loblolly Pine (Pinus taeda)
14,000 Yunnan Pine (Pinus yunnanensis)
176,000 Larch (Larix olgensis and larix leptolepsis)
309,500 hectares of broadleaved species, of which:
lThe application to soil of the mycelia of certain fungi that associate
symbiotically with the roots of plants and make available nutrients that would
otherwise be inaccessible to the plant.



- 12 -
184,700 Poplar (Populus spP.)
59,900 Eucalypt (Eucalyptus spp.)
20,000 Paulownia (Paulownia sPp.)
6,700 Albezzia (Parasieranthes falcataria)
23,000 Siberian Elm and Black Locust (Ulmus pumila and
Robinia pseudacacia)
13,200 other hardwoods.
A list of the plantation areas by species and province is given in Annex 1,
Table 1. The project would cover the total costs of preparing and planting
these areas and the costs of tending them for the first two to four years
after planting, depending on the species. The cost per hectare ranges from
yuan 1600 for poplar to yuan 2600 for Chinese fir, and about 75? of this is
labor cost. Detailed plans have been prepared and reviewed by IDA for about
602 of the total plantation area. MFO will finalize and furnish to IDA the
plans for the remaining 330,000 ha by November 1, 1990; an assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations.
3.4         These species were selected because of their growth potential,
suitability for the climatic and ecological conditions, the technical
experience already gathered in China and their marketability. The expected
productivity of each species provides acceptable economic returns and quality
in timber output even though they have not yet reached their full potential.
The development level of the productivity of each species varies from the most
advanced species such as paulownia to the less advanced such as masson pine.
The project thetefore emphasizes research, with a focus on improvement of the
genetic material, hybridization, wood quality, fertilizer application and
silvicultural regimes as an integral part of the production system.
3.5         Chinese fir is a high-value species native to China.  Because it
has been managed in both natural and planted stands for centuries, Chinese
foresters have an excellent knowledge of its site, silvicultural and growth
characteristics.  The target mean annual increment (MAI) 2 for project
plantations are 6.', 7.3 and 10.5 cum/ha on sites with site index 14, 16 and
18 respectively. In 14 years of trials, CAF tested 183 provenances from 13
provinces. The Da Gang Shan replication of Eastern Guizhou is the top seed
source; it produces 85? more wood than the average of all 183 provenances.
Further increases in productivity can be attained by applying clonal
propagation and better fertilizing and silvicultural measures.
3.6         Southern pines (slash and loblolly pine), which are playing an
increasing role in China's forestry, were introduced from North America.
Because of the poor quality of the original genetic material, the yields of
these species in China - about 11 cum/ha - are 301 to 402 below standards
achieved in the southern United States. By using imported seed, improving the
seed production areas and introducing a more appropriate fertilizer regime,
2 The measure of productivity of plantations is the mean annual increment
(MAI) of wood in cubic meters (cum) per hectare, which represents wood
production less harvesting losses and bark.



- 13 -
lower stocking density and other silvicultural improvements, the MAI on
project plantations is expected to rise to about 14 cumlha.
3.7         Masson pine is an indigenous species with a potential MAI of over
20 cum/ha. In fact, there are stands in Guangxi where masson pine produces
MAI over 30 cumlha. However, the quality of masson pine plantations in most
locations in China is generally very poor because they have been planted at
lower than optirl1 altitudes and on unsuitable sites. Masson pine planting in
the project will l'e concentrated on the most suitable sites. In addition,
MFO's improved tree breeding program to be implemented under the project
includes provenance trials, expansion of improved seed production areas,
development of clonal propagation and hybridization programs for masson pine.
There is sufficient improved planting stock now available to carry out the
plantation program of 66,500 ha.
3.8         Larch plantations will be established in the temperate climate of
Liaoning. They are designed to produce pulpwood on a relatively short
rotation. The target MAI is about 9 cum/ha. The climatic conditions may not
allow a significant increase in productivity but there are indications that
specific hybrids will improve yields. Thus research would concentrate on
improved silvicultural measures, hybridization, clonal production and
micorrhizal association to favor larger diameters for construction timber and
panel production.
3.9         China already produces half a million cum of commercial poplar
timber each year. Since 1976 over 300 clones of Populus deltoides, P. nigra
and P. x euramericana have been introduced, tested and inter-bred. Of these,
four groups of clones proved most suitable for the ecological conditions of
the project sites. Poplar will be planted at low density (330 - 630 stems/ha)
and inter-cropped for two to three years with peanuts, sweet potatoes, legumes
or wheat. The MAI target for project plantations is about 15 cum/ha. With
improved fertilizer regimes and some adjustments in silvicultural treatment,
the yield could eventually reach 30 cum/ha.
3.10        Eucalspt species have been grown in China for a long time.  MFO is,
currently emphasizing Eucalyptus exserta, E. citriodora, and "Leilin number
l", a spontaneous hybrid derived from E. exserta. These species are capable
of producing a crop on poor soil without intensive silvicultural treatment,
but they cannot produce the yields demanded for the high-yielding program.
Based on recent research carried out in southern China and supported by the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau, MFO has decided to
change its emphasis to Eucalyptus urophylla, E. grandis, and E. tereticornis.
The Central Research Groups (CRG) will play a key role in introducing these
species and developing over time the genetic base for establishing clonal
propagation systems. On good sites these species are expected to yield 15
cum/ha/yr, which is more than 50? higher than E. exserta. With the proposed
clonal propagation of superior material combined with applied research for
improving silvicultural regimes, the achievable MAI is significantly higher
than 20 cum/ha.
3.11        China has a long experience in cultivating paulownia, a native
species. Plantation establishment has dramatically increased over the last 15



- 14 -
years. CAF's research program, which was supported by Canada's International
Development Research Centre, has produced excellent results in improving the
genetic base and the silvicultural regime. The most commercially important
hybrids are Paulownia fortunei x tomentosa and P. tomentosa x catalpifolia.
The HAI is well above 20 cum/ha. Paulownia is intercropped with millet and
maize. To date China has established more than one million hectares of agro-
forestry schemes based on paulownia, the largest agro-forestry scheme in the
world.
3.12        The other hardwood species such as albizzia, Siberian elm, black
wattle, black locust, catalpa, sassafras, castonopsis and michelia are planted
for a variety of purposes and end uses. The total area to be planted is
41,900 ha, and no one species will exceed 7000 ha. The growth and production
characteristics of all these species fit well into the high-yielding program.
However, because of their minor importance they have not yet received much
attention in research and genetic improvement, and may thus be well below
their full production capacity. Some species, such as elm and black locust,
are propagated by clones. In general these species have been chosen for their
ecological benefits, their specific wood properties, for intercropping because
of their nitrogen fixing properties and for locally important end uses such as
tannin production.
3.13        Site selection.  Project plantations will be established on site
classes I and II of the four-class Chinese forest soil classification system.
In addition, China has established site index tables to classify the specific
productivity of a particular species on a given site. The tables are based on
dominant tree heights, which have a direct correlation to wood volume produced
per hectare. These site index tables have been developed primarily for
conifers. Under the project, conifers would be planted only on sites with the
highest indices; that is, between 14 and 20. Sites for broadleaved trees, on
the other hand, have been classified and selected on the basis of the HAI that
can be achieved by the species to be planted on the site.
3.14        Seed for project plantations.   Seeds for the plantations of
Chinese fir, masson pine, Yunnan pine, larch anc iome of the broadleaf species
will come from domestic sources. Poplar, paulownia and black locust will be
replicated by clonal propagation. Seeds for southern pine, Eucalyptus
urophylla, E. grandis, E. tereticornis and black wattle will be imported. For
Chinese fir, provenance and progeny testing since the 19708 has permitted the
establishment of several improved seed orchards, which will supply seed for
about 80Z of the project's Chinese fir plantings. The rest will come from
superior provenance stands already identified. Poplar and paulownia are the
species for which tree improvement in China is most advanced, and adequate
numbers of very productive clones are available for the project. There is a
shortage of masson pine seed from seed orchards but HFO is confident of
getting sufficient seed for the project from natural stands of superior
provenances. Although there has been much work in China on hybridizing
eucalypts, the Senetic base of the original Chinese stands was very narrow and
the quality has deteriorated over successive generations. In addition, the
species to be planted under the project - E. urovhylla, E. grandis and E.
tereticornis - have not been widely planted in China.  Therefore the Chinese
Academy of Forestry will import selected eucalyptus seed from Australia,



- 15 -
Brazil and Indonesia at a total cost of about US$ 425,000 equivalent. Many
seed orchards have been established for slash and loblolly pine, but the
provenances of most of the original material are unrecorded, making it
difficult to carry out systematic selection and breeding. The project would
therefore finance the import of high quality seed from the United States at a
total cost of US$760,000 equivalent. The seed for black wattle will be
imported from Australia and possibly India at a cost of about US$15,000. A
list of the quantities of seeds for the project is given in Annex 1, Table 2.
3.15        Nurseries.  The five billion seedlings required for the project
will be grown in about 40,000 nurseries. About 85Z of the seedlings will be
produced by specialized households under contract with forest farms or county
project offices, and the rest in larger nurseries operated by county forestry
bureaus or on the forest farms themselves. For the small household nurseries,
the county forestry bureau provides the seeds or clonal planting material,
supervises the work and monitors quality. These small nurseries generally
produce stock of acceptable physical quality at an average cost of 0.05 Yuan
per seedling. Reliance on small local nurseries is appropriate for this
project because seedlings must be planted immediately after they are lifted
from the nursery, and transport conditions are generally poor. Combined with
the abundance of labor and the high cost of mechanization, this makes it
undesirable to establish large scale centralized and mechanized nurseries.
For the purpose of disbursements, the cost of seedlings (excluding the foreign
costs of imported seeds) has been incorporated in plantation establishment
costs.
3.16        Planting and Silvicultural Management.  The MFO's present
standards for plantation management--covering land clearing, site preparation,
planting and spacing, weeding, fertilizing, plant protection, thinning and
rotation length--are codified in a detailed 1986 manual entitled 'Standards
on Fast Growing and High field PLantations' A translation is in the project
file. These national standards are adapted by provincial and county foresters
to local conditions and experience. The present standards will give
satisfactory yields and economic returns. An assurance would be obtained at
negotiations that all project plantations would be planted and maintained in
accordance with these regulations. Internal rates of return were estimated
for a variety of plantation models proposed for inclusion under the project,
and only regimes with acceptable results were chosen. Some of these models
are illustrated in Annex 1, Table 3.   Nonetheless, the present standards
still produce results that are below the species' known potential.   Many
practices, such as elaborate site preparation, high stocking densities,
particular fertilizer prescriptions, late and limited thinning, and long
rotations are not supported by scientific evidence or do not optimize the
cost-benefit relationship. Thus research will focus on these topics to
upgrade the standards once the scientific results or better practices are
available.
3.17        Accelerated Development of Improved Plant Material.  Genetic
improvement of forest plantations can be achieved in two ways. First, proven
planting material developed through basic research can be introduced
immediately in pilot or commercial plantations. For poplar and paulownia in
China, this stage has been reached. Second, the production of plant material



- 16 -
that is known to be superior to prevailing material but not yet fully tested
can be accelerated. The project would support such accelerated production to
make it possible to introduce improved genetic material on a wide scale. The
material can be introduced into commercial plantations within two to three
years, rather than the 10 years it would take to fully test and develop new
genetic material. Based on work already carried out by CAF and guidelines
established during appraisal, the component would include the following
activities:
(a)   improved management of seed production stands of a total of 100 ha
of masson pine in S provinces and 140 ha of larch in one province.
Existing stands will be evaluated and culled to a density of 100
high quality trees per hectare. In addition, new seed orchards for
masson pine and southern pine will be established;
(b)   establishment of clonal nurseries of 40 ha for eucalypts in 2
provinces and 50 ha of Chinese fir in 6 provinces. This will make
it possible immediately to replicate high quality plant material
to be used in project plantations; and
(c)   implementation of a hybridization program to cross masson pine
with southern and caribbean pines and Larix leptolepsis with L.
olgensis and L. principis-rupprechtii.
There is a well defined genetic improvement strategy in place for paulownia
and poplar and a considerable amount of tree breeding and selection work has
been done on Chinese fir. The other project species, however, will require
increased inputs. The project's research component would include several
specific measures to support long-term improvements in genetic material for
all the major species. The planting material development program will be
financed mainly by GOC and provincial funds; the credit will cover the foreign
exchange cost of 24 weeks of technical assistance and of study tours. The
detailed program is outlined in Annex 3. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that MFO will carry out the agreed planting material development
program and will prepare an annual report on the program's activities during,
the preceding year.
3.18        Research.  To support the plantation program, the MFO and the
Chinese Academy of Forestry (CAF) have launched new research programs
organized around individual species or groups of species, rather than on a
geographic basis, and have tied them closely to extension to ensure rapid
transmission of research results. The MFO will establish Research and
Extension Support Panels within the central and provincial Project Offices
(see paragraph 4.6). The CAF has already established Central Research Groups
(CRG) for paulownia, poplar and larch and is now establishing one for
eucalyptus; these CRGs will be expanded and completed under the project. In
addition, new CRGs for Chinese fir, exotic pine, masson pine and a group of
broadleaf species will be set up during project implementation.   While the
paulownia and poplar programs are well established and will serve as models
for the other CRGs, the larch and eucalypt programs would need further
assistance. CAP has prepared five-year research programs for larch, eucalypt,
Chinese fir, southern pines, masson pine, poplar and other broadleaf species,



- 17 -
as well as a fertilizer research program. These are in the project file. The
programs would include work on genetics, plant propagation, plant nutrition,
forest protection, silviculture, and utilization including early wood testing.
These programs, which would be discussed and agreed at negotiations, are
described in Annex 2. The CRGs would plan and design the research and guide
the field work, and task forces of provincial research staff would do the
field work and extend the results. The incremental cost for the high yielding
research program is Yuan 40.5 million over 6 years to cover scientific staff,
technicians, skilled and temporary labor, travel and equipment for technical
assistance, overseas study tours, the scientific advisory panel (see paragraph
4.7) and inputs such as seed and fertilizer.   At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that MFO would carry out the agreed research program and would
prepare and discuss with IDA an annual scientific report on the activities and
achievements of the research program during the preceding year.
3.19        Pilot Plantations.  In order to facilitatt continuous improvements
in planting stock and silvicultural practices, the prolect would establish or
select about 50 pilot plantations of about 20 to 100 hectares each for testing
and evaluation of specific treatments.   hFO would se ect appropriate SFFs
that have access to skilled labor and technical staff for monitoring and
evaluating the program. The pilot plantations will cost about Y 800 per
hectare more than average project plantations and this incremental :ost will
be financed by the counties or the provinces. The pilot plantations would be
designed to explore alternative silvicultural systems. Emphasis would also be
gtven to thinning regimes, because alternative treatments can be applied
immediately to existing plantations. In newly established pilot plantations,
assessments would be made of lower initial stocking densities, a range of
chemical fertilizer regimes, lower cost site preparation and low intensity
weed control. Specifically for testing the output of the accelerated planting
stock program, pilot plantations would be the appropriate intermediate step
before commercial application. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
MFO will prepare by November 1, 1990 a detailed program for implementing this
activity.
3.20        Extension.   Extension as it is conceived under the project is an
information system to transfer rapidly research results to the operational
activities and a feed-back system into research. The system for extending
research results to field operations in the project areas is organized at
three levels. The first level is composed of a newly created Research and
Extension Advisory Panel (RESP) in the central Project Office, which advises
the CRGs about disseminating their research results. The second level is
composed of 16 provincial forest research institutes. Their advisory service
provides the regional specifics in accordance with the local conditions. The
third level is composed of forest extension units at prefecture and county
level, comprising 133 forest research institutes at prefecture level, 224
technological extension stations and forest work stations at county level.
This structure provides the framework for developing and introducing new
forest techniques, changes in technical standards, popularizing scientific
results and training of forestry staff, managers of cooperative and villages
forest farms, and individual farmers.



- 18 -
3.21        The thrust of the project would be to establish specific links
among the Central Research Groups in CAF, the provincial and county research
institutes and the Department of Afforestation in the MFO, the provincial and
county forest offices and the forest farms to ensure a flow of information in
both directions - that is, from the operational activities to the researchers
and back to the field. The provincial task forces related to the CRGs are a
key element in the extension system for screening research and channeling the
results into the field activities. Research trials and pilot plantations are
the tools for demonstration and training. Training, seminars and workshops
will disseminate information. No incremental staff or financing is required.
MFO will provide the design of a communication system and a training program
by November 1990 to be reviewed by IDA.
3.22        Pilot Information System for MFO.  The Project Offices at the
central, provincial and county levels, which are described in paragraph 4.2,
below, need to be linked to each other and to related outside agencies by an
information system. As a first step, the project will finance the purchase of
personal computers and software for the provincial project offices and for two
pilot county project offices, along with related technical assistance and
training.
3.23        Forest Resource Management Plans.  The project is focussed on wood
production as a first step to improving the management, utilization,
processing and marketing of China's forest resources. In order to place this
high priority effort into a broader context, MFO has agreed to begin preparing
forest resource management plans for provinces. These plans will cover the
sustainable utilization and conservation of natural forests, fuelwood and
timber production, rehabilitation of degraded areas, forest reserves and
parks, shelterbelts, windbreaks and erosion control. They would also serve as
master plans for future investments. As a first step, MFO will select three
model provinces in different ecological areas to prepare such forest
management plans. The three proposed provinces are Liaoning, Henan and
Yunnan. An assurance was received that the draft model plans would be
discussed with IDA by June 30. 1991. MFO staff would prepare the plans on the
basis of the detailed inventory and industry data that each county and
province already collects. The IDA credit would finance technical assistance
for advising on the draft plans before they are discussed with IDA. Based on
the experienced gained in these three provinces, the plans for the remaining
project provinces would then be prepared by December 31, 1992. These plans
could serve as a basis for future Bank Group support to the forestry sector.
Environmental Aspects
3.24        The plantation program as a whole produces significant
ervironmental benefits by afforesting land that is bare or covered with
grasses, shrubs, or sparse trees. Priority is given to selection of barren
land (i.e. sparsely covered with grasses) for plantation establishment.
Furthermore, the plantations will be planned and managed so as to minimize
potential environmental problems from insect ar.' disease outbreaks, soil
erosion and fertility loss, fire and ecological impoverishment. The
Government has prepared a satisfactory set of environmental guidelines for the



- 19 -
afforestation program. At r.egatiations, an assurance was obtained that all
project plantations would be established and maintained in accordance with
these guidelines. The guidelines deal with the subjects described in more
detail in paras. 3.25 through 3.29 below. Provincial project offices will
prepare plans for the implementation of these guidelines, including
adaptations to regional and local biophysical conditions. In addition, MFO
has prepared and discussed with IDA a satisfactory training program for staff
at the central, provincial, county and AE levels in the areas of environmental
assessment and monitoring, soil and water conservation, fire rc,ntrol and
handling and use of pesticides.
MFO has allocated an adequate budget to carry out this training.
3.25        SPecies mix.  About 752 og the area planted will be in species
native to China (Chinese fir, Hasson pine, larch, poplar, paulownia and other
hardwoods). The silvicultural and technical standards and the environmental
guiidelines developed for the project will, if applied properly, reduce the
environmental risks of monoculture plarLations, particularly to insect and
disease outbreaks. No large contiguous bxpanse of single species plantations
will be established; rather, there will be mixtures of blocks of single
species. The species, size, and configuration of these blocks will be
determined by site condition and topography. Since the terrain of most of the
participating counties is hilly and interspersed with agricultural land,
single species blocks would in any case be relatively small. Further, the
environmental guidelines etipulate that a single species block should not
exceed 100 ha.  These blocks will be divided by strips of natu:-  or planted
broadleaved trees for protection purposes (e.g., firebreaks, erosion control,
seed trees). Such a mosaic greatly reduces the risk of catastrophic loss due
to insect and disease outbreaks, and enhances the ecological benefits of
plantations.
3.26        Soil conservation and management.   Soil erosion is a major
problem in China. Although soil loss and degradation is generally less severe
on tree plantations than on agricultural land, it nevertheless exists. The
MFO has already established technical standards for the purpose of soil and
water conservation on plantations. The environmental guidelines introduced
under this project will strengthen these standards by requiring that all
stands must be plented along the contour; forbidding the collection of fallen
leaves and branches in plantations, and requiring the establishment of 'mitre
drains' along firebreaks bare of trees. In addition, soil conservation
trial/demonstration plots will be established to introduce and evaluate the
effects of planting vetiver grass, planting trees in "VI shaped ditches and
other practices on tree growth, soil and water conservation and soil
fertility. Five trial/demonstration areas of about five hectares each will be
established in Guangdong and Jiangxi provinces. Sites will have a variety of
soil types, slopes and tree species, and each trial site will be paired with a
control site.
3.27        Pest control.  Integrated pest management has been practiced for
msny years in Chinese forestry. Because of the high cost of chemical
pesticides, Chinese foresters rely principally on biological methods of
control and other techniques of integrated pest management. Local pest and
disease forecasting stations monitor pest population and infestation levels.



- 20 -
The technical standards for site selection for each species include pest
control conoiderations because stands are less vulnerable when planted on
optimal sites. Viruses and natural predators are used against certain insect
pests: intercropping with field crops limits pest infestations in poplar and
paulownia, and breeding for pest resistance is done in a number of species.
Of the major species to be planted under the project, Masson pine is the most
vulnerable to pest damage, from the pine caterpillar. The main means of
control are proper site selection and use of Bacillus thuringiensis for
biological control. There is an active research program in pest control that
focuses on specific insect and disease problems in commercial tree species.
Chemical pesticides are reserved mainly for severe outbreaks. The project is
expected to finance some US$2.3 million in pesticides. All the products
expected to be procured are registered with the relevant GOC authorities and
have been approved for forestry use by the National Environmental Protection
Agency. Pesticides are applied mainly by hydraulic knapsack and hand-held
ultra-low volume spraying, and, when the outbreak is severe, aerial spraying.
Training will be provided for farm and county level personnel, as part of the
environment training program described in para. 3.24 above, in safe handling
and use of pesticides. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
pesticides for project plantations will be selected, procured and handled in
accordance with IDA guidelines. The HFO maintains a quarantine system for
inter-province transfer of seeds and seedlings, and the Ministry of
Agriculture quarantines material imported from abroad. Because of the large
quantity of tree seeds to be imported under the project, the MFO has
strengthened its regulations and will cooperate closely with Ministry of
Agriculture inspectors.
3.28        Fire control.  The MFO requires firebreaks to be established in
all new plantations. Fire is not expected to be a serious risk in this
project because of this requirement, along with the presence of natural
broadleaved stands and the abundant rainfall in the southern regions. Since
the Da Xing An Ling forest fire in 1987, the financing and management of
forest fire detection and control have been improved throughout China. Fire
control command offices have been established at national, provincial and
county levels. The environmental guidelines specifically require AEs to have
fire prevention and control plans.
3.29        Maintenance of forest diversity.  Although most project
piantations will be established on land that is either barren or covered with
only grasses and shrubs, some 20Z of the area may involve clearing of severely
degraded secondary forests. Severely degraded forest is defined as having less
than 302 crown closure.   Most AEs will repay their financing under the
project in the form of shares of timber felled at thinning or final harvest of
the project plantations. Thus they will not be obliged to harvest natural
stands to service project financing. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that no forested land with more than 302 tree cover, with
historical or cultural significance or that ib a habitat for rare plants or
animals will be harvested in order to create or finance project plantations.



- 21 -
Project Costs and Financing
3.30        The total project costs are estimated at US$ 499.6 million,
including a foreign exchange component of USS 66.5 million or about 132 of
total project costs. The afforestation costs are based on detailed estimates
of the per hectare costs for each tree species, which are shown in Annex 1,
Table 5. Price contingencies of US$ 22.8 million are included. Price
escalation expressed in yuan has been estimated at 102 for 1991, 8? for 1992
and 52 for 1993 to 1996. Price contingencies expressed in US dollars are
based on annual international price escalation rates of 4.9Z for 1991 through
1996. No need for physical contingencies is expected because the project
sites have been selected and surveyed. If unexpected cost increases do occur,
an AE or county can simply reduce the area to be planted. Taxes and duties
are not included in project costs; imported materials are exempt from duties.
Project costs are summarized in the table below, and the detailed costs are
given in Annex 1, Table 4.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local   Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   FE   2 of
------Y million-------   ----US$ million----    2  Base
Cost
Afforestation        1,904.3  284.5  2,188.8  403.4   60.3  463.7   13   97.0
Research and Pilot      31.9    8.9       40.8    6.7    1.9    8.6   22    2.0
Plantations
Accelerated Plant-       6.2    6.1       12.3    1.3    1.3    2.6   48    0.5
ing Material Dev.
Information System       7.2    1.6        8.8    1.6    0.3    1.9   18    0.5
Total Base Cost      1,949.6  301.1  2,250.7  413.0   63.8  476.8   14  100.0
Price Contingencies   408.4   55.7       464.1   20.1    2.7   22.8   11    5.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST  2,358.0  356.8   2,714.8  433.1   66.5  499.6   14  105.0
3.31     Financing.  The proposed IDA credit of SDR 230 million (US$ 300
million equivalent)  will rover 60? of total project costs, including 1002 of
the foreign exchange costs and 54? of local costs. Counterpart funding will
cover the balance of project costs. The structure of counterpart funding will
vary from province to province. A typical financing package will be:
32  -  Prefecture/municipality
10?  -  Provincial government and Provincial Forestry  Bureau
122  -  County government and County Forestry Bureau
152  - Afforestation entity



- 22 -
60Z - IDA
1001 - Total
In cases where no prefecture or municipality government will be involved, the
provincial and county governments' proportions will be higher.
3.32          Sources of counterpart financing.  Local and provincial
government financing will come from budget revenues, and in general this will
represent less than 0.5? and 22 of annual provincial and county budgets,
respectively. Both the AEs and the County Forestry Bureaus will obtain part
of their counterpart contributions from the accumulated proceeds of the
reforestation and reinvestment funds. These have been generated by special
fees that AEs must pay on timber sales and are earmarked for tuture forestry
development purposes. Combined, these fees represent a total of 18? of gross
sales revenues. One third (or 62 of total sales) of the fees paid are
retained in a type of escrow account in the name of the AE that paid them.
ABs will use these accumulateJ funds as part of their equity contribution to
the project. The remaining two thirds of the fees (12X of total sales) is
paid into special accounts held by the County Forestry Bureau. The counties
will use these funds as part of their counterpart contribution. The remainder
of the AEs' contribution will be provided from retained earnings and, in the
case of collective and cooperative forest farms, about one-third of their
contribution can be provided as direct labor. This can be either voluntary
work by local people, or hired labor performed at a discounted wage. In some
instances, local industries (e.g. papermaking and mining) will invest in
plantation establishment in exchange for future wood delivery.
Procurement
3.33          The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
The labor costs of plantation establishment and tending (US$ 447.6 million)
account for 90Z of total project costs. The work required to establish new
plantations is widely scattered and must be scheduled according to the time of
year and availability of seedlings. It will therefore be carried out by
casual labor paid on a piece work basis and managed and supervised by the
staff of the AE. Each forest farm will recruit workers individually from the
local area and pay them according to prevailing local wage rates. The
procedures would be acceptable to IDA. Since most farms have already done
this for several years, there are established local labor markets for this
seasonal forestry work. A few large SFFs may also carry out some of the work
on force account.
3.34           The procurement by ICB and LIB procedures of fertilizer,
pesticides, seeds, computers and other equipment for the project will be
handled by a central procurement section in the P0 in MFO. MFO has engaged
the China National Instrument Import and Export Corporation as its procurement
agent. A margin of preference equal to 15? of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will
be allowed to domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures.
Specialized scientific equipment and related computers up to a maximum of US$
2.0 million will be procured by Limited International Bidding (LIB)



- 23 -
procedures.    Small tools, office, computer and laboratory equipment up to a
maximum of US$1.0 million will be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to IDA. Imported tree seeds (US$1.5 million) will be
purchased directly from foreign research institutes or firms because their
genetic suitability is the only criterion for choice. Training and technical
assistance (US$ 1.6 million) would be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. All goods would be packaged whenever
practicable to attract competition. All packages valued at over US$200,000
and all pesticide tenders of any value will be subject to prior review by
IDA.
PROCUREMEhT PROFILE
(US$ million)
ICB        LIB       lCB     Other/a        Total
Fertilizer              45.0                                         45.0
(45.0)                                       (45.0)
Pesticides               2.3                                          2.3
( 2.3)                                       ( 2.3)
Seeds                                                    1.5          1.5
( 1.5)       ( 1.5)
Office and Scientific
Equipment, Computers, Tools        1.0       0.6                     1.6
X 1.0)    ( 0.6)                  ( 1.6)
TA & Training                                            1.6          1.6
( 1.6)       ( 1.6)
Plantation Establishment                               447.6        447.6
(248.0)      (248.0)
Total                    47.3       1.0       0.6      450.7        499.6
( 47.3)    ( 1.0)    ( 0.6)   (251.1)       (300.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the credit.
/a Includes shopping, direct procurement and force account.
Disbursement
3.35          Funds from the Credit will be disbursed on the following basis:



- 24 -
(a) Materials and Equipment (SDR 40 million): for fertilizers,
pesticides, imported seeds, equipment, tools and spare parts:   100?
of the foreign exchange costs, 1002 of the ex-factory price for
locally manufactured items and 40? of other items procured locally.
(b) Plantation Establishment Costs (SDR 165.5 million): for labor and
small tools for the establishment and tending of plantations: 52? of
the total cost. These disbursements will be made against an agreed
schedule of unit costs per hectare for each species, supported by
progress reports. This schedule will apply to all work done through
June 30, 1991 and will thereafter be revised yearly on the basis of
actual cost experience recorded in audited statements of expenditure
and monitored by supervision missions.
(c) Consultancy Services, Studies and Training (SDR 1.5 million): 100?
of total costs of consultancy services and overseas training and
study tours.
(d) Unallocated (SDR 23 million).
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for
expenditures relating to plantation establishment, training and study tours,
and to studies and contracts for goods and services each costing less than
US$ 200,000 equivalent. The supporting documents for SOEs would be retained
by the provincial Project Offices, and the central Project Office could
retrieve them as required for IDA supervision missions. In the case of LIB
and LCB contracts, disbursements would be made against the contracts
themselves and other supporting documents.
3.36          In order to disburse the credit proceeds efficiently, a special
account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with an
initial deposit of US$17.9 million, equivalent to the credit's financing of
average expenditures for four months during the first three years.
Applications for replenishment of this account will be submitted monthly, or
whenever the account is drawn down by about 50? , whichever comes first.
Retroactive financing of up to US$20 million would be provided against
expenditures made after March 5, 1990 for fertilizer, seeds, seedling
production and site preparation for the first year of planting.
3.37          The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996 and
the Closing Date would be December 31, 1997. The estimated schedule of
disbursement is given in Annex 1, Table 7. Over 80% of disbursements will be
made during the first four years, while the plantations are being established;
relatively small amounts will be disbursed for tending activities, research
and technical assistance during the final two years. This schedule is
considered reasonable because in most locations the project would finance an
expansion of existing activities and has been prepared in detail, and because
the MFO so rapidly implemented the afforestation component of the Forestry
Development Project (see paragraph 1.17). The schedule is slightly longer
than the profile for specific investment loans in China in order to
accommodate the expenditures on tending the plantations to be established in
years 3 and 4.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Proiect Management
4.1      The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Forestry, the
Provincial Forestry Offices of the 15 participating provinces and over 300
County Forestry Bureaus, with the Ministry of Forestry having the overall
responsibility for project management. Leading groups (steering committees)
have been formed at the central, provincial and county levels. The central
leading group would approve the annual work and financing plan for project
implementation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this plan would
be furnished to IDA for review by December 31 of each year. At each level,
project offices (POs) have also been established to plan, manage and supervise
the project. The project organization has been set up as a separate
department in the MFO. It works closely with, and gets technical and
administrative support from, other related departments. An organization chart
for the whole project is shown in Annex 4. By drawing on staff and support
from the existing afforestation divisions, which are responsible for
plantation forestry, MFO has kept the project department relatively small.
Ultimately, MFO intends to apply the intensive management practices and
financing mechanisms introduced for this project to the entire plantation
program, and to have the project organization absorb the existing
afforestation units.
4.2      Project management at the national, provincial and county levels
would be organized as follows:
(a) National. The national leading group consists of the Minister
of Forestry; two vice ministers; the directors of the Academy of Forest
Inventory and Planning, the Chinese Academy of Forestry, and the National
Tree Seed and Seedling Corporation. and directors of several MFO departments.
This group sets the principles and policies for the plantation program,
approves the project's overall implementation plan, and coordinates the
Ministry's activities with the State Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). The national Project Office has
overall responsibility for project design, execution and monitoring. It is
headed by a project director who reports directly to the Minister. About 40
staff work in the PO, which operates as a separate department and has eight
divisions. The PO establishes and monitors guidelines on the technical
standards, accounting and management procedures that the provinces should
follow, and approves the provinces' project implementation plans. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that the MFO will maintain the PO with
staffing, functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA.
(b) Provincial. The provincial leading groups consist of
representatives of the Provincial Planning Commission, the Department of
Finance, ABC and the Provincial Forestry Department. They determine
provincial policies; approve the provincial planta-.ion program and mobilize
provincial counterpart funds. The provincial P09, which are within the



- 26 -
Provincial Forestry Departments, assist counties in planning afforestation
schemes and approve the feasibility study for each proposed plantation to be
financed under the project. The PO is responsible for ensuring that
counterpart funds from the prefecture and provincial governments have been
committed. The provincial POs will also adapt the national environmental
guidelines and implement project-related staff training programs. Each
participating provincial government will enter into a Project Implementation
Agreement (PIA) with the Ministry of Forestry. The PIA describes the
standards and conditions under which the province agrees to carry out the
project, as well as the terms and conditions of onlending the proceeds of the
IDA credit. At negotiations, an assurance was received that the terms of the
PIAs would be acceptable to IDA. It would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that PIAs be executed with all project provinces.
(c) County. In County Forestry Bureaus where fast-growing high-
yielding afforestation divisions already existed, these divisions have been
designated as project offices; elsewhere, POs have been newly established.
County POs have a key role in the project because they work directly with
afforestation entities to design plantation schemes for the provincial PO's
approval. Once the provincial PO has approved an AEl's feasibility study for a
project plantation, the county PO authorizes the disbursement of project funds
to the AE from the ABC account (see paragraph 4.15) as the stages of work are
completed. County P0 ensure that AEs adhere to the technical and
environmental guidelines for plantation management and timber production and
they establish and enforce regulations about the harvesting of timber. The
Pos are responsible for ensuring that counterpart funds are available from
county governments and, as applicable, local investors. The county's
responsibilities for project implementation and financing are governed by PIAs
to be signed between the provincial and county governments. The standard text
of these agreements is acceptable to IDA.
Afforestation Entities
4.3      The afforestation entities (AEs) are the production units that will
establish plantations under the project. They are State Forest Farms (SFFs),
Collective Forest Farms (CollFFs) and Cooperative Forest F&Cms (CoopFFs).
These entities are described in paragraphs 1.8 through 1.11. Silvicultural
Investment Companies (SICs), a new financial intermediary, are described
below.
(a) State Forest Farms. About 25? of project funds will be on-lent to
some 360 SFFs. One third of this amount will be used for plantings on SFFs'
own land, and the reqt on nearby lands controlled by township and village
CollFFs and individual households belonging to CoopFF8. Under formal share
arrangements - in essence, leases - with these entities, the SFF pays the
costs of planting, maintenance and harvesting, and is responsible for repaying
the project loan. Depending on the terms of the share arrangement, the
members of collectives and households may contribute some of the labor
required for planting and tending, and they may be responsible for marketing
their share of the timber output. The SFF typically gets 752 of the revenues
from thinnings and final felling and the CollFF around 25; the ratio varies



- 27 -
according to how the production responsibilities were divided. The use of the
SFFs' earnings is regulated by the Provincial Forestry Department. A large
proportion of earnings must be paid in taxes and special forestry fees, and
the balance typically nust be reinvested in forestry or used to cover direct
operating expenses.
(b) Collective and Cooperative Forest Farms. Over 70Z of project funds
will be channeled to more than 13,000 Collective Forest Farms through various
mechanisms. In some cases, township and village councils will borrow funds on
behalf of the CollFFs and in other instances, CollFFs will enter into share
agreements with SFFs and SICs.   About 5? of project funds will be channeled
to CoopFFs and individual households, and this will be done through share
agreements with SFFs and SICs.
(c) Silviculture Investment Companies. In Guangdong and Fujian
Provinces, some 25 SICs have recently been set up. They provide financing to
a collective for plantation establishment in return for a share of the final
product. The SIC, while a separate legal entity, is in effect a subsidiary of
the County Forestry Bureau. It mobilizes resources from various government
sources; supervises all operations, maintains accounts, and distributes
earnings. Of the project funds to be channelled to CollFFs and CoopFFs, about
107 will be handled by these SICs.
4.4      Execution of Project Works.  All types of AEs will rely, as they
already do, mainly on hired casual labor to do the planting, tending and
harvesting. They will hire local farmers and unemployed persons and pay them
on the basis of work completed, rather than an hourly wage. CollFFs and
CoopFFs will also use voluntary work by local residents for a small part of
their labor needs. All the AEs selected for the project already have
supervisors and administrators in place who can handle increased work. The
ABs will be responsible for building forest tracks needed to reach the new
plantation areas: these are hand-built mountain paths requiring no engineering
design or equipment. AEs will also hire workers to harvest the stands; this
too is a manual operation, with felling done by saw or axe, and logs carried
to the roadside on workers' shoulders or by animal cart.
4.5      National Tree Seed and Seedling Company.  This commercial entity
within the MFO is responsible for coordinating and monitoring seed production
and distribution at the national level. It also provides technical and
financial input to its provincial branches for establishing and maintaining
seed stands, handling and storage facilities, and clonal propagation
nurse.ies. In addition, it controls all commercial imports, exports and
interprovincial transfers of seed and clonal material.
Research and Extension Organization
4.6      The project department at the central level and the project offices
on the provincial and county levels are responsible for planning and
implementing the nine species research programs and the related extension
activities as described in paragraphs 3.18 and 3.20. At each level, MFO has
created a research and extension support panel CRESP) to determine, plan and



- 28 -
guide implementation of research and extension programs, provide technical
advisory service and determine related training programs. The nine central
research groups (CRG) would be organized under the RESP. Each CRG would
consist of two coordinators and a variable number of scientists of different
disciplines from universities, the Chinese Academy of Forestry or provincial
research institutes, depending on the requirements for each group. Each CRG
would be located in a central place, such as a provincial forestry research
institute, that is close to field research sites and has adequate facilities.
The CRG would be responsible for planning the research programs, designing
trials, carrying out or supervising field research work, hiring specialists
and developing partnerships with centers of excellence abroad. The provincial
and county RESPs would provide the regional scientific support for the CRGs
and focus on the specific ecological conditions in provinces with significant
plantations of each of the key species groups. In this way, provinces and
counties would provide substantial support in the form of personnel.
laboratories, equipment, field sites and funds to the CRG research program.
The RESPs would also be responsible for extension of research results as
quickly as possible to the operational level.
4.7      It is essential that the RESPs and CRGs be staffed with first rate
scientists. At appraisal, IDA reviewed and found acceptable the proposed
research staff.   In addition, MFO will prepare by November 1990 a plan for
training and study tours for research staff. Further, to ensure that the
highest standards and most up to date methods are applied, a scientific
advisory panel of international research leaders in each discipline would
review from time to time each CRG's research plans, experimental design and
results obtained. The project would finance the cost of the 30 weeks of
technical assistance needed for this purpose.
Environmental Management
4.8      The National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) has the major
responsibility for environmental protection in China. But because of
financial and human resource constraints, NEPA and its provincial and county,
counterparts have focused on industrial and urban pollution problems and left
the environmental/ecological aspects of natural resources management to the
responsible line ministries such as the Ministries of Agriculture and
Forestry. Thus MFO will have primary responsibility for environmental
monitoring and management of this project.
4.9      The MFO's environmental guidelines for afforestation projects, which
IDA reviewed and found acceptable, are summarized in paragraphs 3.25 through
3.29, above. The central Project Office will have the overall responsibility
for monitoring adherence to the guidelines. The central PO has an environment
group that includes representatives of MFO's Forest Protection Department, the
Inventory and Design Institute and tile Chinese Academy of Forestry. A
parallel group will be formed in each provincial PO. Each provincial PO will
adapt the guidelines to regional and local conditions and designate sites and
develop a plan for environmental monitoring. In each county PO, one person
will be designated the environment officer responsible for coordinating and
monitoring AEs' environmental activities. Each province will submit to the



- 29 -
central Po before negotiations a detailed implementation plan covering these
and other steps. The central PO has developed a training program for project
staff at all levels with responsibilities for implementing and monitoring the
environmental guidelines. Instructors will be drawn from NEPA, MFO's
environment and monitoring and assessment units, and provincial and county
level environment officials. The training program will include courses in
environmental monitoring and assessment, soil and water conservation, and fire
prevention. For county and AE staff, classes in environmental aspects of
plantation management and pesticide handling and use will also be given.
Flow of Funds and Cost Recovery
4.10     Onlending Terms and Conditions.  The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will
on-lend the IDA credit to the MFO for 20 years. The on-lent IDA funds will
be denominated in US dollars for expenditures incurred in foreign exchange
(about 142 of the credit), and in yuan for the remainder. Thus the M4FO will
bear the exchange risk only for the portion it actually disburses in foreign
exchange. The interest rate on the US dollar portion will be 4.52 asd on the
yuan portion 6.52. MFO will have an 8-year grace period on principal and
interest repayment. Interest during the grace period will be capitalized.
MFO will onlend the IDA funds to the Provincial Governments on the same terms
as the loan from MOF to MFO and will be governed by the Project Implementation
Agreements (PIAs) between the MFO and each province (see para. 4.2 (b)).
While a portion of each province's sub-loan will be denominated in US dollars,
the MFO will actually retain control of the foreign exchange for the purpose
of procuring imported seeds, fertilizer and pesticides. The provinces will
onlend IDA funds to county governments or, in some cases, to prefecture or
municipality governments on the same terms as the loans from MFO to the
Provinces. This intermediate onlending is governed by implementation
agreements of which the standard text is acceptable to IDA. The county
project offices will channel both IDA and counterpart funds to the AEs in
accordance with a detailed implementation agreement, of which the standard
text is acceptable to IDA. The county PO will authorize disbursements of
project funds to the AE when different stages of work are completed, after
certifying that the work meets the technical standards, including survival
aLtea, specified in the AE's implementation agreement.
4.11     Provincial and county government counterpart funds - including funds
from the reforestation and reinvestment accounts described in paragraph 3.32 ^
will be lent to the respective Provincial or County Forestry Bureaus and
deposited in a special project account. The repayment and grace periods on
these loans will be consistent with the terms of the IDA credit and the
interest rate will be 6.5?. The counterpart funds will be onlent to the AEs
on the basis of detailed implementation agreements, and on the same terms and
conditions as the IDA funds, as described in para. 4.10 above. A chart
showing the flow of funds is in Annex 5.
4.12     Recovery of Proiect Investments.  Most AEs will repay the financing
to the County PO in the form of a percentage share of the volume of timber
obtained at thinning and final harvest. The percentages will be individually
negotiated and will range from 15? to 20?. For larger AEs that have a regular



- 30 -
cash flow from existing plantations, the financing may be in the form of a
loan, with annual repayment of interest and principal after an initial grace
period. The repayment period will be the same as the rotation length for the
species to be planted, and the interest rate will be 6.5Z. The repayment
terms will be covered by the implementation agreement between the AE and the
county P0. The county government will bear the foreign exchange risk under
both the loan and share arrangements. In addition to these direct finance
clarges, AEs have to pay the reforestation and reinvestment fees described in
para. 3.32 above and amounting to some 121 of their gross sales revenues at
the time of thinning and final harvest. Combining the share payments and the
special fees, and ignoring income taxes, the public sector will collect 252 to
30% of the total revenues from project plantations. The present value
(discounted at 122) of this return to the public sector is about 3 billion
yuan, which is equivalent to about 1.7 times the present value of the total
investment cost of the plantation program (excluding the AEs' own
contribution). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the full costs
of project investments will be recovered from the participating forest farms,
through a combination of shares of production, interest payments and taxes.
4.13     Since all the assets controlled by the afforestation entities belong
to the communal or public sectors, and the afforestation entities are
essentially communal or public sector entities, the ultimate repayment
obligation rests with the participating government agencies. In the event of
default or serious fires or pest damage, the losses will be covered by the
Provincial or County Governments, or shared between them. Individual
households, including members of CoopFFs, will be participating in the project
only through share agreements with SFFs and SICs, and not as direct borrowers.
4.14     Until 1985, State Forest Farms received Government funds in the form
of direct grants. As they have been permitted to sell their wood on the open
market, their funding from Government has increasingly been provided in the
form of low-interest loans. The central and provincial governments provide
the initial financing on relatively liberal terms, partly because of the
importance they attach to investment in affor*station for social and
environmental reasons, and partly to mitigate the long gestation period and
uncertainty of returns on forestry investments from the AE's standpoint. By
sharing the initial risk, the local governments maintain an incentive for AEs
to invest it, plantation establishment, while the governments also obtain more
than adequate cost recovery through taxes and shares when the benefits are
realized. The financing arrangements under the project continue this policy.
They are designed to mobilize local public funds for the specific purpose of
plantation development. Channelling the funds as shares or loans is intended
to promote greater financial discipline on the part of the AEs, with an
emphasis on accountability and proper maintenance of the forest stands.
4.15     The Agricultural Bank of China.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
and its branches will serve as the project's channel for disbursing and
collecting loan funds. ABC will not assume any risk under the project.
Through the ABC branch in Beijing where the MF0 has opened a project account,
MFO will pass the yuan portion of the IDA credit to the provincial Pos. The
provincial POs will pass the funds to county POs. Each provincial and county
PO will open a special project account in a local ABC branch. The county ABC



- 31 -
branch would disburse funds to the ABs and collect repayments, which would be
deposited into the county PO's project account. Funds from each source (e.g..
IDA credit, provincisl governments, county forest bureau, etc.) would be
accounted for separa:ely, and repayments would be allocated to these sources
as they are received. The county ABC branch will charge the county P0 a
service fee of 0.3X of the subloan amount on disbursement and another 0.32 on
collection. The terms and conditions of ABC's services to the project are
governed by an agreement between MFO and ABC.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.16     Project monitoring would be based on the MFO's existing information
system. The primary objective is to measure the growth and quality of the
stands over the rotation period and compare them with the predicted
performance. Plantation sites would be inspected at the time of planting and
again six months later to gather information on mortality, plant height and
health. A third inspection would follow in the second to fourth year, after
weeding is finished and the canopy has closed. That is the end of the
establishment phase. Later inspections would be necessary prior to each
thinning ta ensure that the post-thinning stocking density and basal area will
optimize the future development of the stand, and again three to five years
before harvesting to confirm that the stand is meeting the production targets.
Inspections will also be carried out in the nurseries to make sure that the
standards for seedlings are achieved and identify adjustments needed for the
next season. These simple monitoring activities can be carried out by the
current staff of the county forestry bureaus, who will record the information
and transmit it to the provincial project office. Provinicial offices would be
equipped with small computers to enable them to collect and summarize the data
for transmission to the central project office in Beijing. MFO will prepare
and furnish to IDA semi-annual progress reports in March and September of each
year; an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations. These reports
will summarize the findings of the monitoring system and will  highlight major
issues and achievements. A schedule of key implementation activities and plan
for IDA supervision of the project is shown at Annex 6.
4.17     During project implementation MFO would create a small task force in
its newly created Information Center which would assess the further
information needs for planning, managing and supervising the plantation
program and how to develop the links to financing, processing and marketing
aspects. Based on this analysis MFO would determine the need for computers
and prepare a cost benefit analysis for introducing them.   This task force
would also explore the usefulness of developing models that could simulate
workloads and wood flows under various scenarios.
Accounts and Audit
4.18     The afforestation entities, the county POs, the provincial POs, the
central P0 and the relevant branches of ABC will each maintain separate
accounts for project funds. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
provincial POs will prepare annual consolidated statements of the sources and



- 32 -
uses of project funds and have them audited by the Provincial Audit Bureau.
The audited accounts would be submitted to the central P0 within four months
of the end of the financial year. The central PO would submit to IDA within
six months of the end of the financial year a consolidated audit report by the
State Audit Agency containing a summary of the findings of the 15 provincial
audit reports and an audited account of the expenditures made for the project
research programs managed by the MF0. The audited accounts would include
details of withdrawals from the Credit Account made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditure, and the auditor's opinion about whether th-ese withdrawals were
against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
V. PRODUCTTON, MARKETS, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Production
5.1      The expected total wood yield per hectare for each species is shown
in Annex 1, Table 8. These estimates reflect the actual silvicultural
practices and sites to be used in the project. Of the total yield, some will
be in the form of large dimension logs - over 14 cm. in diameter -, some as
small dimension timber - between 8 and 12 cm.- and the rest classified as
fuelwood. For Chinese fir, pine and larch, saleable wood will be produced
when the stands are thinned, as well as at final harvest. In order to
estimate total project production, the amount of wood of each size class from
both final harvest and thinnings has been estimated for each species. In all,
over a 20 year period, the project will produce about 137 million cubic meters
of timber and 25 million tons of fuelwood, with a total value of US$ 10.7
billion at current financial prices. About half of the total wood value will
come from Chinese fir. The total volume and value of wood by species for the
project is shown in Annex 1, Table 9.
5.2      Utilization of the wood.  Forest stands, once planted, can be made to
produce different sizes and qualities of wood, suitable for different end
uses, depending on how they are managed and when the thinnings and final
harvest are made. While it is neither possible nor desirable to determine
precisely at the time of planting a stand's final product, assumptions have
been made in order to select the project investments and to estimate project
benefits. About half the wood is expected to be used in construction, one
third for pulp, about 15Z for plywood and other panels, and the rest for mine
pit props and furniture. All the Chinese fir will be used for construction.
It is the strongly favored wood for both rural and urban dwellings because of
its uniformity, strength and resistance to fungus. About 90Z of both small
and large diameter Chinese fir is used in roundwood form as beams and poles;
the rest is sawn into boards and window and door frames. For pine, the large
diameter wood will be used for construction timber and low-grade plywood.
Pine wood of medium diameter is used for mine pit props, with the smallest
diameters sold to be chipped for pulp. The larch will be used mainly as
pulpwood; although it can also be used for construction timber, the long time
it requires to reach adequate diameters generates a low rate of return. The
eucalyptus species to be planted have been selected specifically for producing



- 33 -
pulp. Poplar and paulownia are intended mainly for plywood, particularly
high-value face veneer, with secondary use as furniture. The miscellaneous
broadleaf species are included in the project mainly to provide ecological
diversity and fire breaks, or to suit particular site conditions. Most can be
used for several purposes, including pulp, furniture, and sawn construction
wood.
5.3      Other products.  The pine forests will produce resin as well as wood.
The resin is tapped during the tree's final year beforo harvest and is sold
locally for making turpentine and is also exported after being processed into
rosin. A total of 266,000 tons of resin will be produced, with a financial
value of about US$ 45 million. Some of the eucalyptus farms may extract
eucalyptus oil from leaves, but this is considered a minor benefit and has not
been valued.   Poplar and paulownia will often be intercropped with field
crops like corn, soybean or wheat. The trees will be planted in areas where
these field crops are already being grown. Their introduction will slightly
reduce the total area of the field crops, huit may also increase their yield
by reducing wind speeds and therefore evapotranspiration. Research on
intercropping with paulownia has shown that at typical densities, the
production of summer crops increases but that of autumn crops decreases, with
the total amount over a ten year period remaining about the same as it would
be without intercropping. It has therefore been assumed that the project will
have no net effect on total production of intercrops.
Markets and Prices
5.4      Demand outlook.  Virtually all wood products in China are in short
supply and there will be no difficulty in marketing the project output. The
species to be produced have been selected to provide the products in most
serious shortage, namely construction wood, paper and wood-based panels. As
indicated in paragraph 1.6. imports of wood and wood products have increased
dramatically in recent years. The only product likely to be exported is
eucalyptus chips produced in southern Guangdong province. There is a rapidly
increasing market for them in Japan for pulp.
5.5      Processing capacity.  Pulp and wood-based panel factories in China
are designed on a small scale and each can tse a variety of raw materials.
The provincial project management offices have already identified the markets
for wood to be produced in every participating county, including the
individual sawmills, plywood mills, mines. etc. that will take the wood. They
have demonstrated that existing processing capacity is more than adequate to
absorb all the project output. Most of the Chinese fir will be sold as
roundwood at the roadside, to wholesale dealers or to individuals building
houses. Many of the forest farms operate their own sawmills and other
processing plants.
5.6      Prices.  The wood will be sold at market-determined prices.  Wood
prices soared during 1987 and 1988, partly because of the construction boom.
They dropped slightly during 1989, but they are still at or near world levels.
As long as the Government maintains its current pricing policy, it is unlikely
that wood prices will decline significantly from present levels because of the



- 34 -
supply/demand situation described above. No major change in wood pricing
policy Is anticipated, particularly because an attempt in 1988 to re-introduce
wood price controls did not succeed and was abandoned. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that MFO would prepare an annual report about both
the actual levels of wood prices and the policy and methods of setting timber
prices in the project areas, and would discuss this report with IDA.
5.7      The financial prices of fertilizers and pesticides are actual import
prices.  The wage rate is a weighted average over all project areas based on
MFO's detailed field surveys and accounting data. Although workers are
actually paid on a piece work basis, a daily wage rate can be inferred using
norms established for different operations in different areas. An average wage
of 7 yuan per day was assumed. For the economic analysis, a conversion factor
of 0.7 was applied to this wage rate. The output prices used int the financial
analysis of the project are weighted averages for each major species and size
class based on field surveys of actual prices by Ministry of Forestry staff.
They are roadside prices, and thus incorporate the costs of logging and
skidding to the roadside. Constant 1990 prices rather than projections were
used, for three main reasonst the project would produce wood of an extremely
wide variety of species and end uses; the wood would be marketed over a 20
year period ending in 2011, and the vast size and relative isolation of
China's wood market make domestic supply and demand the prime determinants of
prices. The output prices used in the economic analysis are actual border
prices for comparable imported wood and wood products, adjusted for processing
costs and inland transport as required. Since China both exports chips for
pulp and imports pulpwood and paper, the economic price for eucalyptus is a
weighted composite of import and export border prices. The economic price for
resin is an export price for rosin adjusted for processing costs.   Annex 1,
Table 10 lists the financial and eccnomic prices used in the project analysis.
Financial Analysis
5.8      To estimate the project's financial benefits, one-hectare models were
developed for 13 types of plantations. These models do not represent
silvicultural prescriptions for particula, situations: rather, they are
estimates of typical treatments and outputs for the main project species.
They include all the expected direct and indirect costs, and reflect average
densities, thinning revenues, final harvesting age, etc.   For Chinese fir,
three different models were used, reflecting the different treatments and
yields on different types of sites. Similarly, two models were used for each
of slash pine, masson pine and Italian poplar. Financial rates of return
(FRR) were estimated for each model; they are listed in Annex 1, Toble 11.
The FRRs (before debt service and taxes) range from 142 for larch to 43? for
eucalyptus.
5.9      A FRR for the entire project over 20 years was calculated.  It is a
weighted average of the returns for each species and also takes into account
the costs of the research, planting material and information system
components. The returns for each species were estimated for the period of one
rotation; that is, neither the costs nor the benefits of replanting a site
after harvesting the first crop were considered. Since more than half the



- 35 -
project output will be from species with a 20 year rotation, and since there
are few sunk costs, this will not unduly affect the FRR. The project FRR is
estimated at 191 before debt service and 17X after debt service. Sensitivity
analysis shows that in order for the project's FRR to fall below 122, labor
costs would have to rise by over 802 or revenues fall by over 40S.
5.10     Cash Flow.  A summary cash flow for the project is shown in Annex 1,
Table 12.   The project's net present value discounted at 122 is about yuan
2.9 billion.
5.11     Recovery of Investment Costs.  Under the cost recovery arrangements
described in para. 4.10 above, the afforestation entities will be repaying an
average share of about 171 of their total wood production to the MFO. In
addition, they must pay the special reforestation and reinvestment fees
described in para. 3.32 above. Since the use of the revenue from these fees
is restricted to forestry purposes, they can also be considered recovery of
investment in the forestry project. (Only the special forestry fees and
levies, and not general taxes, have been considered.) The discounted present
value of the fees and the shares that AEs will pay is about 3 billion yuan, or
about 1.7 times the discounted value of the investment by all levels of
government.
Economic Analysis
5.12     Economic rates of return were calculated for each afforestation model
and for the project as a whole. Financial prices for outputs, labor and
traded inputs were converted as described in paragraph 5.7 above. Because in
some areas it will eventually be necessary to build additional forest roads to
extract the timber, an economic cost of 90 Yuan per hectare in the year
before harvest was assumed. The methodology was otherwise the same as for the
financial analysis. The ERRs for each model are shown in Annex 1, Table 11:
they range from 14? for larch to 53? for eucalyptus. The ERR for the whole
project is 23? . Labor costs would have to increase by over 120? or revenues
fall by about 5O0 for the ERR to fall below 122.
Environmental and Employment Benefits
5.13     Environmental.  The proposed project will have significant
environmental benefits by increasing the overall forest cover and
rehabilitating degraded, low productivity land. The increase in wood supply
will reduce pressure on overharvesting of natural forests. The project would
also strengthen the capacity of MFO and its provincial and county level
counterparts to plan and monitor the environmental aspects of afforestation
projects on a permanent basis.
5.14     Employment and Income Benefits.  The project's afforestation
activities will generate over 680,000 person-years of work for rural dwellers
during the six years of project implementation, and over 7 million person-
years throughout the plantations' lifetimes. This will be mainly seasonal and
part time work for farm families. These families tend to have incomes below



- 36 -
the provincial averages because most of the forest areas are remote and
generally hilly or otherwise not ideal for agriculture. Some of the work will
be done by women; the extent of this depends on local customs and the
availability of alternative employment opportunities.
Risks
5.15     The risk that wood production will be less than expected is very
limited. The projected yields, while higher than the prevailing averages,
have already been achieved in China and are realistic for the sites selected.
The afforestation entities have agreed to take appropriate steps to reduce the
possibility of fire and pest losses. The main risk to project success is
whether the afforestation entities' expected returns will continue to give
them enough incentive to manage the stands properly. AEs can, up to a point,
alter their management of stands to take advantage of changing relative prices
for different sizes and grades of timber. IDA and MFO will annually monitor
the prevailing wood prices in the project areas and their effect on the AEs'
expected revenues.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      Assurances were obtained from the Government that it will:
(a) prepare and furnish to IDA by November 1, 1990 a detailed preparation
plan for about 330,000 hectares of plantation area (para. 3.3);
(b) establish and maintain project plantations in accordance with the
Ministry of Forestry's Standards on Fast Growing and High Yielding
Plantations and with standards and methods acceptable to IDA (para.
3.16);
(c) carry out the agreed Accelerated Program for Improvement of Planting
Material and will prepare and discuss with IDA by December 31 of each
year, starting December 31, 1990, a detailed progress report on the
program's activities during the preceding year (para. 3.17);
(d) carry out the agreed research programs on high yielding forest
species and will prepare and discuss with IDA by December 31 of each
year, st"rting December 31, 1990, a detailed scientific report on the
activities and findings of the research program during the preceding
year (para. 3.18);
(e) prepare and discuss with IDA a detailed plan for the pilot
plantations component by November 1, 1990 (para. 3.19);
(f) prepare and furnish to IDA for its review draft Forest Resource
Management Plans for three provinces by June 30, 1991 and for the
remaining project provinces by December 31, 1992 (para. 3.23);



- 37 -
(g)   carry out project activities in accordance with the Ministry of
Forestry's Environmental Guidelines for Afforestation and with
standards and practices acceptable to IDA (para. 3.24);
(h)   procure and handle pesticides in accordance with World Bank
pesticide guidelines (para. 3.27);
(i)   not select any land area containing trees whose canopy covers more
than 30S of the area (except existing plantations), or that has
historical, cultural or biological significance, or that is a
habitat for rare plants or animals as a site for establishing a
project plantation (para. 3.29);
(j)   open and maintain a special account in a bank and on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 3.36);
(k)   prepare and furnish to IDA for its review by December 31 of each
year, starting with December 31, 1990 a detailed work and
financing plan for implementation of the project during the
following year (para.4.1);
(1)   maintain its Project Office with staffing, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 4.2);
(m)   enter into a Project Implementation Agreement having terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association with the Government of
each province participating in the project (para. 4.2);
(n)   cause to be recovered from the participating forest farms the full
cost of project investments, through a combination of shares of
production, interest payments and taxes (para. 4.12);
(o)   prepare progress reports on the afforestation component and
furnish them to IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each year,
starting with September 30, 1990 (para. 4.16);
(p)   prepare and discuss with IDA by September 30 each year, starting
September 30, 1991, a report about the prevailing levels of timber
prices and the methods of setting timber prices in the project
areas (para. 5.6).



- 38 -
6.2         Approval by the State Council of the Development Credit Agreement
and execution of Project Implementation Agreements with all participating
provinces would be conditions of effectiveness of the credit.
6.3         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 230 million (US$ 300
million) on standard IDA terms with 35 years' maturity to the People's
Republic of China.



aow
stimoul Att.eeswtoat ProiJot
Plestatio Area By Proviso ga Spcaes
Ulmit, loU hb.
Tots, 8             dblloly &     _se   Chis                               Sibesris .     Slack   Ysoa           bromd-
Provin  Are      _ IlypbO   Slah pip.   pte    fir      Poplar  Albuut Pauo lw   Bock locust  wttlo  ples    La"$    1te tre
totel    665.0  40.         7 n7.0      n.9    U4.0  1U.7         0.7     20.0      93.0         2.0    14.0    170.0       1.2
_uasg. 91*0.0   28.0       10.0          0.?     a0.0             6.?
_.aaal    5.0    S.$      1U.0           s.7     ao.0
_hass     73.4             14.0         10.0    80.0    16.0                                                                 5.4
N"*I l     .0               0.0                  14.5    54.?
Zk.Jle    25.0              3.3          8.4    1.$
Ash.)    45.0               3.6          2.8    $8.6      1.0
Wiasm   70.0                5.8         17.9    40.0                                 2.0                                     4.6
JIsWi   70.0                0.1          4.2    52.7                                                                         5.0
Slos._  50.0                 .8          0.7     40.0
_oaos      0.0                                           80.0             10.0      10.0
ub I       44.0                                          84.0                       10.0
Lieas    50.0                                                                                                    50.0
ans _     0.0                           10.0     46.0
Vs"a"    44.0   10.0                             20.0                                                   14.0
m         40.0                                           27.0             10.0       8.0
to bs dstsr-
atmd  16.0   20.0                                      40.0                                                    126.0



Annex 1
- 40 -                            Table 2
C XI1NA
NATIONAL A1PZSTATION PROJECT
Beed Requirements
imD9rtau
Southern pine     10 810 kg
3ucalypts          2 120 kg
Slack wattle         300 kg
Domestics
Chinens  fir      106 300 kg
Larch             1 730 kg
Manson pine        1S 500 kg
Turnan              3 300 kg
Poplar and paulownia are exclusivly propagated by clones.
Seed stands, seed orchards and clonal nurseries are listed by province and
species in the preparation document, *Seed Supply Situation,* which is on
project file.



Afforestation lodd for Chinse Fir (Site 16)
(Thousgnds of Yuan)
Year         I         2         3         4        5         b       7       H            9       10        I I         2      1:1     14      15      la      17     lli      19       20
EXPENSES
Xeeds/sedl,ngs                   t93
Indirect                         SO         10       10        ID        10        10      10      10           5        5           !         5       5       '       S       5       '       5       5         5
I,nbor                         1.511      225       225       lI:;       40        40      40      40         :J79      40          40       44'5     40      40    l)59      40      40      40      40   13:.509
Pestwirdes and tnatentis         21                                                                            21                             Z!,                     .h                                     I.012
koads                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
Total expenses                 2.024      235       235       123        50        50      50      50         405       45          45       475       45     4!    701       45      45      45      45   14.07
lar  dtameler                                                                                                  Ui9                           77:1                   1.542                                   5.703
Small diameter                                                                                                4HS                            440                     520                                     7A422
Fuelvood                                                                                                       75                              i                      1;0                                      780
Total rvenues                      0         0        0         0         0         0       0       0         9Yg        0           0      l,Z79      0        0   2.121 II   0           0       0   a   f,9Ob
Bal tefore taxes/hitoatn       2.04      2:15      235      9123        10        550       0     50         SZ4       45          45       804      45     4J   1.4;'0      4',    4S       45      45   5z,.179
Debt saervie                       0        0         0         0         0         0       0       0          ISh       0           0       ,17               0    .itil      0       0       0       0   11.374
Balance                        .024      Z35       2:15      IZ:I       50        50      s0      50        :13ti      45          45       58b      45      45   I.t0)H     4S      45      45      45   41,00.
Taxes                              0        0         D         0         0         0       0       0         1t9        0           0       2:131     0       0      IHb      0       0       0       0   2.977
Forestry Fees                      a         0        0         0         0         0       0       0         I0Z        0           0       141       0       0    28::i      0       O       0        0    7.AiM
Balance                        Z.024      2:35     2Z5        IZ3        50        50      50      50          9S       45          45       293      45      45    440       45,     45      45      45   2l.4b9
F bi W. taxeselitncting       la 28n
1l9after 1m/IX-! taxem 14 2045
FilK ill taxes k timan        t t .9B
r'm  NPV bel hinatic ing   3.076,045
lbt 



P4 tn
..0
t55j5    kLaUUq 34 A  *mU
I                                                                                                                         MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~  0JuuWim   NAq
N;                           owt  tI  Ct    U           W      WA     Ct       W        Cl      W          0,    eV    cs        es      a;      Ul       rzi    Lut I_n
IO uWl              0 o    0      a     a        0         Qs   e                   a      a    *           a       a    e    e            e                u
s    *WL   e        o  e          0     0        a                 0                0      0       0        0       0        a       0                         San
S0La Ol Mi          a      0 u          0 w  u   s                 0 w              0      0s es       0c           ; 2      121     CCII                     AM"q
O4Cr&S       0      0      0      S     &        0         St      U         U      0      0       0        U       0        a       0                     MUSI
K?K  OU1 s          w      so    0      so U         W      22     W         U      00    Os       es       es      121      125     mCl CII     uWw     A" Pu
os sl  a            0      0     *      0        * a       00           0        0     0  e                 0   o       e   0        0 ea".ps
on                                                         0                                                                                            MUU 
Iva                                                                                                                                                         um* .a
amI0   w  U   U                   W   0          0         02   0            UP es  CS e            0 es            121   121   VM                     ms
500I                                                       Cl                                                                        12&iP  sapm
lmts aw                          01, eM                                                                                              oh" e*e W01It e      e  t " e  rl g
S     0      0      0 S           0 C                                        a      0I    GI       et       05      05 U             0l  G I  St              PM
ULl               ,'fpa).
Sm
VI    L5    SI CI Si       t      13    gl       It        os      6                               % :                                          A 2  1  A
IMRA _  MIEIM_
(is 'W) 4 "Md .A Po .am" A" pUIU UO5ppaaq



Afforealtion Model for Italian Poplar (1-69.72XSlte V)
(Thousands of Yuan)
Year.        1        2        3         4        5         6      7       8           9       10
mwSE
Seeds/seedlings                385
Fertilizer                     305
Indirect                        40        10        5        5         5        5       5       5           5       5
Lbbor                          735       105       40       40        40       40      40      40          40   13.098
Pesticides and materials        21                                                                                972
Roads                                                                                                       0
Total expenses                1,486      115       45        45       45       45      45      45          45   14.075
REVEIUBS
Large diameter                                                                                                  180144
Small diameler                                                                                              0    9.072
Fuelvood                                                                                                   0      510
Resin
Total revenues                   0         0        0        0         0        0       0       0           0   27.726
Bal. before laxes/finan.    - 1.486     -115      -45      -45       -45      -45    -45    -45          -45   13.651
Debl service                     0        0         0        0         0        0       0       0          0   -4,713
Balance                       1.486     -115      -45      -45        45      -45    -45    -45          -45    8.937
Taxes                            0         0        0        0         0        0       0       0           0       0
Forestry Fees                    0         0        0        0         0        0       0       0          0        0
Balance                     - IA86     -115       -45      -45       -45      -45    -45    -45          -45    8.937
FRR before taxes & financing          26.14%
FRR aner financing/before taxes       20.11;I
FR after taxes & financing            20.11%
Financial NPV before financing & taxes 2.811.339
I-



Annex J,
- 44 -                                             Table 4
DETAILED PROJICr COSTS BY YEAR
(Thousands of Yuan)
Year:                   1         2          3         4          5         6       Total    % of  % Foreip
costs  Exchange
Afforestation
Seedlinp                     41.398    94.440    94.440    28.461                         258.741   11.%     12%
Fertilizer                   43.092    98.303    98.303    29.625                         269.322   12.0%     92%
Pesticides                   1.839      1.839     1.839     1.839      1.839     1.839     11.032    0.5*     92%
Inastmentou/t:oos/matcrials   199       599        S99       t81        0          0        1.578    0.1%      0%
Labor:
Establishment               200.108   456.497   456.497    137.574                        1.250.676  SS.6%-   0%
Tending                                23.348    74.196    114.200    93.881     45.867    351.493   15.6%     0%
Survey and design            7.351     16.770    16.71C     S.054                          45.946    2.0%      0%
Subtotal- Afforesttion       293.987   691.796   742644    316.93S    95.719    41.706   2.188,787  97.3%      13%
U.S. dollars (milions)        62.29     146.57    157.34     67.15      20.28     10.11     463.73    97.3*    13*
Research and PUlot Plantations
Training                      333       333        333       333        333       333       2.000    0.1%     2S%
TA and stutd tours            967        67        97        967        67        97        5.800    0.3%     100%
Operating cot and salaies    4.700      4.700     4.700     4.700      4.700     4.700     28.200    1.3%      0*
Materials aod equipment       433       4.152      433       433       433        433      6.319    0.3%      100%
Fertiiter and imported seed    17        17        17         17        17         17       100      0.0%     100%
Pilot plantations             333       333        333       333       333        333      2.000    0.1%       0%
Soil conoervation tria         20        20        20         20        20        20        120      0.0%      0%
Subtotal - Reserch/Plantations   6.803  10.522     6.803     6.803      6.803     6.803     44.538    2.0%     29%
L.S. dolln (millions)          1.44      2.23      1.44       1.44      1.44      1.44       9.44     2.0%     29%
Aelerated Planting .Materials Development
Operatiog costs and salaries  867       867        867       867        867       867      5.200     0.'%      0%
TA and study wtrs             300        300       300       300        300       300       1.800    0.1%     100Vi
Construction                  201       201        201       201       201        201       1.206    0.1%      0%'
Equipment                     57         57        57         S7        57        57        344      0.0*     100*
Subtotal -AMPD                1.425      1.425     1.425     1.425      1,425     1.425     8.50      0.4%     2S%
t.S. dollars (mlions)          0.30      0.30      0.30       0.30      0.30      0.30       1.81     0.4%     25%
Information System
Hardware                     3.210                                                         3.210     0.1*     50%
Sottware                     1.374      840                                                2.214    0.1%       0%
Training and operations       727        529       529       529        529       529       3.370    0.1%      0%t
Subtotal. Into. System        5.310      1.369      529       529       529        529      8.793     0.4%
U.S. dollar (millions)         1.13      0.29      0.11       0.11      0.11      0.11       1.86     0.4*    18.25%
TOTAL BASE COSTS             307.526    705.112   751.401    325.692    104.476    56.463   2250.668  100.0%
U.S. dollas (miions)          65.15     149.39    159.20     69.00      22.13     1L.96     476.84   100.0%   13.62%
Price Condtanies              24.602    117.331   168.8S5    93.134    36.593    23.588    464.102
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          332.128    822.442   920.2S6   418.825    141.069    80.051   2.714.771
U.S.dolars (Silios)           63.18     150.63     168.54    76.71      25.84     14.66     499.S6



OCINA
National Aftorostation Project
Costs per hectear of Plantation Establishment, by Spfeies
Yuan por hctors
Labour Cost                             Equlpmont A Materials
Spec)..      S1t. Index   Total  Subtotal Planting Tending  Subtotal Seeling Fertili zr Pesticide Material Surwvey/Design
Chines Fir     (18)       2878.2 2289.0   1t71.2   681.8      389.2    180.5   207.6      11.2   10.0    60.0
Chines Fir     (16)       2688.2 2070.4   1606.6   6B1.8    482.8    192.8   249.0        11.2   10.0    50.0
Chinese Fir    (14)       2484.6 1901.9   1340.1   681.8      612.8    192.6   298.8      11.2   10.0    60.0
Mhson Pine     (18)       2075.8 178.4   1896.4   837.0       292.4    164.1   117.1      11.2   10.0    50.0
Masson PIne    (16)       2056.6 1621.0   1896.8   224.7      889.6    192.6   176.7      11.2   10.0    46.0
Slah Pine      (18)       2048.7 1821.0   1284.0   887.0    872.7    186.9   184.6        11.2   10.0    50.0
Slash Pine     (18)       2040.0 1606.7   1284.0   224.7    486.3    206.4   259.7        11.2   10.0    46.0
Larch                     2284.1 1717.4   1404.4   818.0      496.7    216.7   268.6       11.2   10.0    60.0
Chinese Whit. Poplar      1747.2  863.0    866.7    96.8      74.2    529.6   198.4       11.2   10.0    40.0
Popilr i-9.72  (V )       1688.0  884.6    780.8   104.8      711.4    886.2   805.0       11.2   10.0    40.0
Poplar 14S9.72  (II)      1918.6 1147.8   1048.8   104.8      729.0    689.8   168.6       11.2   10.0    40.0
Eucalyptus                2129.7 1284.0   1027.2   256.8    800.7    858.1   426.4        11.2   10.0    46.0
Paslownia                 1686.6  770.4    874.1    96.8    t77.2    828.0   128.0         11.2   10.0    40.0
Albezlz                   2296.4 1831.2   1886.2   246.0    824.2    176.6   426.4        11.2   10.0    40.0
Black Wattlo              2021.2 1878.0   1892.7   285.8    808.2    164.0   128.0         11.2   10.0    40.0                  1
Siberion Elm A Black Locust 2018.2 1670.0   1408.0   267.0    808.2    154.0   128.0      11.2   10.0    40.0                   r
Oth.r Broad Leaved Tree   1942.4 1788.4   1466.1   277.8      184.0    164.0                      10.0    46.0
Creit Financing of Plantation Cost
The IDA credit would finance 100X of the cost of f*rtiIlters, peticlde. and imported seeds. Iported *se  are
Included In the seedling costs shown above. The rmolning cost consist of: a) labour cost for seedling production,
planting, tening, survey and design, and b) smll tools and mtorials. The IDA credit wtil finance 521
of these costs on the basis of a scheule to be agreed at negotiations.
"'t



A=ex 1
-46  -Table 6
PROJ'Cr COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT AND CAT#Iao0Y
(Tk@usad* of I.e)
Aforebttiua  R.sageb       AMFV    In ormationa   T.talb         14 IA
Slyttem                Fla4aanm,
Imported s9. 36,t10                                                                           38.9s) I)     n04
Fertilizer                                   3,SS          121                               324,97b 82.
P"tielde.                                   1337                                              11,3U 97.
TUU anad .quipeat                            1.90)        7,622         415                    9.940       89 14.
Coapute hard b  e                                                                  3,877 3,8               70.01
Cosputorsttwa                                                                      3,671       !,671       40 *
ubtotiafs                                  3S97t          7.743        415         6.42      393478        92 3.t
Plan atios btubIb.stsm
Labur                                     1.932,545                                         1,932,S4S      43 6et
Seedling                                   271.164                                           373,184       41 hS
Sturvey and desin                           53..420                                           55.40        41 6b
Subtotals                                 2.261,149          0            a           0    2.261,149       43.6O4
Teeistag/rA/1tudy to)                             0        9.408        2,l1        4.S6        15.644      6S3.fS
tther 1shur, uperdtUg cOSM4
and coastruedo.:
Otbertaow                                                 IS7 2,557                                          n-*,
Opersains;ctandslrtia                                    34,015      6CM                      40.27         0 tr
Coesu4ueon                                                            1,45                     1.455        n.nt
SebsoCabl                                         0       36n73        7.727           0       44,J."        n.n.
TrItuls                                    2.410.127      53.723      10.313       IOA07    2,714.771



- 47 -
Annex 1
Table 7
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal years                 Disbursement             Z of total Disbursement
and semesters         Semestral             Cumulative  IDA credit  Profile bI
I
1991
1st               30 a/                    30            4
2nd               10                       40            5          5.4
1992
Ist               30                       70           22
2nd               30                      100           32         29.2
1993
let               35                      135           45
2nd               40                      175           58         61.2
1994
Ist               30                      205           68
2nd               30                      235           78         91.0
1995
1st               20                      255           85
2nd               20                      275           92        100.0
1996
1st               10                      285           95
2nd                5                      290           97
1997
1st               10                      300          100
al Includes proposed deposit in Special Account of US$17.9 million and
retroactive financing of up to US$20 million equivalent.
b/ Disbursement profile for Specific Investment loans in China.
Completion date; December 31, 1996.
Closing date: December 31, 1997.



TR  OUTU By 8PECS
Celeo    mmte per Derv)
ritsd  bhinning.                           Sond thinning                              Therd thinning                             rintl feting
tow      Peteot      Port        lrar o    T4       pd md       Prtent      to" of      t        er        Pet          2.oTon   T.e       part  d       era   TMre d
Cubic    WVe         Sl          Pewusd  Cubir   tkw st     n  S            P         CIbood  Cbk    Lw    smn         Pwo    Cb           kw          saln     P     rd
ats  Dimenusos  _eiun                      Im oshans m_            iu Dhbn                    mnen  D      Domn                   etkl   1e              _
Cnes Pt9         )                   2.6      22m         772         2.5       304      402         6           20        5.76     S3           4            .s       103   SU        ze             39.
C*bA    r(Swe 46                     2.64     222         782         2S         336     402         an2          2.0      8.02     S3S          472         20        13495   75S         2zs        25.0
Cbse  rl (Ste 14)                    1.49     23X          m7         I.0       5.99     402         so          3.8                                                   420.     M 7s                  24.0
_m    r. mu teo                      1.36     tes         822         4.0       6.3s       2         6           35 a24s1   782                                                             282       240
V       i"e M Site top               1.34     Ie=                      4.0                                                                                             t33.41   t0                    22zs
SI    rm  (Site t)                   1.30     t6          622          4.0      6.3s     3           6n           3.                                                  142.14   75X          282       2U
s     Pe S Pte top                   l.Z2     4062                     4.0                                                                                             15031   t4 200
tbe                                  2.42     t0                      2.0 z437    too0                                                                                                               2a.?
C      *t Podk w. Siot
DO. EKrl IlAci
1se. um*a                                                                                                                                                             3I.0      75X         282       12.
Italis FqlaOf 101) we60 10
tdn ~ d0( t2s.00                                                                                                                                                                  n 100               9.t
ftaulawl                                                                                                                                                               139.77   502         051       60c
obek ~ ~ ~ ~       ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~        ~         Il3 IseDe                       59  Ixc
CDaubew i .                                                                                                                                                            18.2e    1002                  0s
t39M  sa  Sa    ee           ~           COt



Annex 1
Table 9
- 49 -
Total Project Timber Output
Species             Timber Output   Value        Fueiwood       Value      Total value
(N13 OOs)  (Yuan 000O)  (000s Tons)  (Yuan 000.)  (Yuan OOOs)
Chines: Fir                      54.786    26.343.047      12.451      364.878    26.707.925
Eucalyntus                       S.943     1.307.460         538        16.131     1.323.591
Larch                           25.659     8.210.893        5.051       151.36    8362A29
Mauson and Yunan Pine            10.790    3.531.236        1.983       59.489     3.590.724
Slash Pine                       9.166     2.978.903        1.632       48.948     3.027M.1
Chinese White Poplar.
Siberian Elm. Black
Locust and Misc. Broadleaf       9.628     2.888.465        1.202       36.072     2.924.537
Italian Poplar and Albezia      17.991     3.674.919        2.166       64.974     3.739.893
Paulownia                        2.795       698.850           0            0       698.850
Black Wattle                       111        24.323          10          300        24.623
TOTAL                          136.89   49,658.06         25,032      742,328   50.400.423



Annex 1
- 50 -                                                 Table 10
Ptics Used in Projet Analysis
(Yuan)
Category                         Uoit                     Por unit
Financial    Conversion    Economic
Price       Factor         Price
Labor/I                               Manday                7           0,7           4.9
Indirect expenses/2                   Manday                7             1             7
Fertilizer.
DAP                                    Kg.               0.94        1.4574       1.3700
Urea                                   Kg.               0.68        1.4485       0.9150
Potaium                                Kg.              0.605        1.4463       0.8750
Seedlings for:
Chinesc Fir                          1000 plants           50        0.8200         41.00
Masson Pine                          1000 plants           40         0.8125        32.50
Slah P{ne/3                          1000 plants           80        0.9419         75.35
Slahb Pia/4                          1000 plants           100       0.9385         93.85
Larch                                1000 plants           72         0.7917        57.00
Chinese Wbitc Poplar/5               1000 plats          t500        08000        1200.00
Italbn Popla /6                      1000 plants          1200       0.8000        960.00
tulian Poplar/7                      1000 plants          800        0.7938        635.04
Eucalyptus/S                         1000 plants           70         1.0423        72.96
Eucalyptus/9                         1000 plants          140        0.8500        119.00
Paulownia                            1000 plants         1000        0.8200        820.00
Timber market prices for,
Chiaese Fir
Lare  dimension                        m3                580         0.8535          495
Smail dimension                        m3                 220        1.0000          220
mason Pine                              m3
Lae dimension                          m3                 400        0.9623          385
Small dimension                        m3                 200        1.0000          200
Pulpwood                               m3                 320        0.8594          275
Slasb Pine                              m3
Large dimension                        m3                400         0.9625          385
Small dimension                        m3                 200        1.1000          220
Pulpwood                               m3                 320        0.1594          275
Larc (pulpwood)                         m3                320         0.8594          275
Chines  White Poplar. Sibenian          m3
Elm, Black Locut &                      O3
Misc. Broadleed                         m3
Large dimension                        m3                 350        1.3570          475
Small dimension                        m3                 150        1.0000          IS0
Italian Popta                           .3
Lare dimension                         .3                280         1.6960          475
Small dimension                        o3                 140        1.0000          140
pulpwood                                3                200         1.3750          275
Albez2ia (pulpwood)                     o3                 200        1.3750          275
Euc tus (pulpwood)                      t3                220         1.2500          27m
Paulownia                               .3
Large dimension                        m3                350         1.3570          475
Smal dinsion                           m3                 IS0        1.0000          ISO
Black Wattle (pulpwood)                 U3                220         1.2S00          275
Sale price of:
FucWood                                 Ton                30         1.0000           30
Resin.  Masson pine                     Kg.                0.8       1.9500          1.56
Resd . Slu pine                         K.                 0.8       1.9500          I.S6
Taxes and fe/t0
Miscellaneous levies                   o3                 7.5        1.0000          7.5
General tam                         *of sales          18.2%             0             0
Foretuyfees                         *f sle             11.0*             0             0
Exchange rate for finacial prices: U.S.S31  Y4.72
Ewchanp rate for economic prices U.S.SI * Y5.50
1/ DaIywe rates rap  from Y6 to YB per mnday. depending on plting location. The
rate of Y7/manday has been ud for the majotity of spocie. All economic labor rates
bave bee corlte by the s    fator.
2/ Indirect comn includewages for skilled work, such as research, mngment. suirvyin
ad desip.
3/ Bae toot sdling, retsentig S50* of new slat  pine planttion
4/ Containerized.tept       50i   of new slaspie plntations.
3/ Sam  seedling costs awe been usd for Siberian Elm. Black Locust. and md  efaneoua
broadleaf spce
6/ For twoyer old sedlg
7/ Forooeyaroldseedllng
8/ For sding, representing 0* dof new eucalyptus plnution
9/ For czutting, representing 20% of new euy     plntatios
10/ Taxs ad feesInclde ony thos amont which at e aullb pad out by afforestion entities,
and do not Incudie payments made into their own accontS fand related purposes.



Annex 1
Table 11
- 51 -
RATES OF RETURN
Financial Rates of Return   Financial  Economic      Economic
Net Present     Rate       Net Present
Before debt   After debt     Value       of Return       Value
service a taxes  service and  (Yuan)                     (Yuan)
before taxes
Species
Chinese Fir (Site 18)        20.04%        18.19%      427.258.997     20.63%     391.889.000
Chinese Fir (Site 16)         18.20%       16.45%      533.761.754     18.55%     486.651.000
Chinese Fir (Site 14)         16.54%       14.72%      3ZS.461.9S0     16.84%     312.242.000
Masson Pine and
Yunen Pine (Site 18)          15.21%       13.21%      30.549.715      16.94%      44.689.000
Masson Pine and
Yunan Pine (Site 16)          1S.98%       13.64%      85.S48.906      18.07%      17.S10.000
Slsh Pine (Site 18)           16.0S%       14.04%      20.48S.786      17.59%      27.229.000
Slash Pine (Site 16)          17.15%       14.91*      103.096.712     17.69*      102.50S.000
Larch                         13.92%       11.78%      138.294.962     14.26%      138.727.000
Chinese White Poplar. Siberian
Elm. Black Locust &
Misc. Broadleaf              21.53%        19.81%      345.271.520    24.96%      S16.439.000
Italian Poplar (Site V)      26.14%        20.11%      166.431.245    24.54%      180.006.000
Italian PopIlr (Site 11) and
Albezzia                      32.80%       24.21%      269.690.337    49.82%      666.742.000
Eucalyptus                   43.16%        36.96%      339.438.479    S2.59*      505.366.000
Paulownia                    30.83%        25.77%      97.031.549     39.39%       170.802.000
Black Wattle                 30.38%        23.53%       4.119.786     39.70%       7.223.000
TOTAL PROJECT                 19.31%       16.60%     2.851.221.901    22.75%     3.643.612.876



Pnwwn CA= "
ETh,'ammdq nt we")
trilt I                   I                                                                             :t 4             !,  _   n tI                       t:  n 3  3.  3  t   16    * '         3     i t   9        .73
Rr.w                                    0 0                      tl P               P p  I 13 ..Z.l:  .: 11%   I   .1.3 V.     ,  I'. I . 43i'    t.                   3.,       M  a(il t 13        S7  1 3   4tl;8.4'tO   17.40t  1.2348W0%
!3rts usd serlfuip         288.741
rt'vm                       289. 122
%3niwodd t3                  45.94W     4.8S0    1162       8.077    8.1139    8119       a.319      7810       4.Z91     4291        tI C9,8931. :t.1%  3.89         :t1,95    3%         :3194      3.394      3,:fi34    29         Z8S9
IortW                      1.280.M78   I4S.97   I:t0.8t2   82:197   4ZZ'2   4-2'2 2   2   .M93  1.078478    Itt0,059  1.099.780    104.SZ0   l3ri3337      1.392   I5227Z    17Zai5 .     27221      Z':tZI  1.907,3433    Zt73i 9.7'2,461
(N,bt mw                          0         0         0        0         e         0     4S.402     77.t5te     421      7t.8B       4.8U114     ,t114         0      0,17't    11,80828       0          0    It1.4.3          0   6888J42
rEvlK33f                       3Jtt9    1.8t9    1.835t    18t9       1,83tt    3.879
Ueirtl                         1.84Z
ts  o1                            0         0        0         p         p         0          0         p          a          0          0          0          0         0          p          0          p          p          0         0
Rmrhb. Pibl ptlautotgs mA AUVO rip""t
n)                              1.04      S.144     1.42S     142S     1.tZ S 1.44S
Trumt                             3m       3tt        ".1I     777       777      3n7
T3rbn,tIel Atm,oem                tl:l     l3t       :ttl      :t37      M        :t3n
Stnd ta Ir.i                                01       &Mi 8tt    B3I        1 B3     t3
Dtp rnuno l     mqd 0.3m       4.700     4 7tl    4.70t     4 7'tt    4.7101    4.700
Mtmtl.usod  mnpmew                4tt      4.1t      4:3t      4:ct      4:t      4171
FrrPltha d anpmted m.              17        1 17     17 17               17        17
PIN  tomilynw"                    13:7     U77       :1tt      :t3       rn       :tt
1m33'oo,e Itoo            t                               t20  .1    0  0 ID20      20
IIerduArq.                      :1.210
Ib'5wtr                         1rt74      84tt
Trtmnmt mud crymtmss              727       '9       $29       S25t      59       52't
and l'.us                    .6J41.74   171.'1`1   15D04tl oIns' )f9   f1.t117   63.3517   9tf.Zt3 0t q4.8ttO  04."78  121S.421    102.783    144.279    35.Z7   235.S78  :3t,th376 1,0;715    145,001  t.01'.295           11.441 24.9tJOJlt4               t
lI)'tb Vol                                    0 0                0         a         a  nZ9.190   :t5S.747    :34.290   417.858       75.718    45.93J8         0  f6,7r#7   579,7F1             0          0   8i20.843         0  5.9i9l917
'dflost r                   1041.704   170.1`    ln? I'P. I 013fiq9   il 3tr7   611ti37   7173390    q73,07     53453   53:.36:1    fi8045       90.743     35.287    353.771  t.7tfi4      10.'1        1   391.451         33.443 38.910.917
0 n trt n 3        p         p    n         n       n :!4'.%     .37429    :818719    I 37'37     :39I.t3    49.179         0     71.512    43886f          0         0   57R,785           0  6.412.7t!
rotrAn jewg                         0         n        n         n         p         p    14 .304    22.33:!2   Z.l'r1    53I43       :'.7,9    291324          0     43.221   :310114           0     39.V9   11511.13:4     4.115  7..2V9
ti3oIoew                     1641.70I041.704   170t139    l%0,041   303 t5i9  fit 3R7  1.157    34. U   t25t.13 o:  3.4:11   53i339    2.q7i     `1.4440    .3S.417    t7.4n6  3.775.75:3    30.7ti   15.374   57`5.532      7:0z6. R5.3 .4
19 :IIS       1R5R haemrfi   ates k Imn. mg
l8 fi         F91 aft" fttmurmg, lWe.rt Iams
11:33         FIR  lter te., 33 s InasrmItn
2851220,ZOe79         Fnual SPY ttl l'het  InumeaI t3A larst
t3-al-



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
CHIN&
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
High-Yield Plantation Research
It is essential that the research programs are tailored for both
ecological conditions and the species selected for planting. Species such as
Chinese fir and poplar are planted in a number of ecological zones and so the
source of planting stock and the methods of establishment will vary. The
present state of knowledge is different for each species and each research
program has different starting points. End products are often distinctive,
therefore, research targets will not always be the same. In general research
will be aimed at increasing productivity and the quality of the produce
through the use of improved seedlings or, where possible, clonal planting
stock.
The research programs prepared by MFO/CAF and approved by IDA
during negotiations will be implemented and supervised by the Research and
Extension Support panels and carried out by the Central and Provincial
Research Groups. Funding would be provided by the Central Government through
CAP and by provincial and county research institutes and universities.
Technical assistance in form of foreign specialists and study tours would be
financed under the IDA credit. An annual work program for the new Central
Research Groups will be prepared for November 1990 and reviewed by IDA. A
list of research institutes and scientists for carrying out these research
programs is given in the Preparation document, 'Plan of Research and Extension
on Major Afforestation Species," February 2, 1990. It is in the Project File.
1. RESEARCH PROGRAMS
1.1         Chinese fir
This is the most thoroughly researched conifer in the NAP program.
It is an important species in China and tolerant of a wide range of sites.
The research program has indicated which sites give optimal growth and these
results show that, in the past, Chinese fir was often planted on unsuited
sites.
1.1.1.      Objectives for the Chinese program:
-     To increase the size of trees at rotation age.
-     To increase the annual increment of plantations.



- 54 -                               ANNEX 2
1.1.2.      Current Achievements:
-     The best provenances have been identified.
-     Planting sites are accurately classified.
-     Plantation establishment standards have been
published.
-     Thinning schedules are itemized.
1.1.3.      Current Problems:
_     There is limited quantities of seed of preferred
provenances.
-     Clone selection is underway but methods to propagate
untested but promising clones in large numbers is
needed.
-     More studies are needed on stand density for different
site types.
-     Studies are needed to determine economic rotations on
different site types.
1.1.4.      Research Program:  The CSG will carry out a research program with
the following elements:
-     Increase production of seeds from selected sources,
even as interim Improved sources where necessary.
-     Develop managemeor  techniques to maximise seed
harvesting from seed production areas.
-     Devise methods for multiplication of selected but
untested clones in large numbers as interim improved
planting stock.
-     Continue progeny testing and increase clonal testing.
-     Study the two varieties (lanceolata and glauca) to
identify possible gains through selective crossing.
-     Intensify studies on mycorrhisal associations with
special reference to problematic siteo.
-     Continually cross check the standards defined to
ensure the best possible treatment in plantations.
l.l.S.      Implementations  MFO has already formed the CRG and the provincial
task forces for carrying out the program under 1.1.4.
1.2. Masson vine
A large percentage of the Masson pine planted has been on marginal
sites; as a result the overall growth is poor. Where this pine is planted on
good sites the production is very good. Many sites which would be suitable
for Masson pine have been planted with Chinese fir and this species is not
producing optimal growth. Many of these plantations are being converted to



- 55                              M ANNEX 2
Masson pine. The increased interest in Masson pine requires a larger input in
research than hitherto enjoyed by the species.
1.2.1.      Objectives:
-     To improve the yield of pulp.
-     To control caterpillar attack.
1.2.2.      Current Achievements:
-     Some outstanding provenances have been identified.
-     Nursery techniques have been improved vhich have
increased the survival in the field significantly.
-     Effective mycorrhiza have been identified and
cultured.
-     Standards for plantation establishment have been
published.
1.2.3.      Current Problems:
-     The number of outstanding trees selected are too few
and progeny testing needs to be increased.
-     An effective technique for clonal propagation is
needed.
-     Management of plantations established on suitable
sites requires review.
-     On certain sites the caterpillar continues to cause
serious damage.
1.2.4.      Research Programs
-     Intensive selection of outstanding phenotypes.
-     Increase progeny testing.
-     Develop techniques for clonal multiplication for
extensive planting.
-     Expand the studies on mycorrhisa.
-     Examine the possibility of hybridization with Southern
pines and possibly yunnanensis.
-     Continually review the published standards to ensure
the best establishment and management techniques are
being used.
1.2.5.      Implementations  MWO will set up experimental stations in Guizhou.
Fujian and Guanpxi to carry out the above program.
1.3. Poplar
Though some clones are imported a lot of poplars planted are of
indigenous species. Over 16S of the original NAP program was devoted to
poplar; it is a species which can be grown as a forest erop or with



- 56 -                            ANNEX 2
agriculture crops. Poplar is a good veneer wood, a useful timber and a
valuable short fibre pulp wood. The breeding program for poplar is advanced
and planting material is always clonal. The benefits of hybridization are
known and demonstrated.
1.3.1.      Objectives:
-     To improve the pulp yield.
-     To improve the quality of veneer and timber.
-     To study and extend the use of poplar in agro-forestry
systems.
-     To study and improve the bio-control of pathogens.
1.3.2.      Current Achievements:
-     Outstanding clones have been identified for different
climatic zones.
-     Planting techniques have been refined to give high
survival and good growth rates.
-     A number of agriculture inter-crops have shown good
levels of production.
1.3.3.      Current Problems:
-     New clones, both indigenous and exotic. are always
needed and as they are developed or imported they must
be tested.
-     Irrigation systems need study in conjunction with
inter-cropping.
-     The level of various pathogens requires constant
review.
1.3.4.      Research Programs
-     Clonal trials are needed on a range of site types to
expand the area for planting and improve productivity.
-     The inter-crop pattern requires continuous testing and
modification due to the interaction between clones,
crops and sites.
-     There is a need for the continual monitoring of
pathogens and work on controls through pesticides,
fungicides or, where possible, bio-controls.
-     Studies on possible mycorrhizal associations are
needed.
-     The hybridization program requires intensification.
1.3.5.             Implementation:  MFO will establish two experimental bases
related to plywood and match industries in the middle and lower reaches of the
Yangtze River and to improve Pollar tomentosa for construction timber and
pulpwood; a wide range of research activities as indicated in para 1.3.4.



-57-                               ANNEX 2
1.4. Larch
There are two species of larch which are very important on the
colder sites in the northern provinces. The wood is of good quality and there
are indications of significant increases in yield through hybridization.
1.4.1.      Objectivess
-     To improve the productivity of plantations.
-     To reduce the rotation age and improve wood quality.
1.4.2.      Current Achievemnts:
-     A number of outstanding provenances have been
identified.
-     Outstanding trees have been selected and clonal stock
raised.
-     Assisted pollination techniques have improved the
yield from seed production areas.
-     Hybrids between the indigenous larch and imported
species have indicated significant gains.
1.4.3.      Current Problem_s
-     The effects of interaction between sites and improved
stock are not known.
-     Studies on the mycorrhizal associations are needed.
-     Improved seed yield are needed.             4
-     The techniques for clonal production for large scale
planting require perfecting.
1.4.4.      Research Programs
-     To examine the interaction between improved
populations, both seedling and clonal, with various
types ot planting site.
-     Studies are needed to improve the amount of seed
formed.
-     Mycorrhizal associations require identification and
study.
-     Hybridization studies require expansion and
intensification.
1.4.5.      Implemutations  HPO will design the research program along the
lines as indicated in para 1.4.4. Three forest research stations will be set
up in Dalian, Daudong and Fushun, where the trials with larch will be carried
out.



- 58 -                           AM=  2
1.5 Exotic gines
Southern and Caribbean pines have performed vell on certain sites
in the southern provinces. Extensive research has been carried out on these
species in other countries and it is important that the NAP benefit from
research results which can be applied directly or adapted to conditions in
China. The species favored are slash pine, lablolly pine and the Cuban
variety of P hondurensis. Later these species vll have to be dealt with
separately but as the NAP is starting their programo can be effectively merged
because their initial requirements are similar.
1.5.1.      Objectives:
-     To develop improved seed sources.
-     To establish provenance resource stands for future
selection.
-     To develop clonal planting stock.
1.5.2.      Current Achievements:
-     A number of superior provenances of loblolly pine have
been identified.
-     Slash pine shows little provenance variation so
concentration is on selection of individual trees.
-     Containerized planting stock give good establishment.
-     Kycorrhizal inoculation is beneficial.
-     Field establishment methods have been standardized.
1.5.3.      Current Problem:s
-     The seed sources which have been established are not
of the best provenances.
-     Techniques for cloning to provide adequate planting
stock have not been perfected.
-     More silviculture studies are needed to ensure rapid
early growth and maximise productivity.
1.5.4.      Research Programs
-     Establish Seedling Seed Production Areas and
Provenance Resource Stands with seed imported from
improved sources overseas.
-     Develop orchard management techniques to maximise seed
yields.
-     Develop techniques for raising clonal planting stock
from selected individuals.
-     Examine the silviculture requirements of exotic pine
plantations.



- 59 -                          ANNEX 2
-     Identify the best mycorrhiza for planting stock
inoculation.
_     Examine the potential for hybridization within the
exotic pines and also with indigenous species.
-      lMonitor pathogens.
1.5.5.      Implementation:  Priority would be given to genetic improvement,
establishment of second generation seed orchards, improved seed orchard
management. expansion of vegetative propagation and clonal testing.
1.6. Eucalvots
Over the past three decades eucalypts have become the most widely
planted exotics worldwide and form the basis of many industrial cellulose
Industries. There is a long history of eucalypt planting in China. Recent
work in Guanmi demonstrated the potential for a number of hitherto untried
species. These data combined with remarkable advances made in other countries
opens a new level of productivity for the NAP.
1.6.1.      Objectives:
aTo select species best suited to the planting sites
available giving preference to those with good wood
qualities and high productivity.
-     Establish Seedling Seed Production Areas and
Provenance Resource Stands from the most promising
sources.
4            -      Develop clonal planting stock populations.
1.6.2.      Current Achievements:
-     The growth potential for a number of good quality
eucalypts (globulus. grandis, urophylla, etc.) has
been demonstrated.
-     A number of superior provenances have been identified.
-     The effectiveness of clonal planting stock has been
effectively demonstrated.
-     Nursery techniques are being tested and some
significant improvements are emerging.
1.6.3.      Current Problems:
-     A guide to species and provenance selection for the
available sites is needed.
-     Breeding programs for the individual species which are
shOwing promise are required.
-     Studies on potential mycorrhizal associations have to
be initiated.
-     Hybridization has proved effective in many countries
and is likely to be important for the NAP program.



- 60 -                           AME  2
1.6.4.      Research Prograsm
-     To establish Seedling Seed Production Areas and
Provenance Research Stands for each selected species.
-     Development of techniques for orchard management to
mauimi seed yields.
-     Establishment of propagation facilities and
development of populations for clonal multiplication
in selected plantation areas.
-     Examination of mycorrhizal associations.
-     Studies in hybridization.
1.6.5.       mplemntations  Continued research is carried out on E. irandis
and S. tereticornis and introduction of _. uroghvlla, S. tlobulus and E.
niteno. MFO will design a research program as indicated in para 1.6.4 and
complete with Australian assistance the establishment of the Chinese Center of
Eucalypt Research and Development in Bai Jiayu.
1.7. Broad-leaf species
A little over 6t of the NAP program is for broad-leaf species
including some indigenous species such as elm and exotics including locust,
teak and the fast growing falcataria. Although only a small proportion of the
entire program these species are very important. They are sometimes mixed
with conifers where they are thought to reduce pathogens on the conifers.
Paulownia is the most efficiently researched of these species and the program
developed forms an excellent model for the genetic improvement of any species.
1.7.1.      Objectives:
-     To reduce the present rotation ages.
-     To standardize breeding programs for the broad-leaf
species.
-     To select outstanding individuals for cloning.
-     To improve establishment techniques.
1.7.2.      Curreant Achievements:
-     The paulownia program is a model of excellent genetic
research.
-     A number of superior clones have been found for some
of the species.
-     Clonal propagation techniques for the production of
planting stock have been successful for some species.
1.7.3.      Current Problems:
-     The number of species for planting on available sites
should be reviewed and extended.



- 61 -                            A)NEX 2
-     More intensive clone testing is required.
-     Clonal propagation techniques are needed for the
remaining broad-leaf species.
-     Studies on establishment and silviculture should be
intensified.
-     The likely mycorrhizal associations require
investigation.
1.7.4.      Research Programs
_     Selection of new species, evaluation of provenances
and clones.
-     Establishment of improved seed sources.
-     Establishment of multiplication gardens to supply
improved material for clonal propagation.
-     Evaluation of site requirements for the different
species.
-     Determination of the best silviculture techniques for
different species on various sites.
_     Examination od mycorrhizal associations.
-     Identification of the potential for hybridization.
1.7.5.      Implementations  Design and carry out a research program
containing the elements as indicated in para 1.7.4.
1.8. Fertilizer Application
Fertilizer application is a highly specialized aspect of
plantation establishment and management. Although suitable recipes have to be
worked out for each species and site the fertilizer program is best separated
from the studies of individual species. It is likely that, as studies develop
and significant results are identified, fertilizer research will be merged
with individual species research.
1.8.1.      Objectives:
-     To determine the critical levels of fertilizer for
different species on the planting sites available.
-     To determine the best time for fertilizer application
for different species on the planting sites available.
-     To examine the interaction between fertilizer
application, provenances, clones and sites.
1.8.2.      current  chievements:
-     A number of trials have been established involving a
range of species on different sites.
-     The timing of fertilizer application is being
examined.



- 62 -                             ANX 2
_     A number of fertilizer schedules have been
standardized.
1.8.3.      Current Problems:
_     The proportion of each ingredient in the fertilizer
application needs to be refined.
-     The best methods of applying required fertilizers has
to be determined.
-     The timing of fertilizer application has to be related
to differences in seasonal changes from year to year.
1.8.4.      Research Programs
-     Evaluation of established trials.
-     Establishment of trials to consolidate results from
initial observations.
-     Determine methods of evaluating fertilizer
requirements on available planting sites.
Develop a system of monitoring to ensure that the use
of fertilizers does not detrimentally affect adjacent
land.
1.9. Wood Testina
Wood is a highly heterogeneous product with wide variation between
species and also within species. Studies into tree genetics have shown that
careful selection of provenances, progeny and clones can significantly
increase productivity from plantations with identical volume growth. This
level of selection poses two critical problems. The first is to identify
variation at a very early age. The second to determine this variation from a
small sample of wood. Equipment and techniques have been developed in some
countries and results from early testing of certain wood qualities have proved
advantageous in production programs.
1.9.1.      Objectivess
-     To develop techniques for testing very small wood
samples to estimate likely gains through tree
breeding.
-     To develop techniques for test very young woody
material to estimate the quality of the mature wood.
-     To evaluate species and determine their likely multi-
purpose end use:.
2.9.2.      Current Achievements:
-     Some wood density determinations have been made.
-     Equipment is available for testing large samples.



- 63 -                            ANNEX 2
1.9.3.      Current Problems
-     No equipment is available in China for testing very
small wood samples.
1.9.4.      Research Programs
-     To review programs for early testing of small size
wood samples in other parts of the world to determine
the methods best suited for China.
-     To organize purchase and installation of equipment
suitable for testing young small size wood samples.
-     To organize training for staff in the techniques of
early wood small scale wood properties testing.
2. CONCLUSIONS
CAP have an extensive research program studying all aspects of
forestry throughout China. The NAP is only a small part of the national
forest tree planting program but since it is directed at high-yielding species
saoe specific research studies are required. The present system of separating
individual species and groups of species is ideal. As research information
accumulates it will gradually become necessary to concentrate more and more on
individual species or even particular provenances or groups of clones.
General studies on fertilizer and wood properties are suited to the current
situation and present level of knowledge. During the course of the NAP it may
become necessary to separate these into detailed examination of specific
aspects.



-64-                                ANNEX 2
Total estimates for S-year period (Eighth S-Year Plan)
Y Million
9 Research Prosrams
Operational Cost coveredLa
by Central Governiment                               6.2
Operational Cost covered/a
by provinces and counties                           22.0
Equipment                                             6.4
Fertilizer and Seed                                   0.1
TA (40 c/veeks including
advisory panel                                       2.0
Study tours                                           3.8
TOTAL                       40.5
la Skilled labor, temporary labor.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
NATIONAL AFF-ORESTATION  RGA
Accelerated Planting Material Developmont Prokram'
1. INTRODUCTION
1.          There are some areas where research results, already available
from within China or abroad, could be applied to current field practices.
Such innovations will have to be implemented on a pilot scale to adapt them to
local requirements and methods.
2.          The main aspects of the accelerated improved stock production plan
requiring immediate attention are seed production areas, expansion of clonal
forestry, prospects for hybridization and the implication of mycorrhizal
associations. At the central level the CAF should significantly increase
current inputs into wood quality testing with particular reference to testing
very young material. Specific items to be included in the expanded program
for this accelerated production plan require explanation and suggestions
indicating where the work will be most effectively located. The object of
this addition to the project is to accelerate the effectiveness of scientific
research in the national afforestation program through intensively managed
high yield plantation project.
Im2rovement of Seed Production Areas
3.          NTSSC has a very large seed harvesting and seed distribution
program. Close association with CAF has led to the identification of improved
provenances for many species and sources from which this improved seed can be
collected. The genetic quality of seeds is improved in a lengthy process
involving a number of stages each resulting in a certain degree of
improvement. The various stages will be explained later under 'Indigenous
Species" below. Maximum gains will be obtained only after long periods and
intensive testing. Luckily, successes in other countries have indicated
certain shortcuts, associated with improvement stages which provide
productivity gains, not maximal but significantly better than routine
harvests.
4.          All seed improvement work follows the same path and the speed of
success varies with the response of the species, its genetic structure and the
availability of material for improvement. The point for commencement of
The program was prepared by MFO and CAP and approved by IDA during
negotiations.



- 66 -
ANNME 3
improvement techniques differs when applied to indigenous or exotic species.
These groups are dealt with separately.
Exotic Species:
5.          The most important exotic species in the program are Italian
poplar, southern pines, eucalypts, black wattle and black locust. Both poplar
and locust are propagated vegetatively and therefore large quantities of seed
will not be required. Seed for the pines, eucalypts and wattles are being
imported for the project.
6.          Southern pines have been extensively researched in USA, Brazil and
a number of other countries, and "improved" seed is available on the
International market. The best provenances for China have been determined and
'improved' seed purchased from these sources for the project. Improved is in
inverted commas because of the stages of improvement referred to above. The
American improvement programs are long-established and seed orchards are
continually being upgraded. Seeds available in large quantities are marketed
from older orchards representing an early degree of improvement wi..ch is less
than current levels but better than natural forest harvests.
7.          Most eucalypts have not been as intensively researched as the
southern pines and seed supplies are frequently from natural stands. There
are exceptions, particularly in Brazil and Zimbabwe, but most large quantities
on the market are collected from the natural forest with little attention to
form and growth of the parent trees. Seeds for the project are already
ordered but more will be needed. A thorough survey of commercial sources is
needed but local application of improvement practices is required.
8.          The best researched plantations of black wattle are in South
Africa where the species is grown for tannin extraction. A number of
commercial sources exist in Australia and India, some of which are of improved
quality. A review of the provenance results is needed together with a survey
of the seed market for black wattle.
Indigenous Species:
9.          The national improved seed supply program organized by CAF is
based on that developed in America. It starts with establishment of clonal
seed orchards (CSO) using untested clones from the Candidate Plus Trees
(CPTs). The genotypes of the CPTs are tested in progeny trials and clone
trials; only the best will be retained in the CSOs. Since this testing and
roguing will take some time, interim seed sources are needed for the ongoing
planting program.
10.         Chinese fir, masson pine and larch are the most i-ortant
indigenous species in the project, accounting for nearly 60% e` the area to be
planted. The first stage of improvement always is a debatable point, whether
it is through the collection of seeds from trees selected for their
outstanding form and growth or from natural stands of a proven provenance. In



- 67 -
AMSE 3
China there are natural forests of all three species and also mature
plantations from which seed can be collected. Reliable provenance data
indicate the best origins and an extensive tree selection programme has
located a large number of CPTs, i.e. outstanding phenotypes. As an interim
measure seed harvesting can be limited to trees of outstanding form from the
best possible provenances. These are chosen from plantations already forming
seeds.
11.         Interim seed sources are called Seed Stands.  Their potential for
productivity gains depends upon their origin and treatment. The source of a
natural stand is known but not always the origin of plantations. An important
division of sources recognizes 'Source Identified9 and 'Source Unidentifiedo
seeds. The former can be applied to natural stands and also to plantations of
known and authenticated origin; the latter applies to good plantations
established with seeds from an unrecorded origin. It is important to make
this distinction for plantation sources because a stand may originate from a
poor provenance or even from seed collected from a single tree. Stands raised
from a poor genetic base may have adequate first generation growth but their
progeny (F2) will be poor, i.e. they will be unsuitable for Seed Stands.
12.         The physical quality of likely candidate Seed Stands should be
assessed so that they can be compared. Growth parameters, including height,
bole length, dbh, stem straightness, stem circularity and branch habit, are
assessed. Distribution diagrams are prepared using suitable classes of the
particular parameter. These diagrams indicate the normality or otherwise of
the stand: some may be skewed, some twin peaked, etc.; priority is given to
normal stands with a compact distribution of growth classes.
13.         Once a stand has been accepted as outstanding in comparison to
others, it must be culled of unwanted trees. To guarantee the best possible
gain from these interim seed sources, up to 90% of the crop is removed
(culled) leaving a stocking of only 100 of the best trees/ha. Care must be
taken on problematic sites to prevent erosion after such rigorous culling;
this can be done by planting an understorey of a suitable species, along
contours when necessary. Improved seeds will be available following the first
flowering season after culling. Thus, Seed Stands are formed from existing
mature stands of trees which have been calculated as better than others of the
same species and culled of at least 90% stocking, retaining only the best
parent trees. Hygienic thinnings, normally carried out in plantations, have
little effect on seed quality. The planned and scientifically calculated
culling of Seed Stands will guarantee gains in tree form and productivity.
14.         To maximize the quantity of improved the quality seeds being
harvested quickly, a crash program of stand assessment and culling is needed.
The system is relatively simple but best demonstrated by someone who has used
it. Ideally someone should do this in China in mature stands of chosen
species (Chinese fir, Masson pine, etc.). A short training program will be
adequate to prepare staff at county level to undertake the assessments.
Training also could include adaptation of a computer program for analysis of
field data.



- 68 -
wANMg 3
15.         Another system used to established improved seed sources can be
developed concurrently with the Seed Stand program; it is a program for
establishing Seedling Seed Production Areas. These are of seedling origin
like the Seed Stands but their selection is related to their origin rather
than growth. They can be new plantations raised with seed from a known
superior source or plantations of only three or four years provided they are
known to be of an authenticated improved source. Research results in many
countries, Including China, indicate that second generation plantations of
both exotic and indigenous species are better than the first generation
plantations. Thus, a target must be set to harvest seeds from second
generation stands of superior origin as quickly as possible. Seedling Seed
Production Areas are such stands which have been already culled and prepared
for improved seed harvesting.
16.         Culling can commence in such plantings from a very early age and
continue through to first seed production. Each cull is based on assessment
of the crop distribution curves. A small percenitage of trees are removed each
year and by first flowering only about 100 stems/ha should remain. The basis
for this approach is that the genetic source of the potential seed production
area is one of the best available at the time of planting. To improve this
further only the very best individuals are retained. Naturally a stand which
receives such heavy and frequent culling will not have the same growth as a
normal plantation and the basic form of the trees will also be affected.
However, the genotype will not be changed and, in fact, will be improved in
merchantable growth and form by the continuous removal of substandard trees.
17.         Seedling Seed Production Areas are, therefore, stands raised from
seed of known outstanding origin which have been repeatedly culled to retain
only the best trees. Both Seed Stands and Seedling Seed Production Areas
complement the production of improved seed from CSOs. Seed Stand sources are
immediately available and are likely to produce a degree of improvement which
is just below that of Untested CSOs. Harvesting in Seedling Seed Production
Areas will commence a little later than from the Untested CSOs but will have a
level of improvement better than Untested CSOs and slightly poorer than seed
from Tested CSOs.
Proiect Reguirements
18.         A number of potential Seed Stands must be located in different
counties and different provinces for Chinese fir, masson pine, larch and also
the exotic pines, eucalypts and wattles if suitable plantations exist. The
proposed stands will be assessed and compared. The best stands will be
converted into Seed Stands as quickly as possible. Sufficient stands to
supply 20S to 30% of the project seed must be culled during the first year of
the project.
19.         Young plantations of known high quality origin will be located and
a program developed to systematically cull them to form Seedling Seed
Production Areas by the period of first flowering (at least six successive



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
annual culls will be needed). Seed from known outstanding origins also will
be planted on selected sites and developed into Seedling Seed Production Areas
for the future. The area of such stands will be related to the projected seed
requirements and plans for establishment of Tested CSOs. By the year of first
seed harvesting the target is sufficient seed for 40% to 50% of the plantation
area.
Teams for selecting seed stands and organizing seedling seed production
areas,
20.         (i)     The overall scheme is designed and supervised by an
experienced professional tree breeder.
(ii)    At provincial level a professional tree breeder will
oversee all the work.
(iii)   For field work a team will be made up of one Technical
Officer (who has shown interest in tree improvement) with
two skilled laborers and one additional laborer (if
necessary)
21.         In the field measurements and subjective assessments will be made
by skilled laborers and records kept by the Technical Officer. Analysis is by
the Technical Officer and interpretation by the Professional Officer.
Vegetative Prolasatljon
22.         Vegetative propagation has two separate assets in the improvement
of forest tree planting stock. The first is the direct application of the
technique to plantation establishment and the second relates to improvement
through hybridization. The use of clonal planting stock is well known in
China; most broad-leaf species are established this way. Elsewhere in the
world the system is being increasingly used for pine and eucalypts. With
these species clonal forestry is relatively new and therefore often limited to
research programs. This should not be the case for Chinese fir, larch,
southern pine and eucalypts in China because the requirements for mass
production are already tried and tested. However, research is needed to
develop the technique for masson pine.
23.         The long-term approach to developing sound clonal populations is
well documented. CPTs are selected and cloned; each separate clone is
compared with others on a wide range of sites. The best and most suitable are
then planted in pure block mosaics. Testing a series of clones requires a lot
of time and effort but it must be done. However, work in this field has
continued long enough to prove that certain shortcuts can be used to derive
the benefit from the exceptional growth of clonal stock during the interim
period before the optimum improvement is attained. These shortcuts can be
initiated only if satisfactory reliable facilities for clonal plant production
and adequate suitable plant material are available.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Clonal Nursery Facilities:
24.         The most commonly used facilities for clonal production are high
humidity chambers. These are sophisticated structures in subtropical and
temperate areas where heating and misting are needed. If cuttings root
satisfactorily under mist alone then simpler structures can be planned. A lot
of work has been successfully carried out in China. This requires review and
the most suitable methods for various locations documented. It is vital that
sufficiently large facilities are installed to produce plants in adequate
numbers to satisfy the extensive plantation programme. They should be
installed as soon as possible and tested to ensure their reliability. It is
possible that some technical advice may be required to design suitable clonal
nurseries with adequate capacities for the range of sites chosen.
25.         For Eucalypts 20 ha multiplication gardens will be established in
Cuangdou and Hainan; for Chinese fir 50 ha in Anhui, Jiangxi, Fujian, Hunan,
Zhejiang and Hubei.
Multiplication Garde-is:
26.         Multiplication g^ardens will be needed adjacent to the propagation
units for providing sufficient plant material for rooting because
transportation often seriously reduces rooting ability. These will be stocked
with untested clones initially. At the commencement of extensive clonal
production programs it is sometimes difficult to retain the exact identity of
clones. In such circumstances clone identities are retained only in the
research program while the production program uses multi-clone populations.
Such populations can be upgraded easily and quickly after as the first
plantings develop and are eventually replaced by identified clones.
27.         Successful rooting is directly related to stock-plant management,
i.e. management of the multiplication gardens. Rooting propensity varies with
the physiological maturity of the stock-plant. Treatments in multiplication
gardens are aimed at rejuvenating the plants and keeping them in healthy.
Various techniques are used usually related to coppicing or hedging. The most
effective methods are already known in China for the species concerned but
methods of managing multiplication gardens of adequate size have to be
developed. There are a number of specialists in this field and it would be
valuable to utilize them to draw up management plans for multiplication
gardens of the different species.
28.         At the present stage of knowledge it is probable that provincial
departments will be reluctant to invest the amount of money required to
install clonal nursery facilities and develop the multiplication gardens.
However, their investment will be repaid quickly once clonal stock is planted.
It is critical that the extension team under the PSP convince the various
farms of the benefits of this innovation.



- 71 -
ANEX 3
Prolect Requirements
29.         A number of nurseries in a number of different counties and
provinces should be nominated for the clonal production of selected species.
In these nurseries suitable facilities for propagation should be installed
adequate to raise stock for planting at least 20% of the area for that
species. Staff will require training for the installation and maintenance of
these facilities.
30.         Alongside each nursery a multiplication garden should be
established with sufficient plants to provide cuttings for rooting enough
planting stock for the proposed programme. The site will require careful
preparation and it is likely that overhead irrigation will be needed. Some
horticulture training will be needed to ensure stock-plants are maintained in
near perfect condition.
Hy_br_idization
31.         The benefits of hybridization are well known and are utilized
already in China for larch and poplar. There are two ways to improve
production through hybridization. The first is locating two species which
hybridize freely producing reliable planting stock; the second is selecting
outstanding individuals in a hybrid swarm and cloning them.  The second
approach has been most commonly used in forestry.
32.         Although natural hybridization can be utilized in an improvement
programme, the best results accrue from controlled pollination.
Unfortunately, forest trees present certain fundamental problems, not the
least being the inaccessibility of flowers. Many species are hermaphrodite
and often flowers are very small, e.g. eucalypts; this complicates
emasculation prior to pollination. Vegetative propagation can be used to
retain the physiological maturity of plants through grafting or layering.
Often plants propagated in this way form flowers within a year of propagation
which are accessible from the ground. During the initial period of the
project sites should be chosen in a number of different farms to establish
grafted stock of CPTs in order to have centralized areas for controlled
pollination. Sites should be of good quality and easily accessible. The
individual identities of all clones must be retained.
33.         The potential for increased volume production through
hybridization is very important for the eucalypts. Urophylla hybridizes with
a number of species, particularly grandis and saligna and their hybrids are
known to be of excellent quality. Pines will also hybridize and this approach
may prove useful for the indigenous masson pine. Some training in propagation
techniques may be required. Harvesting pollen and its application during
pollination is specialized work and a training program will be needed.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Project Requirements
34.         Areas in which hybridization units could be established should be
identified and staff capable of developing hybridization programs allocated to
the task. Program should be reviewed in November 1990.
Mvzorrhiza Studies
35.         CAF have already recognized the importance of having the correct
mycorrhiza for masson pine plantations and there are plans in the research
program to extend this to the eucalypt program. Research in other countries
is beginning to indicate the importance and potential of these symbiotic
relationships. This aspect of research requires both intensification and
expansion to all plantation species. Laboratory facilities are needed to
isolate mycorrhizal species and culture them. Field laboratory facilities
will be needed to develop techniques for mass inoculation and examine the
effect on tree growth. Studies should be extended into provincial units
through a program designed and supervised by CAF. The work will be an
integral part of the Bank's afforestation project. Although the importance of
mycorrhiza has been recognized for a very long time its significance in
afforestation is new for many species. As a result there are few specialists
in this field and it will be necessary to utilize them when developing the
program in China.
Project Requirements
36.         The CAF mycorrhiza experts will nominate sites at which the
different plantation species are to be studied. There should be at least
three sites for each species. Essential laboratory facilities will be
installed at each site and suitable staff selected for training and developing
the studies. The requirements are similar to a normal mycalogy lab (or even
tissue culture lab). The amount of money required depends on whetlher the work
is centralized or dispersed. It should be in a numzer of places and labs can
probably be equipped at a cost of about US$50,000 each.
Properties of Plantation Wood
37.         Intensive research studies into the relationship between wood
properties and industrial usage have been effectively illustrated by the
research teams in Aracruz and North Carolina. Introduction of clonal planting
material demonstrated the importance of between-clone variation in wood
properties. Early identification of these clonal differenr.es and their
utilization will increase productivity rapidly. Luckily, there is a good
correlation between juvenile and mature wood for many important wood
properties such as wood density, fibre length. chemical constitution, etc.
38.         Traditional investigations of wood properties require large
quantities of wood and this presents a problem when dealing with newly
developed clones. In recent years more attention has been paid to methods of



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
determining wood quality from very small samples. This is a very important
research tool for afforestation programs and its potential for the Bank
project requires review and implementation. Initially the main concentration
should be on the properties of Chinese fir, poplar and paulownia clones but
the techniques should be quickly extended to the other species.  A number of
international institutions have specialized in these studies and the expertise
is arailable and should be utilized for training during the project.
Prolect Requirements
39.         The late.t equipment and techniques used in testing wood
properties of very small wood samples requires review. A system of routine
clone testing should be developed and the most suitable apparatus for this
work installed at CAF.
Guidelines
Seed stands:
40.   i)    Calculate the area of SS's needed to supply seed for 20%-30% of
the project planting program from 100 seed trees/ha.
ii)   For each species nominate key farms in different counties in a
number of provinces.
iii) All mature plantations will be listed and divided into Source
Identified and Source Unidentified. Those identified as originating from
research selected provenances will be given top priority, thE research
rejected provenances will be left out of the program. If there is
insufficient area of acceptable Source Identified plantations the best Source
Unidentified plantation will be assessed. The areas allocated for assessment
will be at least three times that required to allow for selection of only the
very best stands for conversion.
iv)   Assessment can commence immediate stands are allocated their
priority. The location and extent of the Ctand is recorded, together with the
date of planting and its authenticated origin. At least two 0.25 ha plots one
located and assessed: they are sited to represent the variation of the stand.
Each plot cvan be 30 x 30 rows of planting spots. Assessors start at the first
planting spot in the first row. If it is vacant, it can be recorded as either
a r-n'rtality or thinning depending on whether or not a stump exists. To limit
the amount of field work but not affect data required for evaluation of stand
potential, all trees below the canopy have only height and dbh measurements
recorded. All canopy trees are assessed for: height, dbh, bole (timber)
length, stem straightness (lower third, lower two-thirds, total tree axis),
stem circulating (breast height, mid-point of bole), branching (persistence,
angle, size).
41.         The last three (in effect eight) records are subjectively assessed
rather than measured. The subjective assessment utilizes a "1" to "61 scale



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
where "1" represents excellence and "6" is unacceptably poor.  It is usual for
two assessors to work together for these subjective records. Should one
decide on "2" and his partner "3" they arrive at a consensus of " 2.1" to "3.9"
through discussion of their reasons.
v)    Analysis is undertaken as quickly as possible recording after
assessment. First the level of stocking and possibly mortalities are checked
then the evaluation of height and dbh. The measurements are divided into
suitable size classes, possibly lm-5m for height and 2 cm dbh classes, and a
distribution diagram is drawn. It is useful to produce these using tree
numbers to form histograms for the size classes. If any tree appears in an
unusual or unexpected class it would be possible to check it for possible
record error in the field from its number.
vi)   Interpretation of the analysis will decide whether the stand
should be included fot comparison with other stands. Priority is given to
stands with single peaks reasonably closely spread about the mean. Form
characteristics are also reviewed at this time.
vii) As soon as data from 10 or more stands of a species have been
analysed and interpreted certain stands will be chosen for immediate culling
to convert them into Seed Stands.
viii) After culling the site is cleaned and an understorey or
agriculture crop planted to protect the site and minimise weed growth. The
first harvest of improved seed will be made from fruits formed after the first
flowering season following culling. Some of this seed must be used for pilot
plantations.
Seedling seed production areas:
42.   i)    Calculate the -rea of SSPA's needed to supply seed for 40% to 50%
of the planting area based on the final SSPA stocking of 100 stems/ha.
ii)   Review all research results and growth data and list all
outstanding seed sources immediately available. These may be natural stands,
authenticated Fl or F2 plantations. Seed stands, selected see trees, half-
sib seeds from Candidate Plus Trees, etc.
iii) Obtain quantities of authenticated seed from the nominated sources
sufficient to plant up the area calculated for SSPA's. This seed should be
thoroughly cleaned and graded before sowing. Enough seeds should be sown to
permit a necessary culling level of between 50% and 70%.
iv)   The key farms for the species to be included will be nominated in
a number of counties in different provinces.
v)    Sites at the nosminated farms will be examined and only the best
used for establishment of SSPA's. Suitable sites must be easily accessible on
reasonably flat land or gently undulating slopes.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
vi)   Considerable care is given to site preparation bringing it to a
level normally used for agriculture cash crops.
vii) The site will be planted with special care during the best part of
the planting season using seedlings of outstanding physical quality and
homogeneity. The spacing should be 3m x 3m, but narrower espacements can be
used when necessary.
viii) Culling will commence in year 3 or 4 depending upon the growth, it
should start when the mean height is about 3m.
ix)   Culling is targetted to reduce the stock'ng by culling annually to
have 100 seed trees/ha at the time of first flowering. Thus, the number of
culls and their annual intensity will vary from species to species and be
determined from a review of scientific data.
x)    Prior to each cull a number of 0.25 ha temporary sample plots will
be established in each stand. Initially only height is measured but as the
stand develops dbh is included and the various form parameters (stem
straightness, stem circulating branch characters). All trees with unwanted
abnormalities such as low forking, lost apical dominance disease, etc. will be
reviewed. Histograms of the growth and form characters are drawn and a
percentage of trees, commensurate with the calculated annual culling level,
from the poorer end of the scale are felled.
XiD   As the stand canopy opens an understorey or pattern of agriculture
crops should be planted.



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
3.3. Cost estimates
Y ' 000
a) Improvement of Seed Production
areas
- Operational Cost                     900
- TA (8 C/W)                           300
b) Seed Orchards and Nultiplication
Gardens Improvement
- Operational Cost                   3,780
- Equipment + Construction           1,200
- TA (8 C/W)                           300
c) Hybridization
- Operational Cost                     870
- TA (8 C/W)                           90Q
8,250



4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
77 -                                       Annex
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Organizadonal Schwe
axum aM utrAUwb Of                 Hiuh Yllbiaif Pfidhuin OrdUu
Ows~~~r              _ H     bl 7_ O
.3_ ,
,                     ''  '   --  -    -- V. - '-'    ' ;.   -.   . .   -= ,.
AB  tI"Mi_ _b_,      i.      ' '*n C
LG   LsIg Omup                W0K:S 
S0FE W0. 9W . 
P rec D*pL                    RN--  D  _ fte''','
Finmi                 Fbri OMdm
~~~~~~~~~Gwr s                  F;sa                                                      ' . A  >t.j
t                                  i~~~~~~i
|   1  1   rf  Fu8              Li   . - -    ; !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 1 -
T          I,                     .  [         Ex Pa l    1 0.    - - N |
4~~~~~~~rv  Fom                                                                  J .s 
NoW: ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      m
ABC  A4rtaJJ B d CManahra;  C  Oq;
AfOtin So                         ap;
OForHsy Exfio F;SPC 1 *C
PC    Phnalrg'=.'W Pwqeole
90UICE: ~ ~   ~     ~    s"rc                           M' :S!e  r,



- 78 -
ktmex 5
Flow of Funds
Ministry of Finance
(On-lends IDA credits)
Ministry d Forestry (MFO)
(On-leads 97% of IDA credits)'
L
Provincial MPO Project Offices
(Number: 1i)
(On-leads IDA credits and counterpart funds)'
County MFO Project Offices
(Number:)vj
(On-leads IDA credits and counterpart funds)'
State Forest Farms                      Collective and                        Silviculture
(Number: approx. 300)                   Cooperative                           Investmaent
(259% of on-lent funds)                Forest Farms                           Companies
(15% of on-lent funds)
Share agreements with
Collective and Cooperative
FP..st Farms
'Balance of IDA credit used for research. technical assistance and training.
'Counterpart funds mobilized from provincial and '.#refecture governments.
'Counterpart funds mobilized from county gov:'nments.



- 79 -
Annex 6
CHINA
National Afforestation Project
Key Implementation Actions and Supervision Plan
June 1990s   31O to procure fertilizer by ICB for first planting
season
June to October 1990t   M0 to prepare (a) proposal for 330,000 hectares of
plantations (b) draft work and financing plan for 1991,
and (c) plan for pilot plantations.
November 1990s   IDA Supervision Mission
(a) review proposal for 330,000 hectares of plantation;
(b) discuss PO 1's draft work and financing plan for 1991;
and (c) review plan for pilot plantations. Staffing:two
foresters, economist, environment specialist. Total 20
staff weeks.
By December 31, 1990:   MPO to submit (a) progress reports on research program
and accelerated planting material development program;
and (b) final work plan for 1991.
January 1991:   IDA review and corment on above documents.  Forester,
environment specialist, economist. Total 2 staff weeks.
By March 30, 1991:   317 to submit Semi-annual progress report.
By June 30, 1991s   31O to submit draft forest resource management plans for
three provinces.
May 1991s   IDA Supervision Mission
Review issues raised in Semi-Annual progress report.
Special focus on research and accelerated planting
material development programs. Staffing: two technical
staff, economist. (12 staff weeks)
October 1"9Ii  Supervision Mission to coincide with preparation of work
plan for 1992. (12 staff weeks.)
1992   Two supervision missions - At least one to include
environment specialist to review implementation of
environmental guidelines.
1993:   Two supervision missions
1994, 1995. 1996s   At least one supervision mission per year.



- 80 -
Annex 7
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Working Papers and Documents in the Project File
1.    Forestry Sector Loan Project Feasibility Study &
Preparation Report (with 8 Annexes) by Ministry of Forestry,
Beijing, October, 1989.
2.    A Feasibility Report on High-Yield Forests Development
Project of The World Bank Loan in Jiangxi Provinces by
Jiangxi Forestry Bureau, Nanchang, March, 1989.
3.    Notes on the Forestry Sector Loan, Preparation Mission Report; by
Interforest (consultant firm), September 1989
4.    Provisional Regulations for Establishment of High-Yielding
Plantations, Ministry of Forestry, Beijing, 198f.
5.    Working Paper on Research and Conifer Silviculture, by
William T. Gladstone (consultant), November 1989.
6.    Analysis of Silviculture, Research and Extension Proposals,
with Emphasis on the Broad-leaved Species Component, by
A. R. Griffin (consultant), December 1989.
7.    Data Base on Wood Processing Industry And Market Aspects
by Karl Kehr (consultant), December 1989.
8.    Report on Seed and Seedlings for the Forestry Sector Loan
by Keith Gould (consultant), November 12, 1989.
9.    Process Control in Plantation Forestry, Program of
Intensively Managed Plantations for Early Harvest, by Brian
Allison (consultant), December 1989.
10.   Soil and Moisture Conservation Techniques for High-Yielding Forest
Plantations, by John Greenfield (consultant), December 1989.



IN0  1I2-                                                                                                            i4 Rjo  liB'  t    -   1b;   t/  IBRDR2226s
CHINA                                                                        .-.}
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT                                                                        NEI - MONGOL                                             -
UAONING, HEBEI, AND SHANDONG PROVINCES                                                                                                                    4--                                   JI L i, IN
42'
42-        [117POPLAR
LARCH
PAULOWNIA
N MSCELUANEOUS BRPOADLEAF SPECIES
o   SELECTED TOWNS                      (
---RAILROADS
- RIVERS
GRAND CANAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                    xi=
-40w                                                                                    SHt                                                                                                                 40,
,O 50    loIso    190    i  sqo                                                                                                                                      -  J          DEM. PEOPLE'S
KOREA
E=k&bCodc   Th..wu.da
&h<,>ncho.,o'* - do oi.I - t f. Ap,no Th Mh,&_
.dA~h.oMFwoo,awmho s~Mavohkgddt6 .4 .
/  J     r   G     >                                                                                         B e fi-If ,.It9  
, ..                                t.         t-d                               a        ,.-~ 
38
-38- '7
SHANXI
Zlb*   Welfang                                      124-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
*  ZZ2'4)  KF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  Talon ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       NG0    
/  j,r,,J,                                                                                                                ANOANDONGW
, /  "''    _    W
HENAN
112-                       lI'*i14.j-,-j                                                                                                                                          ,uvw
Id'   *  _                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 199



.SHANG                                                                                                     )<.... \..s  1\hOJOAX.JLI '
4 * t ,-4 t > ~~~~~~J  I A    N    G   S    U                                                             I NE MNiO ro   ,*
HEiNAN            ,.   '-.Suhou                          j       1 > \\ ' slc.UAN    -l U.1_/'u 
.     J                  .     W M      , i        J \Br                                                ON-O. , 
43P       !                     - X   Mconsho44                         X                   .   :~~~~~~~~~~ongho
9**_/#_.-)    {*-~~~i           o unO     r - K          2i       {                       4!So9e
l  + O Husngsh;  *                                 X   i             ,        t       in s~Moonh                           32
0441.          |o-%           ogRigdze LuXJnh                                                             ino
'   Nunchung Ss               t               /~~~~~~~~~~~uh
\   J I A  NG   X  I   $><_---t tsdngroo S  3 Chng.,n
H~~~~ UYngu B. Eezo Ionli,
J  7                    l.gjon       Anqingou         ,    r
;~~ngxiong   S  f   ,           ;  ('  %         '    .                               \~~~~~~~~ong
!   xJiono                            o., t  .<Jviion
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ln Yogxnt     p n
i~            , I& A N GHNS XlR
rrt v   +n Zhut pg                                                tN
*-- d--'J tU *Qi'gion        g       yn F uozhouo PPA
4           '^%     '\          \o>         honzhu>ibChongrenETE TWN
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z UY I A N                                                                        PROJECT 
4-  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N U, ZEIN , JIaNGX
Gnho o                                                                                              AND  FUIA            PROVINCES
c00,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gig                                                                      HNS  I
|~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SE KLIECTED TWN
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zaghu                                             hPALRAD
7.  1 ] 4. 164 1 1ER 2,00 t 22 !~~~~Xonn*



NATIONAL            H  AFFORESTATION PROJECTA
IONA  AFFORESTHUNAN   PROVINC E
a  XJE / J t<60 5 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHNESE FRR
'OM PINES
PCPIMAR
MISCELLANEOUS BROAD
LEAF SPECIES
-4'-RAILROADS    t
-4 ,RIVERS AND LAKCES
PROVtNCE BOUNDARIES
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 50   1 1
iG UA AO.G
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 #  r  1,  1,  t 



| YUNNAN pt, GUAtONG, X 'ib HUNA
2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1                        L                                                    q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA
GA   NGlIOAFFORESATION  JEC
I9 J<  u  -o  GDG>UANGS9WN
IBIH*                                                                 -     _VP
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEA                           o    Sstdg To
t   R   >   t   j                           @   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Soundn
\  /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ite rnf at_ Ponncs Boundane
|  ,        ........................   l |  4   f  NAN A          a       ,  =    w       g 9
a0
o                                        CHINAN2
P!OR2v20
OMAN                                                               -,



IIRD 22320
.34     t                  tA              G     A    N      S    U                                    CHINA           Xt
L                            _w. tNATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Q  I NGt_H   AI I Mw r - .                                                                   SICHUAN PROVINCE
CHINESE FIR
3 7   5                                   S \ >\~'v2ni - wJ>t, .$ ( < ) t}X)  S  8g MISCELLANEOUS BROADLEAF SPECIES
XIZAI,G                                                                  / t- R,  _   g  -     IVERS
1! ,-                                                                                PROVINCE CAPITA
;     '            sfl ,                  /                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
32.  $                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  32r
32'~~~~ 
XIZANG                                      KHU                                                                 E
2  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
is  YUNNAN   %                               0           190G   I 20H0    
~~~~~~~~~  /     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



