Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18130
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
(CR. 2145-CHA)
June 30, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
1989        $1 = Y4.72
1990        $1 = Y4.78
1991        $1 = Y5.32
1992        $1 = Y5.42
1993        $1 = Y5.73
1994        $1 = Y8.70
1995        $1 = Y8.40
1996        $1 = Y8.30
1997        $1 = Y8.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AE           Afforestation Entity
ABC          Agricultural Bank of China
CAF          Chinese Academy of Forestry
FDPA         Forestry Development in Poor Areas Project
FRDPP        Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
GEF          Global Environment Facility
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MFO          Ministry of Forestry (since May 1998, State Forestry Administration)
NAP          National Afforestation Project
PMC          Project Management Center (in MFO)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SDR          Special Drawing Right
SFA          State Forestry Administration
SFF          State Forest Farm
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Project Task Manager: Richard Scobey ICR Task Manager: Victoria Elliott



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT (CR. 2145-CHA)
CONTENTS
Preface .............................................                                               i
Evaluation Summary .............................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ..........................................  1
B. Objectives ..........................................  1
C. Achievement of Objectives .......................................... 3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .......................................... 7
E. Future Operation and Sustainability of the Project ................................. ......... 8
F. Bank Performance .......................................... 11
G. Borrower Performance  .......................................... 13
H. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................                           14
I. Key Lessons Learned .......................................... 14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Table 3: Project Timetable .18
Table 4    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .20
Table 8a:  Project Costs (in US dollars) .......................................... 20
Table 8b:  Project Costs (in Chinese Yuan) .............            ............................. 20
Table 8c:  Project Financing .......................................... 21
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................... 21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .......................................... 22
Table I1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..................................... 23
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................... 23
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                24
APPENDICES
A. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR  .......................................... 25
B.  ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire .......................................... 70
Maps: IBRD Maps 22268-22271, 22320
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT (CR. 2145-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the implementation completion report (ICR) for the National Afforestation Project
in China, for which Credit 2145-CHA in the amount of SDR 230 million ($300 million
equivalent) was approved on May 29, 1990 and made effective on August 20, 1990. The credit
was closed on December 6, 1997, one year after the date originally envisaged. The credit was
fully disbursed, with the last disbursement on December 6, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Victoria Elliott (Principal Economist, PRMEP), with assistance
from Norman Jones, John Tumbull and Tom Brummer (consultants) and Weiguo Zhou
(EASRD). It was reviewed by Richard Scobey (Task Manager and China Country Coordinator,
EASRD) and Geoffrey Fox (Manager, EASRD). The ICR mission took place in May 1998. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing a very detailed and thoughtful
Completion Report and annexes, which are included in this report, and commenting on the draft
ICR.



CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT (CR. 2145-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    Before the National Afforestation Project (NAP), IDA had financed two forestry projects
in China. The Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA), approved in 1985, supported
afforestation on state forest farms in three provinces and related research and extension activities.
The Da Xing An Ling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1918-C[A) was a 1988 emergency
operation to salvage the wood from trees killed in a massive fire, and to introduce improved fire
detection and control systems. Several lessons emerged from these projects. First, China's
forestry plantations were concentrated in the state sector, utilized traditional silvicultural and
management practices that contributed to relatively low productivity levels by international
standards, and were not supported by research targeted to operational needs. As a result, the
government's large investment in plantation development was not particularly efficient and not
redressing China's worsening deficit in wood supply. Second, the Ministry of Forestry's
effective implementation of the two projects, particularly Da Xing An Ling, demonstrated its
excellent institutional capacity and gave the Bank confidence that the government could plan and
implement a large nation-wide afforestation program.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    NAP, the largest forestry investment ever funded by the Bank Group, had the following
objectives:
1) To expand forest resources by assisting forest farms of various types to establish
intensively managed forest stands on 985,000 hectares in 15 (later 16) provinces;
2) To improve the quality of forest plantations through the use of superior planting stock
and by introducing and disseminating superior techniques of plantation establishment and
intensive management;
3) To strengthen the research and extension programs that support plantation forestry;
4) To initiate an accelerated tree breeding program to increase the productivity of planting
stock within 2 to 3 years; and
5) To create the organizational and managerial infrastructure to plan, appraise, finance,
implement and evaluate plantation programs on a permanent basis.



3.    Assessment of Objectives. The bulk of China's very limited wood supply was being
drawn from the unsustainable exploitation of natural forests prior to the project. The government
placed justifiably high priority on increasing timber production in a sustainable way, and the
project's goal of wood production fit with both the Government and Bank's development
strategies. The project design was relatively simple: a limited number of species were to be
grown following standard silvicultural models, under about six different institutional
arrangements. The market and price risks were managable, since plantations can produce wood
of different dimensions according to market conditions. The risks of pests or fire destroying the
plantations were minimized by incorporating suitable environmental guidelines into the project
design. There was a real risk that forestry entities would not increase productivity enough to
ensure good returns, but this was mitigated by the project financing arrangements, which
provided an incentive -- heretofore unknown in Chinese forestry -- to maximize per-hectare
returns.  The research component was pragmatic, focusing only on the project's major tree
species, and on the application of research completed but not yet applied. The plan for
accelerated production of improved planting material aimed at introducing on a wide scale
planting stock that was improved but not fully disseminated.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.    The project is likely to exceed its physical objectives and goals for technological
improvement. The re-estimated ERR is 23.5 percent and FRR is 21.7 percent, slightly above the
original SAR estimates. The project also has significant, though difficult to quantify,
environmental and institutional benefits. The project is likely to have an enduring impact on
commercial forestry, particularly the development of the non-state sector. Overall the project is
judged as highly satisfactory. Specific achievements are:
-  Plantation Establishment.  The total area planted was 1,385,000 hectares, well
above the SAR target of 985,000 hectares. The 40 per cent increase in the planting
area was made possible, by savings arising from the devaluation of the Chinese
currency against the SDR and lower unit planting costs.   The planning and
management systems that MFO put in place for NAP were able to prepare and
implement this huge afforestation program smoothly and seamlessly.  Project
plantations are expected to produce 234 million cubic meters of wood as against 137
million cubic meters at appraisal. Many new silvicultural techniques have been
developed, adopted, and disseminated in project and non-project areas.
*  Institutional. The project established an efficient administrative system within the
provincial and county forestry bureaus. Project-financed overseas training and study
tours accelerated the process of technology transfer. Thousands of county and
township extension workers received field training in NAP silviculture methods. The
project also stimulated new institutional linkages among forestry researchers,
extension staff, and farmers. It fostered the creation of new non-state commercial
forestry enterprises: of the 10,000 afforestation entities that participated in the
project, about 40% were structured as new shareholding entities.



- iv -
*  Environmental. Important environmental benefits will accrue from the project.
Land under NAP plantations will lose 60-70 percent less soil due to erosion than they
would have if left barren. Project plantations during their lifetimes are expected to
fix an estimated 722 million tones of Co2, equivalent to a one-quarter reduction in
China's annual emissions.  The environmental guidelines for forest plantations
developed under the NAP have extended new soil and water conservation and
biodiversity protection benefits to other govermnent and non-government forestry
investments.
*  Poverty Reduction.  Although no specific poverty alleviation objectives were
defined at appraisal, the project has had an important socio-economic impact in
remote poor areas. More than one-third of the project counties are classified as
below the poverty line, where the project investments have generated employment
and production income that will double household income over the medium-term,
and the project infrastructure has facilitated economic development.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
5.    The only exogenous factor that significantly affected the project's outcome was the
depreciation of the Chinese currency against the SDR. Because of the high share of local costs in
the project, this permitted the credit to finance the establishment of an additional 400,000
hectares. Crucial to the project's success was high-level political support. The Minister of
Forestry clearly signaled NAP's special status among MFO's hundreds of foreign and
domestically financed programs. Political support was also mobilized at the provincial and
county levels through the establishment of Leading Groups, which ensure the cooperation of
local officials in budgeting counterpart funds and making land available. The main project
manager, Qu Shuye, made a unique contribution to the project's success and forged an effective
collaborative relationship with the Bank. During the implementation period, China's newly
unleashed market forces coexisted with its traditional, tightly managed bureaucratic command
structure. For NAP, this provided an attractive incentive structure for wood production
combined with reliable implementation and careful management.
6.    The Bank's performance was good. It reacted positively and swiftly to the government's
initial proposal in early 1988. It resisted an early temptation to widen the project goals from
afforestation to broad sector reform, concluding that to do so would make the project too
complex for both the Bank and the MFO to implement successfully. This decision to focus
squarely on afforestation was a crucial factor for project success. There was unusual continuity
in staffing. From identification in 1988 through completion in 1998, NAP had only three task
managers, and the same two forestry specialists were continuously involved over the entire
period. Since MFO performed its management and supervision functions so effectively, Bank
supervision missions were able to focus on technical issues, particularly on accelerating the
adoption of improved silvicultural methods. The Bank also capitalized on the preparation of the
two follow-on projects to accelerate the dissemination of NAP research findings on planting
densities, fertilization and environmental monitoring.



v -
7.    The performance of MFO and the provincial and county forestry staff was highly
satisfactory at all stages of the project. MFO secured financial and political commitment from
the project provinces and delivered fully satisfactory technical preparation documents. All
covenants were complied with. The quality of physical implementation, financial management,
and overall planning and monitoring were consistently rated as highly satisfactory. The same
management team remained in place throughout the life of the project. The Chinese Academy of
Forestry seized the opportunities the project provided to demonstrate and operationalize its
research in a commercial context. It rapidly created the ten research working groups needed for
project purposes, and published hundreds of papers and training materials to disseminate NAP-
related research.
FUTURE OPERATION AND SUSTAINABILITY
8.    The NAP plantations are virtually certain to survive and generate economic and financial
returns as forecast. Project offices at the county, provincial and national levels remain in place
and are monitoring the tending, thinning, fire and pest prevention, and loan repayment activities
of the afforestation entities. Significant loss due to fires-or pests is unlikely, because measures
are in place to monitor and control these risks, and project sites are in widely dispersed locations.
However, the limited number of poplar and eucalyptus clones does present a marginally elevated
disease risk in those species. The silvicultural and management techniques developed in NAP
are now being adopted in many other plantation programs, projects and individual plantations. It
is impossible to quantify the extent of this, but it is certain that NAP's impact on national wood
production will be many times that of the project plantations alone.
9.    The project created high-impact linkages among forestry research, extension, and farmers
in ten subject areas. Although these relationships have been extended in the follow-on projects,
the institutional linkages remain quite uneven, depending more on personal relationships or
expedient financing arrangements than on sustainable incentives or structures. More broadly,
the forestry research agenda remains somewhat isolated from commercial and environmental
needs despite NAP's positive contributions.
10.   Continued liberalization and economic growth in China will be favorable to wood
markets and project production. In mid-1998, the government introduced a new ban on large-
scale commercial harvesting of natural forests. If this is enforced, it should increase the price of
plantation-grown wood. On the other hand, substitution of other materials (concrete for railway
ties, metal for windows), already occurring, could intensify. This makes it especially important
to strengthen research on wood properties and to improve the linkages between plantation
establishment and market needs. To ensure that investment funds continue to flow efficiently to
timber forestry in China, financing and taxation policies need to be made more attractive to
private investors (the maturity periods offered by commercial banks are too short for timber
investments, and forest products are highly taxed).



-vi-
KEY LESSONS
11.    Following are the key lessons of the NAP.
*  The borrower was in the driver's seat. The project was initiated by the highest level
of government and continued to enjoy strong political support throughout
implementation. It was therefore somewhat inoculated against the bureaucratic
obstacles that afflict other projects. The borrower's priorities were the bedrock of the
project, upon which the Bank's goals of technology and institutional modernization
were grafted.
*  Where institutional capacity is robust, an investment project can be treated as a
program or sector loan. NAP's massive geographic scope and widely dispersed
project sites meant that the Bank could never directly appraise or supervise a large
sample of the physical works. MFO's excellent institutional capacity for supervision
and management facilitated preparation ancf implementation, and allowed the Bank
to focus on the key issue of technology transfer.
*  A project with highly focused investment objectives can nonetheless generate a
broad sectoral impact. Although NAP's objectives were few and concrete, it served
as a platform for the Bank and Chinese authorities to open up a dialogue on a wide
range of forestry issues, including forest resource planning, natural forest
management, wood products marketing and pricing, environmental management and
poverty alleviation in remote areas. The dialogue initiated under NAP led to the
development of two follow-on projects with significant sectoral policy content.
NAP's simplicity of objectives, far from narrowing the sector dialogue, actually
widened it by establishing a successful relationship.
*  Further sectoral policy reform is needed to complete the transition to a market
economy. Despite China's rapid liberalization, decision-making and planning in the
forestry sector still do not fully reflect market principles. The people managing the
plantations need better tools -- and the freedom to use them -- for assessing market
conditions to guide their harvesting and replanting decisions.
* The project achieved a high impact from research that had already been done, but
did not address the broader constraints affecting future research. Although the
original objectives of the research component were appropriate, the Bank could have
leveraged the component's impact more effectively during supervision.
The linkage of financial control with technical standards was critical to project
success. If on-lending and disbursement had been transferred to a financial
intermediary, as originally envisioned, technology transfer and development impact
would have been significantly limited.



CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT (CR. 2145-CHA)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   BACKGROUND
1.    Before the National Afforesation Project (NAP), IDA had supported two projects with
the Ministry of Forestry (MFO). The Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA) had been
approved in 1985, when the Bank/China relationship was at an early stage. It financed
afforestation and stand improvement on State Forest Farms in three provinces; construction of
roads and wood processing facilities; and equipment and technical assistance to forest research
and extension centers. By the time the NAP was proposed, the Bank and the MFO had come to
realize that China's prevailing plantation forestry methods, including old-fashioned silvicultural
practices and reliance on State Forest Farms, could never fill China's worsening deficit in wood
products. In addition, it was clear that forestry research priorities were not being systematically
based on the potential for economic gains, and that economic analysis played a very limited role
in forestry planning.
2.    The Da Xing An Ling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1918-CHA) was an
emergency operation in 1988 to salvage the wood from trees killed in a massive fire, and to
introduce improved fire detection and control systems.  The salvage effort generated both
economic and financial rates of return of over 200 percent. Experience in preparing this project
strengthened the Bank's confidence in the MFO's implementation capacities, and helped MFO to
appreciate the value of international experience and expertise.
B.   OBJECTIVES
Statement of Objectives
3.    The main objectives of the project, as stated in the SAR of May 1990, were:
1) To expand forest resources by assisting forest farms of various types to establish
intensively managed forest stands on 985,000 hectares in 15 provinces;
2) To improve the quality of forest plantations through the use of superior planting stock
and by introducing and disseminating superior techniques of plantation establishment
and intensive management.
3) To strengthen the research and extension programs that support plantation forestry.
4) To initiate an accelerated tree breeding program to increase the productivity of
planting stock within 2 to 3 years.



-2 -
5) To create the organizational and managerial infrastructure to plan, appraise, finance,
implement and evaluate plantation programs on a permanent basis.
4.    These objectives remained unchanged during implementation. A sixteenth province was
added shortly after project approval. Improving the environmental management of plantations
emerged as an additional, separate goal during the early stages of implementation.
Evaluation of the Objectives
i) Consistency with Bank and Government Priorities
5.    Wood markets had already been liberalized and there was excess demand for all types of
wood for construction, mine pit props and consumer products. The bulk of China's very
inadequate wood supply was being drawn from the unsustainable exploitation of natural forests.
The government placed justifiably high priority on increasing timber production, in a sustainable
way, to keep pace with economic growth. The project's overall goal of wood production
addressed this priority.
6.    For the Bank, the project offered an opportunity to invest in a program with national
economic impact, and to operate on a long-desired sector-wide level instead of the province-by-
province approach that the government consigned to the Bank in agriculture.
ii) Plantation Program
7.    The plantation program's huge scale initially seemed awesome and risky. However, the
Ministry of Forestry had a track record of success in the Da Xing An Ling project. The forestry
administration at all levels was well established and accustomed to implementing large scale
programs. Indeed, since 1985 it had established 4 million hectares of "fast-growing high-
yielding" plantations, the largest production forest program in the world. The project design
was relatively simple: a limited number of species were to be grown following standard
silvicultural models, under about six different institutional arrangements.
8.    The market and price risks were managable, because wood is multi-purpose, and
plantations can be managed so as to produce products of different dimensions according to
market conditions. The risks of pests or fire destroying the plantations were minimized by
imposing suitable guidelines.
9.    Although the SAR foresaw "no major risks", there was, in retrospect, a risk that forestry
entities -- accustomed to command-style, low-productivity afforestation programs --- would not,
or could not, increase productivity enough to ensure good financial and economic returns. This
risk, as it turned out, was mitigated by the financing arrangements. First, the GOC's onlending
terms required the township or forest farm level implementing agencies to assume most of the
repayment obligation for the IDA credit. Second, the entities' share of financing was provided in
the form of labor and land, against a share of the final harvest. These two features provided an
incentive -- heretofore unknown in Chinese forestry -- to maximize per-hectare returns.



-3 -
iii) Technology Improvement
10.   Objectives 2, 3 and 4, which  relate to improved technology, were based on the
preparation missions' observations that China's prevailing  "fast-growing, high-yielding"
plantation program was delivering productivity far below international standards. The project
had the pragmatic goal of ensuring that NAP plantations immediately adopted modem
techniques that would deliver high returns. The research component focused only on the
project's major tree species, and on the application of research completed but not yet applied due
to the absence of effective linkages between research and extension. The plan for accelerated
production of improved planting material aimed at introducing -- on a wide scale -- planting
stock that was improved but not fully tested (instead of waiting the ten years or more necessary
to develop new genetic material).
11.   NAP did not tackle the broad range of scientific and institutional issues facing China's
forestry research and extension programs. Could it have had more far-reaching objectives?
Chinese forestry research is a massive endeavor, involving dozens of institutes and universities
under national, provincial and local jurisdiction. To rationalize and modernize this program
would take a concerted effort lasting decades, would not necessarily have borrower support and
would have conflicted with the project's production goals.  It was wise, therefore, to have
limited NAP's goals for research.
iv) Institutional Goals
12.   The project had secondary institutional goals aimed both at the structure of the industry
and at the MFO itself.  On the structural side, it aimed to foster the establishment of
commercially oriented, locally-run, timber enterprises.   State Forest Farms, which then
dominated plantation forestry, offered little potential for increased production or income gains
for poor farmers. Although the MFO was initially reluctant to move away from the low-risk and
familiar world of State Forest Farms, during preparation it was agreed that only 25 per cent of the
project support would go to SFFs. The project's financing and monitoring mechanisms were
designed to encourage high-productivity forestry in afforestation entities having a more arms'-
length relationship with the government.
13.   The government forestry administraton already functioned well at all levels. The project
aimed mainly to introduce new tools for planning, assessing and monitoring plantation activities.
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Plantation Establishment
14.   The physical objectives of the project were significantly exceeded.  The total area
planted was 1,385,000 hectares. This is equivalent to the total forested area of Kenya, or to the
annual forest loss in Indonesia -- a remarkable accomplishment in only four years. The
financing of the 40 per cent increase in the planting area was made possible by devaluation of the
Chinese currency against the SDR. The planning and management systems that MFO had put in



-4 -
place for NAP were able to prepare and implement this additional program smoothly and
seamlessly.
15.   The survival rates are over 90 per cent. Timber yields are projected to exceed by 10
percent to 20 percent the predicted yields at appraisal, which in turn were estimated to exceed
normal plantation growth by at least 10 percent. Overall, the project plantations are expected to
produce 234 million cubic meters of wood as against 137 million cubic meters at appraisal. Of
the added 97 million cubic meters, about 57 million is attributable to the increased planting area,
and 40 million ha to increased per-hectare productivity.
Technology Transfer
16.   Many new techniques were developed, adopted and promulgated in the selection,
establishment and maintenance of NAP plantations. The table below summarizes the major
technical differences between the "fast-growing high-yielding" program and the NAP, as well as
their impact on production, returns and environmental protection.
17.   Project afforestation entities were required to use these new techniques as a condition of
receiving project funds to reimburse their costs. Substandard stands either had to be replanted or
were not reimbursed.
Table 1: Technology Transfer in NAP
Old FGHY program            |NAP as appraised           |Impact
Planning
Little use of cost-benefit or rate  Investment based on species    Financed only highest return
of return analysis          rates of return              species and sites
Incomplete matching of species Species matched to site   Higher productivity
and sites                   conditions
Planting Material
Low use of superior seed    Source-identified seeds used    Permits species/site
wherever possible           matching
Minimal use of clonal material  6% of Chinese Fir, 100% of    Higher value through
poplar, 26% of eucalyptus   selection of desired plant
planted with clonal material    characteristics
Seedling quality low and    98% of seedlings used were   Higher volume and quality
unregulated                 Class 1                      of wood; fewer seedlings
per ha.
Silviculture
High planting densities     Reduced planting densities   Lower estab. costs, higher
(up to 4000 stems/ha)       (below 3000 stems/ha)        wood production per hectare



- 5 -
Limited fertilization         Scientifically based fertilizer    Lower establishment costs,
use                          less runoff
Intensive soil preparation    Little or no site clearing;   Lower establishment costs,
and/or large planting holes   smaller planting holes        less soil erosion
Planting up and down slope    Planting across contour       Less soil erosion
Management and Finance
Establishment financed by up-  Financed by on-lending of IDA  Incentive to maximize
front grants from different   credit and "sweat equity"     returns
levels of government
Automatic disbursement of     Disbursement of credit funds    All plantations meet quality
grants; ineffective quality   only after quality checked    standards
monitoring
Institutional
18.   The project established an efficient administrative system within the provincial and
county forestry bureaus. The links up and down the project management chain and across local
government entities (through the Leading Groups) have worked well. The PMC has introduced
constructive changes in the MFO's (formerly rather rigid) "corporate culture", including
intensified vertical and horizontal communications among administrative levels, franker
discussions, accountability for results, and delegation to younger staff.  The project financed
overseas training and study tours for about 80 individuals in forestry bureaus at all levels. Their
exposure to modern techniques has accelerated the process of technology transfer. Further
opening up of China's forestry sector was stimulated by language training for staff and the
publication of a specialized Chinese/English forestry glossary.
19.   At the local level, thousand of country and township extension workers received field
training in NAP silviculture methods. These workers are now disseminating these methods,
illustrated by NAP demonstration plantations, to all local farmers establishing timber stands.
The project also stimulated new institutional linkages between forestry researchers, extension
staff and plantation operators. The project supplied land for research trials and demonstrations,
in turn generating direct contacts among formerly unconnected people.
20.   NAP succeeded in fostering the development and creativity of new commercial forestry
enterprises: of the 10,000 afforestation entities that participated in the project, about 40% were
structured as new shareholding entities.
Environmental
21.   Important environrental benefits will accrue from  both the project plantations
themselves and the wider application of environmental guidelines developed in the project. The
borrower estimates that soils under NAP plantations will retain about 10-15 per cent more soil



-6-
moisture, and lose 60-70 percent less soil due to erosion, than they would have if left barren.
Moreover, the project plantations during their lifetimes would fix an estimated 722 million tons
of C02, equivalent to a one-quarter reduction in China's annual C02 emissions.  The
environmental guidelines for forest plantations developed under the NAP will extend the soil and
water conservation and biodiversity protection benefits to other government and private financed
plantations.
Poverty Reduction
22.   Although no specific poverty alleviation objectives were defined at appraisal, NAP was
expected to disproportionately improve incomes in poorer communities, since forest plantations
are typically in remote hilly areas. One third of the 316 NAP participating counties with NAP
plantations are classified as "poverty" counties under national or provincial guidelines.
23.   At completion, it appears that the project has helped reduce poverty in several ways.
First, it created more than one million person-years of paid employment for plantation
establishment and initial tending. Additional jobs will be created when plantations are thinned
and harvested. Project wages have tended to lag behind prevailing urban wage levels, so these
jobs are typically done by men and women with the fewest other income opportunities.
24.   Second, individual farmers and local communities will earn a share of the revenue from
thinning and final harvest. Some 72 per cent of project plantations are being implemented by
collective, township or county shareholding entities (as distinct from State Forest Farms).
Farmers will receive between 20 and 80 per cent of the after-tax wood revenues, depending on
whether the plantations are on individual or collective land. The townships' shares would
typically be used for local infrastructure improvements. As for the 22 per cent of the project
accounted for by State Forest Farms, more than half of this amount will be jointly developed
with local farmers from whom the SFF leases land.
25.   The farmers will typically get 30 per cent of the pre-tax revenues.   Although the
farmers' shares appear modest, it must be remembered that the hilly land used for plantations
has a low opportunity cost, and also that the farmers' labor is directly compensated by wages.
26.   The borrower's contribution to the ICR includes an illustrative snapshot of the NAP's
benefits to a typical country.
27.   Because of timber plantations' long rotation period, an afforestation entity needs another
source of income to survive and to finance the establishment costs during the growing period.
Virtually all NAP participants have other plantations and/or small agro-processing or aquaculture
activities that generate income and permit them to repay the loan. The most destitute families or
townships, therefore, cannot participate in timber investments. The Bank's follow-on project,
Forestry Development in Poor Areas (approved in May 1998), aims at developing fruit, nut and
other non-timber trees that provide early cash flow and are therefore more suited to poor areas.



-7-
Rates of Return and NPV
28.   The rates of return and NPV at appraisal and completion are summarized in the following
table and given in more detail in Annex Table 9.
Table 2: Rates of Return and NPV
Economic Rate of Return  j Financial Rate of Return         NPV 
Appraisal  I Completion  Appraisal   Completion I Appraisal   Completion
22.8 %      23.5 %      1 19.3 %      21.7 %       3.6 billion Y  9.1 billion Y
29.   The ERRs and FRRs at completion are slighly higher than at appraisal, reflecting the area
and productivity increases. Overall, there are differences among species. Returns to Chinese fir
and pine species are estimated about 3.5 percentage points higher than at appraisal because the
improved planting material program has been implemented more quickly, and has generated
better growth improvements, than anticipated. Estimated returns to eucalyptus are lower than
expected at appraisal because different varieties were used. The large increase in the estimated
NPV is attributable mainly to the increase in planted area, and secondarily to the increase in
productivity and the decrease in establishment costs.
30.   The estimated returns are sensitive to assumptions about the stands' age at final harvest.
Large dimension timber is always more valuable per cubic meter than small dimension wood, but
the size of the premium varies over time depending on wood utilization patterns in the
marketplace. To optimize returns from a stand, harvesting time should be determined by
considering physical growth curves in combination with wood prices and replanting options.
The NAP local officials and afforestation entities need, but do not yet have, simple methods to
make these calculations.
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Exogenous
31.   The only exogenous factor that significantly affected the project's outcome was the
depreciation of the Chinese currency against the SDR. Because of the high share of local costs in
the project, this permitted the credit to finance the establishment of an additional 400,000
hectares.
32.   World and domestic prices of forest products declined slightly in real terms during the
project period. Wages increased in real terms, but this cost increase was more than offset by
reduced use of labor and other inputs for site preparation, planting and fertilizing.
Factors within Government Control
33.   Crucial to the project's success was consistent, high-level political support. The State
Council had endorsed the proposal even before it was put to the Bank. The Minister of Forestry



- 8 -
demonstrated the project's importance, by, for example, personally chairing the Project Leading
Group, and meeting with Bank missions. Such Ministerial attention is unusual in China and
clearly signaled NAP's special status among MFO's hundreds of foreign and domestically
financed programs.
34.   Political support was also mobilized at the provincial and county levels through the
establishment of Leading Groups. These groups (akin to steering committees or advisory boards)
involve local officials, local branches of Ministry of Finance and the Agricultural Bank of China.
They serve as a mechanism to ensure the cooperation of local officials in budgeting counterpart
funds, making land available, etc. and proved to be instrumental in ensuring the adequacy of
counterpart funds.
35.   The Minister's selection of an outstanding project manager (Qu Shuye, who had been the
Director of the Silviculture Department) turned out to be a major contributor to the project's
success. He combined a broad vision of a modernized forestry sector with meticulous
monitoring of plantation standards and a knack for recruiting able staff.
36.   During the implementation period, China's newly unleashed market forces coexisted with
its traditional, tightly managed bureaucratic command structure. For NAP, this provided an
attractive incentive structure for wood production combined with reliable implementation of
decisions and directives. At the same time, prevailing forestry practices, deeply rooted in the
command economy, proved slow to change. (For example, planting sites and holes were
prepared with excessive care and cost, because plantation managers were rewarded and penalized
on the basis of total plant survival, not cost-effectiveness.) There remains a reliance on directives
in preference to market signals.
Project Elements
37.   The project , like most in China's agriculture sector financed little foreign technical
assistance. Instead, Bank preparation and supervision missions were expected to -- and did --
include world class forestry experts, whom the Chinese used effectively as consultants to their
program.  The International Advisory Panel on Research was the only significant foreign
technical assistance. The recommendations of its two missions were not effectively incorporated
into the project research program, or pursued by Bank supervision missions.
38.   Two project requirements -- an annual survey of wood prices and the preparation of
comprehensive forest resource management plans for all the participating province -- did not
have a direct impact on the implementation of NAP or the design of follow-on projects, but they
did help to deepen the MFO's capacities and experience in these relatively unfamiliar areas.
E.   FUTURE OPERATION AND SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
39.   Afforestation projects are unusual because significant returns don't accrue until at least
seven, and as much as twenty, years after the investment is made. Longer term systemic



- 9 -
changes, likewise, bear fruit only gradually, as new generations of forests are established. In
NAP, therefore, sustainability has two dimensions:
*  the future of the project plantations themselves, to be harvested between 1997 and
2014, depending on species, and
*  the adoption of the technical, institutional and intellectual improvements generated
by the project in other plantation activities.
Project Plantations
40.   The NAP plantations are virtually certain to survive and generate economic and financial
returns as forecast. Project offices at the county, provincial and national levels remain in place
and are monitoring the tending, thinning, fire and pest prevention and loan repayment activities
of the afforestation entities. Leading Groups also remain in place and will in particular ensure
repayment of the IDA credit and government financing.
41.   Significant loss due to fires or pests is unlikely, because measures are in place to monitor
and control these risks, and because project sites are in widely dispersed locations. However, the
limited number of poplar and eucalyptus clones in use does present a marginally elevated disease
risk in those species.
42.   Some changes in stand management between now and final harvest could help to
maximize total returns. In particular:
*  Thinning to lower densities, especially of the earliest-planted stands, would produce
higher total wood production by reducing inter-tree competition.
*  Improved tree growth rates should lead to a corresponding decrease in planned
rotation age.
*  The timing of final harvest should -- rather than remaining as prescribed in the
afforestation models -- be a management decision based on actual growth and wood
properties, market prices, interest rates and opportunity costs of the land. The PMC
should develop some simple models incorporating these variables to help provincial
and county foresters make these decisions.
Afforestation Program Generally
i) Technical Aspects
43.   The silvicultural and management techniques developed in NAP are now being adopted
in many other plantation programs, projects and individual plantations. It is impossible to
quantify the extent of this, but it is certain that NAP's impact on national wood production will



- 10-
be many times that of the project plantations alone. Following are examples of national and local
programs that have adopted NAP technologies:
Table 3: Adopting of NAP Technologies
Program                               Location
Chinese National Plantation Technical Guidelines, 1997   National
Forest Resource Development and Production Project    725,000 ha. in 17 provinces
(IDA)                                                                      l
FDPA (IDA/IBRD)                                  315,000 ha. in 12 provinces
Community Forestry Project (New Zealand sponsored)   2,500 ha. in Fujian
Three Gorges Afforestation Project (MFO)
110 State Forest Farms in Fujian Province        14,600 ha.
Adoption of NAP-style local financing for plantations    Guizhou province
ii) Institutional Aspects
44.   The project successfully challenged the MFO and its provincial and country level offices
to fortify their already solid implementation capabilities.
45.   The project created high-impact linkages between forestry research, extension and
commercial plantations in 10 subject areas. Although these relationships have been extended in
the FRDPP, they may not all survive when FRDPP funding ends, nor is there evidence that they
have been adopted by research groups in other areas. The institutional linkages remain quite
uneven, depending more on personal relationships or expedient financing arrangements than on
in-built incentives or structures. More broadly, the forestry research agenda remains fragmented
and somewhat isolated from commercial and environmental needs despite NAP's positive
contributions.
iii) Markets and Policy Environment
46.   Continued liberalization and economic growth in China will be favorable to wood
markets. In mid 1998, the Chinese government began to phase in a ban on large-scale
commercial harvesting of natural forests. If this is fully implemented and enforced, it should
increase the price of plantation-grown wood. On the other hand, substitution of other materials
(concrete for railway ties, metal for windows), already occurring, could intensify. This makes it
especially important to strengthen research on wood properties and to improve the linkages
between plantation establishment and market needs.
47.   Financial intermediation poses a challenge, as it does throughout the economy. To ensure
that investment funds continue to flow to timber forestry in China, financing and taxation
regimes need to be made more attractive to investors. Available government and ABC financing
carries low interest rates, but maturities that are too short for most timber crops. Moreover,



forest products are highly taxed: taxes and fees typically take about 30 percent of gross
revenues. A policy paper and action plan to improve the incentive and financing structure for
investment in plantation forestry would be a useful contribution if it could be informed by NAP
experience and analytical methods, and be linked to the Bank Group's ongoing sector work on
rural and micro-credit issues.
Follow-on Projects
48.   NAP has been followed directly by two Bank Group-supported national forestry projects.
The Forest Resource Development and Protection Project (FRDPP) was approved in 1994 and is
being implemented satisfactorily in its seventeen provinces. It replicates and builds on NAP's
technology improvements for commercial plantations, but also broadens out into the
establishment of watershed protection forests and strengthening of sector-wide planning and
management capacities.
49.   The more recent Forest Development in Poor Areas Project (FDPA), approved in May
1998, moves away from commercial timber plantations, which are best implemented in areas
with well established institutions and reasonable growing conditions, toward forestry activities
suited to poor households in remote mountainous areas. It relies on the proven capacities of the
State Forestry Agency (formerly the MFO) and its local units, but unlike NAP and FRDPP, its
design drew extensively on beneficiary participation.
F.   BANK PERFORMANCE
50.   The Bank's performance was characterized by responsiveness, continuity and a consistent
focus on technical improvement.
Responsiveness:
51.   The Bank reacted positively to the government's initial proposal in early 1988, and sent
an identification mission in September 1988. The project offered an opportunity to work on a
national, sector-wide scale, unlike the single-province, multi-activity agricultural development
projects that the Chinese authorities preferred the Bank to finance.
52.  Initially, some in the Bank proposed to widen the project goals from afforestation to
broad sector reform. It was decided, however, that to do so would lengthen the preparation
period; not respond to the borrower's priorities, and make the project too complex for both the
Bank and the MFO to implement successfully. This decision to focus squarely on afforestation
and its supporting activities was a crucial factor for project success.
53.   After identification, the Bank had planned to engage a firm of forestry consultants to
prepare the project. But the MFO insisted on taking full responsibility for preparation. They
agreed to use consultants only for particular aspects -- the economic and financial analysis and
on-lending arrangements -- where their own expertise was inadequate. MFO then submitted a
"model" preparation document for one province. After reviewing it, the Bank agreed to the



- 12 -
MFO's proposal. This somewhat risky decision proved to be sound, because it stimulated the
creation of project teams in every county and "ownership" of the project throughout
implementation. The Bank did engage consultants to review and refine the MFO work after it
was completed; this resulted in a few modifications to project design.
Continuity
54.   From identification in 1988 through completion in 1998, NAP had only three task
managers. In addition, the same two forestry specialists each participated in preparation,
appraisal and most supervision missions. This unusual continuity in the Bank's project team
allowed missions to work efficiently despite the project's geographic scale; fostered personal
relationships (which are important in China), and permitted targeted use of expert consultants.
The borrower has particularly praised the continuous supervision of the accelerated planting
material development program by its designer, Norman Jones, after whom it is named.
Consistency of Focus
55.   During implementation, the MFO's management systems ensured that plantation
establishment (and the concomitant monitoring, procurement, reporting and financial activities)
proceeded smoothly. This permitted Bank supervision to focus consistently on technical issues.
During project design some compromises had to be made because the borrower had resisted
introducing a number of the technologies known to be effective elsewhere in the world. During
supervisions it was possible to make adjustments, to seize on opportunities for faster
modernization.
56.   Major technical issues emphasized by successive missions included:
.  insistence on use of selected planting material
*  better nursery practices to improve the quality of seedlings
*  increasing the number of eucalyptus and poplar clones in use
*  proper staff training in pesticide use
*  planting on the contour and other environmental measures
*  decreasing planting densities
57.   The Bank also capitalized on the preparation of the follow-on FRDPP project, to
accelerate the dissemination of NAP research findings on planting densities, fertilization and
environmental monitoring.
58.   As for the research and extension component (which accounted for only 2 per cent of
total project costs) Bank supervision missions ensured that it was being implemented as
appraised, but did not attempt to use it as a vehicle for a broader dialogue about the
modernization of forestry research. It also did not effectively pursue implementation of the two
technical reports of the International Advisory Panel on research issues.



- 13 -
G.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Ministry of Forestry and Chinese Academy of Forestry
59.   The performance of the staff at PMC and the provincial, prefecture, muncipal, county,
and township forestry offices was highly satisfactory at all stages of the project. At the
preparation and appraisal stage, PMC effectively secured financial and political commitment
from the project provinces. PMC and the provinces delivered fully satisfactory technical
preparation documents that appropriately incorporated the recommendations of Bank missions
and the preparation consultants.
60.   During implementation, all covenants were complied with. The quality of physical
implementation, financial management and overall planning and adaptation was consistently
rated as highly satisfactory -- an impressive achievement considering that more than 1,000
project staff were involved in 16 provinces. The same management team remained in place
throughout the life of the project in PMC and most of the provinces. They developed smooth
procedures for monitoring the work of the project afforestation entities. The project management
offices facilitated Bank supervision by arranging field visits to remote areas and providing data
and timely reports in English. Again, much of this credit is due to the dynamic project manager,
Qu Shuye, and his two successors.
61.   The Chinese Academy of Forestry seized the opportunities the project provided to
demonstrate and operationalize its research in a commercial context. It rapidly created the 10
research working groups needed for project purposes and participated in the establishment of
demonstration and pilot plantations. It has published hundreds of pamphlets, papers and
monographs to disseminate NAP-related research, which will make an important contribution to
raising silvicultural productivity throughout China.
Other Agencies
62.   At the time of project approval, the MFO entered into an agreement with the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). ABC was to monitor the progress of afforestation entities'
work, disburse project funds and ensure that the beneficiaries maintain reliable accounts, in
consideration of a service fee of 0.3 percent. During the project's first year, though, it became
clear that the ABC local branches could not do this work effectively, and MFO decided that the
afforestation entities would simply maintain ordinary accounts in ABC branches. Technical
advice and oversight of the accounts was instead provided by the Provincial and county level
offices of the State Audit Administration, which provided a professional and independent service
during implementation.
63.   MFO engaged the China Instruments Import/Export Company to handle the
international procurement for the project. Despite some initial problems following the Bank's
standard bidding documents, its overall performance was satisfactory and it has subsequently
been prequalified to handle procurement under the FDPA.



- 14-
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
64.   The project is likely to exceed its physical objectives and meet or exceed its goals for
technological improvement, as described above. Its re-estimated economic and financial rates of
return exceed those estimated at appraisal; it also has large, though difficult to quantify,
environmental and institutional benefits. The project is likely to have an enduring impact on the
development of commercial forestry, as described above. Overall the project is judged as highly
satisfactory.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
65.   The borrower was in the driver's seat. The project was initiated by the highest level of
government and continued to enjoy strong political support throughout implementation. It was
therefore somewhat inoculated against the bureaucratic obstacles that afflict some other projects.
Moreover, because marketing and pricing in the forest sector had been substantially liberalized at
the time of preparation, the Bank did not need to use the project to advance sectoral reform. The
borrower's priorities were the bedrock of the project, upon which the Bank's goals of technology
and institutional modernization were built.
65.   Where institutional capacity is robust, an investment project can be treated as a program
or sector loan. NAP's massive geographic scope and widely dispersed project sites meant that
the Bank could never directly supervise a large sample of the physical works. At appraisal and in
early supervisions, it became clear that project management had created reliable monitoring and
control systems.  This good institutional capacity pennitted the project not only to be
implemented successfully, but also to be expanded by 40 percent in mid-implementation.
67.   A project with highly focused objectives can nonetheless generate a broad sector
relationship. Although NAP's objectives were few and concrete, it served as a platform for the
Bank and Chinese authorities to open up a dialogue on a wide range of forestry issues, including
forest resource planning, natural forest management, wood products marketing and pricing,
environmental management and poverty alleviation in remote areas. This dialogue has resulted
in two follow-on projects.  NAP's simplicity of objectives, far from narrowing the sector
dialogue, actually widened it by establishing a successful relationship.
68.   Despite China's rapid liberalization, decision-making and planning in the forestry sector
still do not fully reflect market principles. The people managing the plantations need better tools
-- and the freedom to use them -- for assessing market conditions to guide their harvesting and
replanting decisions. This could increase the project's financial returns and thereby create more
incentive for future financing in the sector.
69.   The project achieved a high impact from research that had already been done, but did
not address the broader constraints affecting future research. Although the original objectives
of the research component were appropriate, the Bank could have leveraged the component's
impact more effectively during supervision (as was done in the rest of the project). To do so, the



- 15 -
Bank could have perhaps spent resources on distinguished research consultants to help
implement the recommendations of the project-financed International Advisory Panel.
70.   The linkage offinancial control with technical standards was critical to project-success.
If control of on-lending and disbursement had been in the hands of a purely financial institution,
such as ABC, the technology transfer would have been significantly limited.



-16-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             X
Sector policies                         X
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development               X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                     X
Gender issues                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management                X
Private sector development              X
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely            Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                               X
Preparation assistance                       X
Appraisal                                    X
Supervision                                  X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                X
Implementation                             X
Covenant compliance                        X
Operation (if applicable)                  X
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
x



- 17-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose               Approval         Status
1. Forestry Development Project (Cr. Support establishment of 118,000  FY85    Coleted
1605-CHA)                       hectares of new plantations, tending           omple
of 166,000 hectares of existing
plantations in three provinces and
plantation infrastructure, provincial
forestry research institutes, county
extension stations and several wood
processing factories.
2. Daxinganling Forest Fire     Salvage burned timber and establish a    FY88    Completed
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1918-  comprehensive fire protection system
CHA)                            in Northeast China
3. Forest Resource Development and Support dissemination of the NAP  FY94    Under
Protection Project (Cr. 2623-CHA)   plantation program to another            Implementation
620,000 hectares in 16 provinces and
establishment of improved models for
watershed management on 280,000
hectares of protection forests.
4. Nature Reserves Management   Promote improved management of      FY95    Under
Project (GEF)                   biodiversity resources and natural            Inplementation
forests.
5. Changing Institutional Roles in the Strengthen institutional framework  FY96   Completed
Forestry Sector (IDF)           for private sector investment, SFA's
regulatory role, and public sector
management of environmental forests
6. Forestry Development in Poor  Develop forest resources in poor    FY98   Board approved on
Areas project                   areas of central and western China on
a sustainable and participatory basis        May 21, 1998
to support poverty reduction, forestry
development and improved
environmental management.



- 18 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned             Date actual
Identification                                            na                    10/02/88
Preparation                                              03/89                 03/19/89
Preappraisal                                             10/89                  10/29/89
Appraisal                                                02/90                 02/15/90
Negotiations                                           04/23/90                05/04/90
Board presentation                                     06/05/90                05/29/90
Signing                                                  06/90                 06/20/90
Effectiveness                                            08/90                 09/24/90
Project completion                                      12/31/96                12/06/97
Loan closing                                            12/31/97                12/06/97
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate             40.0    100.0    175.0    235.0    275.0    290.0    300.0
Actual/a                       43.4      91.7    136.1    208.3    261.4    311.1         328.4
Actual as % of adjusted estimate   108.5  91.7     77.8      88.6      95.1     107.3    109.5
Date of final disbursement  December 6, 1997
/a Higher actual disbursement in US dollar terms than appraisal estimate is due to depreciation of US dollar against
SDR.



- 19-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated          Estimated
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                     at Appraisal         at ICR
(------ -    O  ha.----     )
Plantation Area                                                985.0           1,385.0
Chinese Fir                                                    341.8             538.4
Masson Pine                                                     85.9             164.8
Slash Pine                                                      71.8             214.3
Larch                                                          176.0              96.5
Chinese White Poplar                                             na               56.6
Black Locust                                                     na               21.6
Other Broadleaf Trees                                           36.2              72.7
Italian Poplar                                                 191.4             117.5
Eucalyptus                                                      59.5              89.0
Paulownia                                                       20.0              13.7
Black Wattle                                                     2.0               0.0
(- ----  '000 m3-----------)
Total Output (volume)                                        136,869           233,915
Chinese Fir                                                   54,786           101,589
Masson Pine                                                   10,790            30,328
Slash Pine                                                     9,166            41,559
Larch                                                         25,659            14,907
Chinese White Poplar                                             na              7,059
Black Locust                                                     na              1,466
Other Broadleaf Trees                                          9,628             9,076
Italian Poplar                                                17,991            19,167
Eucalyptus                                                     5,943             6,851
Paulownia                                                      2,795             1,913
Black Wattle                                                    111
(-----------'000 ton----------)
Fuelwood                                                      25,032            19,052
Resin                                                           266                443
(-------------'000 yuan---------)
Total Output (value in 1990 constant prices)              50,612,824        71,633,456
Chinese Fir                                               26,343,047        38,940,963
Masson Pine                                                3,531,236         7,970,959
Slash Pine                                                 2,978,903         10,515,674
Larch                                                      8,210,893         3,585,258
Chinese White Poplar                                             na          2,102,924
Other Broadleaf Trees                                      2,888,465         2,206,315
Italian Poplar                                             3,674,919         3,093,661
Eucalyptus                                                 1,307,460          1.248,880
Paulownia                                                    698,850           364,961
Black Wattle                                                  24,323
Fuelwood                                                     742,328           726,975
Resin                                                        212,400           519,372
Incremental Employment
During Implementation Period (person.year)                   680,000          1,100,000
During Plantation Lifetime (person.year)              Over 7,000,000         7,252,000
Training and Consultant Services
Center, Provincial, County Training Courses (person/time)        na            228,500
Farmer's On-spot Training (person/time)                          na            780,000
Consultant Services (person/day)                                 na              4,348



- 20 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
(Not Applicable)
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study               Purpose as defined at          Status          Impact of Study
AppraisallRedefmed
Forestry Resources      To begin planning the        Completed            Strengthened
Management Plan for each  sustainable conservation and                    MFO's capabilities
project province        utilization of, and future                        and breath of
investments in, forests of all                    expertise, and
types.                                            provided
background
information for
preparation of
follow-on project.
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Yuan million)
Component                   Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Afforestation                       2,303.3    336.9   2640.2  3,302.0   395.4    3,697.4
Research and Pilot Plantations         38.5      10.7     49.2      46.7    22.9       69.6
Accelerated Planting Material Dev.      7.5       7.3      14.8      5.3     2.0        7.3
Information System                      8.7       1.9      10.6      2.0     0.7        2.7
Total                               2,358.0    356.8   2714.8  3,356.0   421.0   3,777.0
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Component                   Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Afforestation                         422.8      63.1    485.9    490.1    58.7       548.8
Research and Pilot Plantations          7.0       2.0      9.0       6.7     3.3       10.0
Accelerated Planting Material Dev.      1.4       1.3       2.7      0.7     0.3        1.0
Information System                      1.7       0.3       2.0      0.3     0.1        0.4
Total                                 432.9      66.7    499.6    497.8    62.4       560.2



-21 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Source                   Appraisal estimate             Actual/late estimate
Local    Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                              233.3       66.7    300.0        266.0      62.4   328.4
Provincial govermment             50.0                 50.0        56.8               56.8
Prefecture/municipality government  15.0               15.0        12.0               12.0
County government                 60.0                 60.0        50.4               50.4
Afforestation entity              74.6                 74.6       112.6              112.6
Total                            432.9       66.7    499.6        497.8      62.4   560.2
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal Estimate            ICR Estimate
Species                              FRR       ERR    NPV       FRR       ERR      NPV
(%/6)    (N)    (Y M)      (%)      (/)     (Y M)
Chinese Fir (Site 18)                 20.0      20.6    391.9     23.6    25.4   1,372.2
Chinese Fir (Site 16)                 18.2      18.6    486.7     21.4    23.2    1,873.0
Chinese Fir (Site 14)                 16.5      16.8    312.2    20.0    21.7    1,496.6
Masson Pine and Yunnan Pine (Site 18)  15.2     16.9     44.7     19.3    20.9      358.5
Masson Pine and Yunnan Pine (Site 16)  16.0     18.1    127.5     18.1    19.7     449.4
Exotic Pine (Site 18)/a               16.1      17.6     27.2    20.5    22.3       563.8
Exotic Pine (Site 16)/a               17.2      17.7    102.5    20.9    23.0       849.0
Larch                                 13.9      14.3    138.7     16.7    18.0      283.9
Broadleaf Trees/b                     21.5      25.0    516.4     19.0    19.9      520.8
Italian Poplar (Site V)               26.1      24.5    180.0    29.1    29.5       411.5
Italian Poplar and Albezzia (Site II)  32.8     49.8    666.7     36.0    39.9      367.5
Eucalyptus/c                          43.2      52.6    505.4     35.1    39.5      458.0
Paulownia                             30.8      39.4    170.8     34.4    38.6      130.9
Black Wattle                          30.4      39.7      7.2
Total Project                         19.3      22.8  3,643.6     21.7    23.5   9,081.1
Note:
/a Includes Slash, Loblolly and Caribbean Pine.
/b Based on White Poplar at appraisal and White Poplar, Black Locust and Siberian Elm at ICR.
/c Different Eucalyptus variety at appraisal and ICR.



- 22 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original    Revised
Agree-                      nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment        Section        type    Status      date        date         Description of covenant           Comments
DCA        3.01 (b)          05        C                             Execute and maintain Project
Implementation Agreement with
each Province
DCA       3.02               13        C                             Procurement in accordance with
DCA Schedule 3.
DCA       3.03               05        C                             Maintain central project office
with adequate staffing and
functions.
DCA       3.04               06       CP                             Presticide procurement and use in   MFO submitted a revised
accordance with IDA guidelines.   list of pesticides for use in
project in March 1995 that
was approved by the Bank
in April 1995. Some
farmers purchased small
amounts of pesticides on
their own.
DCA       4.01 (b)           01        C        06/30                Submit audit reports within six
annually              months of year end.
DCA        Schedule 5 I(b)    12       C      06/30/91               Submit Forest Resource
Management Plans for three
provinces.
DCA        Schedule 5 1(c)    12       C      12/31/91               Submit Forest Resource
Management Plans for all project
provinces.
DCA        Schedule 5 2(a)   09        C        12/31                Submit annual work and
annually              financing plan by December 31 of
each year.
DCA        Schedule 5 2(b)   09        C      03/31 and              Submit semi-annual progress
09/30                reports on March 31 and
annually              September 30 of each year.
DCA        Schedule 5 3(a)   05        C                             Establish and maintain Central
Research Groups within CAF.
DCA       Schedule 5 3(b)     12       C                             Carry out acceptable research
programs.
DCA       Schedule 5 3(c)    09        C        12/31                Submit annual report on research
annually              program by December 31 of each
year.
DCA       Schedule 5 4(a)     12       C                             Cany out acceptable program for
production of planting materials.
DCA       Schedule 54(b)     09        C        12/31                Submit annual report on planting
annually              materials program by December
31 of each year.
DCA        Schedule 5 5       12       C        09130                Submit annual report on timber
annually              prices by September 30 of each
year.
DCA        Schedule 5 6(a)    13       C       11/01/90              Submit plan for pilot plantations.
DCA        Schedule 5 6(b)    13       C       11/01/90              Submit plan for afforesting
330,000 hectares.
Covenant Class:                                                                  Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not          CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9             NC  = not complied
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy!
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 23 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
The project complied with all applicable Bank policies, including OD 4.36 regarding Bank Group involvement in
the forestry sector, as reviewed below. The project objectives fit into the overall sectoral objectives spelled out in
OD to reduce deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forests, promote afforestation, and
encourage economic development. The policy framework in China satisfies the required conditions for government
commitment for sustainable management and conservation-oriented forestry set out in the OD. The project
supported no harvesting, resettlement, or environmentally damaging activities.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                      Planned           Revised            Actual /a
Project Cycle               Weeks    $'000    Weeks   $'000   Weeks    $'000
Preparation to Appraisal                       na  na             na  na        187.6      496.5
Appraisal                                      na  na             na  na         15.6        37.9
Negotiations through Board Approval            na  na             na  na          6.2        18.5
Supervision                                   na  na              na  na        122.4      770.2
Completion                                     na  na             na  na         17.0       27.5
TOTAL                                         na  na             na  na        348.8     1,350.6
/a Including inputs of both Bank staff and consultants.



- 24 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff   Imple-       Devel-
Stage of project cycle  Month/   Number of   Days   skills represented /a   mentation      opment      Type of
year     persons    in field                       status /b    objectives   problems
Ic
Identification              10/88        5         24      EC/FS(2)/MS/ IDS
Preparation                 03/89        7         27      EC/FS(2)/IDS/SC/
MIS/RS
Preappraisal                10/89        10        22      EC/FS(4)/ECO/SN
S/IDS/MS/SCS
Appraisal                   02/90        4          14       EC/FS(2)/ECO
Negotiation                 05/90        5                   EC/FS/LW/DS
Board approval              05/90
Signing                     06/90
Effective                   09/90
Supervision 1               11/90        4          17       EC/FS(2)/ECO           I            1          El
Supervision 2               04/91        2          8           EC/ECO              I            I
Supervision 3               07/91        4         22        ECO/EC/FS(3)           I            I
Supervision 4               04/92        7         31       EC(2)/FS(4)/ECO         I            I          PM
Supervision 5               12/92        4         20        EC/ECO/FS(2)           1            I        PM/El
Supervision 6               12/93        3         24          EC/FS(2)             I            I        PM/El
Supervision 7               08/94        3          10        EC/ECO/FS           HS            HS        PLP/ER
Supervision 8               08/95        4                  EC/ECO/FS/IDS         HS            HS        SM/ER
Supervision 9               06/96        3                    EC/ECO/FS            HS           HS        SM/ER
Supervision 10              05/97        4          7       EC/ECO/FS/IDS         HS            HS
Completion                  05/98        4          18       EC/FA/FS/RS           HS           HS
/a DS: Disbursement Specialist; EC: Economist; ECO: Ecologist; FA: Financial Analyst; FS: Forest Specialist; IDS: Institutional Development
Specialist; LW: Lawyer; MIS: Information Specialist; MS: Marketing Specialist; RS: Research Specialist; SC: Silviculturist; SCS: Soil
Conservation Specialist; SNS: Seed Nursery Specialist.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; S: Satisfactory;
/c El: Enviromental Issues; ER: Extension of New Research Findings; PLP: Plantation Program; PM: Planting Material; SM: Stand
Management;



-25 -
ANNEX A: BORROWERS CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
National Afforestation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Prepared by:
World Bank Loan Project Management Center,
State Forestry Administration, China
May, 1998



- 26 -
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AFIPD        Academy of Forestry Inventory, Planning and Design
CAF          Chinese Academy of Forestry Sciences
CRG          central research group
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DFRFP        Department of Forestry Resources and Forestry Policy
DST          Department of Science and Technology
DWFPC        Department of Wildlife and Forest Plants Conservation
FGHY         fast growing and high yielding plantation
EP           environmental protection
EPG          environmental protection guidelines
FIRR         financial internal return rate
FRDPP        Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
GASS&SFF  General Administration of Tree Seeds, Seedlings and State Forest Farm
IBRD         International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICB          international competitive bidding
IDA          International Development Association
LICB         limited international competitive bidding
MFO          Ministry of Forestry (prior to the 1998 institutional restructuring)
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NAP          National Afforestaion Project
NCB          national competitive bidding
P & A        provinces and autonomous regions
PMO          provincial project management office
P.D          person day
PMC          World Bank Loan Project Management Center of MFO
PMO          provincial project management office
P.M          person month
P.T          person time
SDR          special drawing right
SPC          State Planning Commission (prior to the 1998 institutional restructuring)
RMB          Renminbi yuan
SSPCG        Seed and Seedling Production Cooperation Group
TEG         technical extension group
WB           World Bank
Yr.          Year



- 27 -
CHINA
NATIONAL AFFORESTAION PROJECT
Contents
Part
Project Introduction
1.1 Background
1.2 Project Preparation
1.3 Project Area Distribution, Targets and Components
1.4 Project Implementation Results
2        Project Implementation
2.1 Implementation of the Plantation Establishment Component
2.2 Implementation of the Planting Stock Development Component
2.3 Implementation of the Technical Extension Component
2.4 Environmental Management and Monitoring
2.5 Procurement
2.6 Training and Technical Assistance
2.7 Adjustment of Project Planning
2.8 Use of Project Funds
3        Project Achievements
3.1 Economic Results
3.2 Environmental Impact
3.3 Social Impact
3.4 Technological Progress
3.5 Contributions to Chinese Forestry Reform and Development
4        Major Experience and Lessons
4.1 Substantial Support from All Government Levels and Active Local
Participation Are Preconditions of Smooth Project Implementation
4.2 Organization and Implementation in Line With Socialist Market Economy
is the Primary Motivation of Successful Project Implementation
4.3 Improved Management System, Scientific and Strict Managerial Measures
are Primary Assurances of Smooth Project Implementation
4.4 Added Technological Input and Enhanced Technological Content Are
Important Measures for Raising Plantation Productivity
4.5 Enhancement of Planting Stock Development is the Key Measure to
Establish High Quality Plantations



- 28 -
4.6 Enhancement of the Management and Supervision of Fund Use is
Economic Lever to Ensure Effective Project Implementation
4.7 Major Lessons
5        Involvement of the World Bank
5.1 Highly Efficient, Responsible Management
5.2 Rigorous Supervision and Monitoring
5.3 Elaborate Guidance and Conscientious Assistance
5.4 Flexible and Pragmatic Cooperation
6        Post-project Operational Plan
6.1 General Requirement
6.2 Objectives and Tasks
6.3 Methodology and Measures
Additional Background Papers Available in Project Files:
I    Implementation Report of Research and Extension Program of NAP
2     Comparative Analysis of NAP Plantations vs. Ordinary Commercial Plantations in
China
3     Fund Use and Benefit Analysis of NAP



- 29 -
Executive Summary
Project Name:
National Afforestation Project financed by World Bank.
Borrower:
Borrowers of the project are classified into four levels. The first level is the Ministry of
Forestry (MFO) of the People's Republic of China; The second level includes the sixteen
provinces and autonomous regions of Hebei, Liaoning, Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian, Jiangxi,
Shandong, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan, Sichuan, Guizhou and
Yunnan; The third level are the 316 counties and cities of the above 16 provinces and
autonomous regions; The fourth level are the 13,000 afforestation entities of the above 316
counties and cities.
Investment:
The total planned investment of the project is 500 million US dollars (equivalent to 2,714
million RMB yuan in 1990), of which the credit from the World Bank is 300 million US
dollars (equivalent to 230 million SDR when signing DCA). The actual fulfilled investment is
557 million US dollars (equivalent to 3,763 million RMB yuan), of which the World Bank
credit is 328 million US dollars (equivalent to 230 million SDR).
On-lending conditions:
The onlending conditions from MOF to MFO include a maturity of 20 years, grace period of 8
years, interest rate of 4.0% for direct foreign currency onlending and 6.0% for RMB
onlending. With the same interest rate but different mature periods and grace periods on
species/rotation basis, MFO onlents to 16 P & A. Accounts will be kept in RMB for the
onlending conditions borne by the final beneficiaries, with interest rate no higher than 6.0%
and the same maturity and grace periods as those for the onlending from MFO to P & A.
Project period:
7 years: August 1990 -- December 1997.
Project objectives:
To establish in the state owned forest farms and collective farms of the 16 P & A, 985,000 ha.
of intensively managed plantation (IMP) of Chinese fir, Masson pine, Exotic pines,
Eucalyptus, Poplar, Larch etc. for production of construction timber, pulpwood, woodbased
panels and pitprops. In the meantime, research and extension, planting stock development,
environmental monitoring, forest resource management will be enhanced under the project.
Fulfillment of the objectives:
Site inspection and checking during the project implementation period indicated that the
satisfactory acreage of the established plantations came up to 1,385,000 ha; and planned tasks
of research and extension, planting stock development, environmental monitoring as well as
the forest resources management were all accomplished.
Main achievements:
Achievements of the project are multiple and mainly include: (1) establishment of 1,385,000 ha
of high standard IMP plus the radiating effect to the general afforestation of the country have



- 30 -
played a significant role in realizing the Government's strategic targets of 100 million Mu
(about 6,670,000 ha.) fast-growing and high-yielding (FGHY) plantation base construction from
the middle of 1 980s to the end of the century; (2) The project helped the plantation development
of China in realizing the dual fundamental transfers from emphasis on quantity and extensive
management to those on efficiency and intensive management; (3) The project identified a
complete set of feasible models and methods for China's plantation development drive; (4) The
project proved that development of commercial plantations with international financing bodies
is an investment of high benefit and small risk.
Benefits:
At the harvest, the timber yield of the project will come to 211 million cubic meters, fuel wood
21,390,000 ton, total output value 100.15 billion yuan. After deducting cost and taxes, the total
profit will be about 73.96 billion yuan and the FIRR after tax will be 15.2%. Implementation of
the project strengthened institutional capacity building, enhanced the managerial capacity of the
forest sector in IMP establishment, evaluation, finance and monitoring; Implementation of the
project added 2 to 3 percentage points of forest coverage to the project area and reduced soil
and water losses and the pressure of natural forest harvesting; The project created employment
opportunities of 195 million person days (p-d) to the project area.



- 31 -
Part I Project Introduction
1.1    Background
1.1.1   China is a country inadequate of forest resources. The long time over-harvesting has resulted in
severe forest resource crises since 1980s characterized by the decrease of harvestable resources,
accelerated natural forest consumption and outstanding imbalance between timber supply and demand. In
1990, the forest coverage of the country was 12.98% while the counterpart figure of the world was
32.3%; the standing volume of the year was 9.141 billion cubic meters with the volume per person of 8.4
cubic meters that represented about one-ninth of the world average; the annual timber output was about
140,000,000 cubic meters with the shortage over 10 million cubic meters.
Market forecast in 1990 indicated that by year 2000, the conflict between timber supply and demand
would be even more severe ---- the gap between supply and demand of timber (fuel wood excluded)
would be 33 to 43 million cubic meters, of which the gaps of construction timber, pulpwood, and
woodbased panels will be more obvious. Additional timber harvesting will be limited by the insufficient
forest resources and added import of the timber will consume a great deal of foreign currency reserve of
the country. Therefore, only by the establishment of intensively managed plantations (IMP) in the country
and sped up cultivation of forest resources can effectively solve the timber shortage problem.
1.1.2   China has a long history of cultivation of tree plantations but short developing IMP. It have
been proved by the practice of the developed countries that, to establish high standard plantations by
small amount of land and intensive management for a great deal of timber to meet the needs of national
economy growth while rehabilitating most natural forest and protecting ecological environment is the
general tendency of the modern forestry development, and it is also the primary solution for China to deal
with the forest resource crises and alleviate the conflict between timber supply and demand.
When formulating the long term forestry development plan of the country, China drew on the experience
of forestry developed countries and listed the development of IMP as one of the significant strategic
measures of the country. In early 1980s, the Government proposed that by year 2000, a total acreage of
100 million Mu IMP would be established in the country, and the State Council, State Planning
Commission (SPC) formally approved the proposal in 1987. To expedite up realization of the target,
Chinese Government put forward to the World Bank (WB) the concept of "National Afforestaion Project
(NAP) ".
1.2    Project Preparation
1.2.1 Project proposal and identification
Chinese Government put high emphasis on the WB financed IMP establishment. The State Council
issued in June 1988 a document approving the "The Proposal of Developing IMP by Use of WB Loan",
followed by the document of SPC approving the project proposal by Ministry of Forestry (MFO) of
implementing the first phase of the 100 million Mu IMP plantations in march 1989. By these measures,
NAP completed its identification process by the Government.
WB demonstrated active and supportive attitude towards the IMP development of the Govemment and
held that NAP were significant to both Chinese forestry development and improvement of the global
ecological environment. In October 1988, WB sent a five-member project identification mission headed
by Mr. Horst Wagner to China. After discussion with relevant institutes and agencies and site studies to



- 32 -
Guangdong Province and Hunan Province, WB rectified the project and agreed that the project might
enter the preparation process.
1.2.2   Feasibility study and Evaluation
In accordance with the agreements made during the project identification, the World bank Loan Project
management Center(PMC), and the Academy of Forest Inventory, Planning and Design along with other
institutes, carried out by stages the project preparation and feasibility study. By completion of ten sets of
documents on specific topics, NAP feasibility study was finalized in July 1990.
WB contributed effective support to preparation of the project. In March 1989, WB sent a project
preparation mission to China composed of Mr. Wagner and other four members, followed by the 8-
person NAP preparation consultancy panel headed by Mr. Bertil Hedlund in August 1989. Based on
achievements and findings of the above two groups, WB conducted the pre-appraisal of the project in
November 1989, and the appraisal in February 1990.
1.2.3   Project negotiation and signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
In April 1990, Chinese Government held a negotiation with WB in Washington D. C. and relevant
agreements were made. On May 29, 1990, Board of Directors of WB approved National Afforestation
Project. Consequently, the representative of Chinese Government and the WB representative signed the
DCA on June 20, 1990.
1.2.4   Onlending agreement signing and effectiveness of DCA
Following the signing of DCA, preparation for the effectiveness of DCA was carried out promptly. In
June 1990, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MFO signed the onlending agreement; On July 14, 1990,
chaired by the then Vice Premier Tian Jiyun of the State Council, the Minister of MFO signed the
onlending agreement with the representatives of the 16 project provinces and autonomous regions (P&A)
that signed with their counties and the counties with the afforestation entities soon afterwards. The DCA
became effective on August 20, 1990, then the project preparation in accordance with requirement of WB
was put to an end, and the project entered the implementation period.
1.3    Project area distribution, targets and components
1.3.1   The project areas are mainly located in eastern and southern parts of China that are suitable for
the development of IMP. The project areas are geographically classified into five regions:
* Southern China Region, including Hainan and southern parts of Guangdong and Guangxi, that are
focused on plantations of Eucalyptus and Caribbean pine etc.;
*  Lower Yangtze River Reaches Region, including the six provinces of Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, Anhui,
Zhejiang and Fujian and northern parts of Guangdong and Guangxi that are focused on the
plantations of Chinese fir, Masson pine, Exotic pines and Broadleaved species;
*  Southwestern China Region, including the three provinces of Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunnan that are
focused on the species of Chinese fir, Masson pine and some indigenous trees;
*  North Central Plain Region, including the three provinces of Hebei, Henan, and Shandong that are
focused on the species of Poplar, Paulownia, Black locust and White elm;
*  Eastern Liaoning Region, including Liaoning province focused on Larch and Poplar.



- 33 -
1.3.2   The project is aimed at expanding the forest resources, increasing timber yield, reducing the gap
between timber production and consumption. Centered around this aim, the project contains the following
targets:
*  To improve the quality of the forest plantations through the use of superior planting stock by better
seed selection and expanding clonal production, and to increase the productivity of timber forest by
the application of advanced planting and management techniques;
*  To adopt standard financial and economic analytical methods for forest investment to make use of
the fund more effectively;
*  To strengthen the research and extension work with the focus on genetic improvement of tree
species to support the planting program;
*  To carry out an accelerated planting stock development program to increase the productivity of
planting stock;
*  To strengthen the institutional capacity building to meet the need of project implementation and
management.
1.3.3   The project is composed of the following six parts
3  Plantation establishment. An acreage of 985,000 ha of IMP will be established in the 16 P & A;
*  Research and extension. The Research and Extension Program is formulated with the emphasis on
genetic improvement, fertilization, mycoriza inoculation on planting stocks, wood property testing
etc.;
3  Improvement of planting materials. The high quality planting stock development would be
accelerated, the clonal stock use would be expanded and the hybridization plan would be executed;
*  Organization and management. Institutions with targeted responsibilities would be established;
3  Environmental management. The Environmental Protection Guidelines should be prepared and
executed;
-  Forestry sector planning. Each province should prepare a Forest Resources Management Plan.
1.4    Project implementation results
From the second half of 1990 when the project was launched to the end of the project implementation in
1997, project activities had been carried out in a orderly and smooth manner in the designated areas in
accordance with the DCA, SAR, onlending agreements of all levels, and the agreed guidelines and
regulations of the project. As a result, the six components of the project were all completed and the
targets accomplished.



- 34 -
Part II Project Implementation
2.1      Implementation of the plantation establishment component
2.1.1    The planting plans
Planting activities of the project started in the second half of 1990 and ended in 1995, and inspection and
acceptance indicated that the satisfactory acreage of established plantation is 1,385,000 ha., which is
140.7% of the designated target of 985,000 ha in DCA. Apart from the species of Larch, Paulownia, and
Black locust (White elm included), all the planting targets of species were overfufilled.
Fulfilled Planting Acreage by Species, NAP (Unit: ha.)
Year      Total          1991      1992       1993       1994        1995
Species
Actual    % of   Actual     Actual     Actual     Actual      Actual
completed Planned completed  completed  completed  completed   completed
Total        1384987.4  140.72  239066.04  365644.39  311151.01  276704.94   174150.59
Chinese fir    519633.55  151.67  104197.53  144124.22  113918.26  97089.26    60304.28
Masson's pine   146104.86  203.21  24663.99   40272.54   38027.87   29252.13    13888.33
Slash/Loblolly Pine  214267.36  301.79  35889.89   54934.74   48676.62   49282.28    25483.83
Larch         96546.7   54.86   11341.68   24390.74   22740.66   22220.17    15853.45
Other pines     18183.46  129.88  1376.19    3271.53    1772.49    5188.68    6574.57
Italian Poplar/Chinese  164146.01  101.01  23720.45   43074.53   31456.99   26981.23    20641.38
White Poplar
Eucalyptus     88972.19  148.53  16401.35   22510.88   22829.05   19089.93    8141.98
Paulownia      13706.81   68.53   3916.1     6573.6    2847.21     369.9        0
Black locust/Elm    21559.78   93.74    3538   5542.78    2263.1     3844.7      6371.2
Other boardleaved trees 101866.68  511.89  14020.86   20948.83   26618.76   23386.66    16891.57
There are two reasons for the overfulfiliment of the planned targets by 40.7%. One is the increase of the
exchange rate between US dollars and Renminbi Yuan from 1: 4.7 to 1: 8.3, which means an increase of
the originally planned fund for planting; Secondly, in accordance with the agreement of the WB, the
contingencies in Category 4 was reallocated to Category 2 to finance more plantation establishment.
Although targets of most planting species were overfufilled, those of a few species were not fulfilled. The
reason is that expansion of the planting acreage due to the change of the exchange rate was not
proportionate among the planting species, but based on the actual situation of the timber market and the
choice, intention of the planting entities. In the meanwhile, when the annual planting plans were finalized,
some adjustments were usually made on basis of the above two factors. There is a special reason for
Larch. The original actual planned acreage for Larch plantation was 50,000 ha., but we put an acreage of
1,260,000 ha. for undetermined species into the category of Larch during the project appraisal stage,
which made the planting target of Larch 2.5 times more than that of the actual planned. If the planned
acreage for undetermined species is omitted from Larch category, the planted acreage of Larch would
also exceed the target.



- 35 -
Comparison of the planting species: planned vs. fulfilled
(Unit: 0000' ha.)
60.
6C50                                                      | * Planned area
40
3  Complete area
20  _
A  B      C     D      E      F     G      H      I     J
A: Chinese fir;   B: Masson's pine; C: Slash/Loblolly Pine; D: Larch;  E: Other pines
F: Poplar;      G: Eucalyptus;       H: Paulownia;       I: Black locust;  J: Board leave tree
2.1.2 Tending of the young growth
In accordance with the afforestation model, the total young growth tending of the project should be
6,618,627 ha.- times., and the completed tending came to 5,884,726 ha.- times representing 89% of the
target. The unfufillment of the target is resulted from generally adopted improved planting technology
that helped the young growth surpass the designed standards of the afforestation models --- the targeted
tending stands had the tree crowns closed one year earlier than the closure timing specified in the model.
To this end, the years and times of the young growth tending under the project was reduced. For instance,
for Chinese fir, the originally designed "2-2-2-1 (7 times of tending in 4 years)" was adjusted as "2-2- 1 -
1"; and for the Slash pine, from "1-1-1-1" to "1-1-1".
2.1.3    The main subsidiary facilities
*   The guard/storage shed Construction of the sheds got inserted in the middle term of the
project in the light of the agreement of WB and the need of post-planting management.
Construction of the shed is based on planting acreage: one shed for every 250 ha., and 5,500
sheds would be built for the project and the actually constructed sheds came to 3,730 ones:
829 ones in 1994, 2,332 ones in 1995 and 569 ones in 1996.
*   Forest road (operational road) In line with the project design, forest road of 3 meters should
be built for each ha. of plantation, and 4,155 kilometers forest road should be constructed and
the completed came to 7,340 kilometers, representing 177% of the plan. The average density
of the newly constructed forest road is 5.3 meters per ha.
*   Firebreak General required but not quantified firebreak construction was raised at the project
design stage. In course of the project implementation, 49,740 kilometers of firebreak were
built to meet the need of forest fire prevention purpose.
2.2     Implementation of planting stock development component



-36 -
2.2.1    The planting material development program
In order to improve the quality of the planting materials, enlarge the scale and quicken the pace of
superior seed production to meet the project planting needs, the Accelerated Planting Material
Development Program was prepared with assistance of the WB. This program had been proposed by Mr.
Norman Jones, the world famous tree breeding specialist, for which it was named "Jones Plan". Through
the implementation for three years from 1991 to 1994, the plan was fully accomplished and the main
completion indicators are as follows:
*  Improvement of the seed production bases 246.7 ha of seed stands of Masson pine, Larch,
and Exotic pines was improved or established, making up 107.3% of the target of 230 ha. By
completion of the plan, 15% seed production capacity was increased and more importantly, the
quality of the seed was improved.
*  Propagation of the clonal materials was extended 244 Chinese fir clones and 336 Eucalyptus
clones were selected for the establishment of 141.15 ha of clonal multiplication nurseries
(including scion plucking nursery and cutting nursery), constituting 201.6% of the original plan
of 70 ha., by which about 30 million clonal stock production capacity was added.
*  Hybridization program 400 hybridized combinations of Masson pine were completed, of
which 300 were used for planting purpose; 1,300 hybridized combinations of Eucalyptus were
completed and 4 ha. of hybrid progeny test stand was established; 4 hybridized combinations of
Larch were completed by which some seed was obtained and about 2,000 hybrid seedlings
propagated.
2.2.2   Planting stock production
In accordance with the actual planting acreage, the afforestation model for each species and the
requirement of using only Grade I seedlings for planting purpose, a total of 3.76 billion Grade I seedling
was needed. The actual Grade I seedling production was 3.97 billion representing 106% of the target. Of
the 3.97 billion seedlings, the quantity of the containerized stock made up 22% and clonal stock 8.5%,
which were both higher than the designated targets at the project appraisal stage (see the following the
table). Refer to attached Table 2 for the specifics of each province.



- 37 -
Seeds for Seedling-Raising and Class I Seedling Production by Species
Item         Output of Class I Seedlings                  Seed Used               Scion
(million trees)                          (ton)                  Used
Species                                                                                  I
Total  Clonal  Bare-    Containerized    Total   A.    B.       C.    D.  (million
Output  stock   rooted     Seedlings                                        cuttings)
of    among Seedling
Seedling the total       Total   Root-
Number trainer
I__ _ __   __ Seedling        I
Chinese    1796.3  107.6  1796.3    0        0     152.84  107.5  36.44    8.9     0    110.5
Fir
Masson     568.5     0     324.9   243.6    6.2    53.89   6.29   24.32   23.28    0      0
Pine                                                                   _
Exotic    544.2     0      259.6   284.6    8.3    51.47  25.67  15.15     0    10.65    0
Pine   I      _I_I_I
Larch     420.7     0     414.8    5.9      0      39.21  15.23  18.39    5.59    0      0
Other     52.1      0      17.5    34.6    1.1    7.78   0.67   0.09    6.49   0.53    0
Pines                                                                             _
Chinese    84.1    84.1    84.1      0       0       0      0      0       0      0    86.4
White
Poplar
Eucalyptus   316    84.7    30       286    21.2    1.1   0.19    0.4    0.07   3.54   106.2
Paulownia   10.6    9.6    10.6       0       0       0      0      0       0      0      9.8
Black      41.6    20.4    41.6     0       0      22.35   0.64    8.1    13.61    0    22.3
Locust/Elm
Broad-leaved  137.4   32.1   127.1   10.3      0      12.76  0.81   10.43    1.52    0     33
trees
Total    3971.5  338.5  3106.5   865    36.8   341.4  157  113.32   59.46  14.72  368.2
Note: A. : Seed orchard;      B.: Seed stand;
C. : Improved Provenance; D. : Imported seed
2.3      Implementation of the technical extension component
2.3.1    Research plan
In line with the targets, research subjects and implementation plan of"NAP research Program", research
and extension activities were carried out aggressively and the plan was well completed. From 1991 to
1992, a series of research and experiment bases including 540.1 ha of trial plantation, 277.6 ha of pilot
plantation, and 567.9 ha of demonstration plantation were established in the 16 P &A, through which 33
research achievements have been verified. Of the 33 achievements, 15 were made by the Central
Research Group (CRG) and 18 by the Provincial Research Group (PRG). In the meantime, some phasic
achievements have been obtained and 260 research papers have been published. Refer to Appendix I.



- 38 -
2.3.2   Extension of the research achievements
First, at the beginning of the project, 33 achievements were selected from the 100 achievements of the
National Forestry Key Research of the sixth and the seventh Five-year Plans and extended to the project
operational activities. The coverage of the extension came to 100% in terms of project geographical
distribution and 50-100% in terms of the planting acreage. Secondly, the 33 research results, and 20
phasic achievements and practical techniques from the Project Research Plan were disseminated, which
improved the quality and efficiency of plantation establishment of the project.
Case 1: Guangxi Research Achievements
In Guangxi, 10 research achievements that are suitable for the project plantation
development were selected from 33 research achievements and extended covering over 75%
of the project area with satisfactory results.
Extension target      Area(ha.)       Coverage            Results
1. Chinese fir         28642        100%              Height/diameter
superior provenance                                   of 5-yr growth
added 45/41%,
2. Eucalyptus
fertilization           15000        99%               Volume add 52%
3. ABT powder
(Chinese fir, Eucaly.)  33467       76.5%             Add 3 percentage points to
to survival rate
4. Containerized
seedling (Slash pine)    35826       85%               Add 3-5 percentage
points to survival rate
2.4 Environmental management and monitoring
2.4.1   To minimize the diverse impact of the project activities on environment, Environmental
Protection Guidelines (EPG) was formulated aimed at reducing soil and water losses, minimizing insect
and disease outbreaks and conserving biodiversity. EPG stipulates principles and measures including
selection criteria of wasteland for plantation that should have the crown closure under 0.3, strictly
controlling site preparation by burning and overall site preparation, planting along the contour line,
planting hole distribution in triangle form, establishment of soil and water conservation belt, conservation
of original vegetation. EPG was effectively followed during project implementation with satisfactory
results. The implantation and satisfactory rates of EPG reached over 90%.
2.4.2   In order to monitor the actual impact of project activities on environment and to improve the
planting measures, 104 fixed sample sites for monitoring soil and water losses, soil fertility and pest and
disease occurrence etc. were established. Consecutive monitoring of six years indicated that slight erosion
occurred in 84% of the project planting sites, intermediate erosion occurred in 11% of the planting sites.
Compared with the traditional planting mode, soil and water losses were reduced by over 10%. Refer to
the NAP Environmental Monitoring Evaluation Report submitted by MFO to WB in May 1997 for
details.



-39 -
Case 2. The comparison of soil, water and fertilizing losses between project planting and
traditional planting of Chinese fir, during the first 5 years in Fujian Province
1500   *ts^iWu.i,i 3-EtfiS '0l!lllldtl00t!0i3221l ^1illl  _Proj ect
1000
OTraditional
500M                                                           planting   i
0
A            B           C            D
(O.lT/ha)  (10m3/ha)   (kg/ha)   (kg/ha)
A: Erosion modulus; B: Water losses; C: Loss of nutrient; D: Loss of organic matter
2.5    Procurement
2.5.1   During project implementation, 191,000 tons of fertilizer, 77 tons of pesticides, 424 sets of
transportation vehicles, 14,700 kg. of superior tree seeds, 18 sets of planting stock propagation
equipment, 87 sets of microcomputers, and 138 sets of office equipment were procured by the stipulated
modes of ICB, LICB and Shopping. These materials and equipment, after the inspection of the
commercial sectors, were distributed to afforestation entities through PMOs for project purposes. So far,
the procured materials and equipment have been well used or are in good operational condition, and the
expected results have been realized. For example, the procured 191,000 tons of fertilizer ensured the
good growth of 600,000 ha. young plantations, increasing their early growth by 10-15%.
2.5.2  In course of procurement, all the linkages from the preparation of the bidding documents,
tenders opening and evaluation, and contact signing were all carried out in strict accordance with the
stipulated procurement procedures of WB. In particular, when conducting the tender document
evaluation, the technical and economic indexes of the bidders were evaluated in line with the
stipulations of the Procurement Guidelines of WB to guarantee the justness and fairness of project
bidding as well as the quality and quantity of the procured goods, which was well accepted by both the
commodity end users and the bidders.
2.6    Training and Technical Assistance
2.6.1 Domestic training
During project implementation, widespread formal training level to level from ministry down to province
and county was carried out to the project technical and managerial staff. Cumulatively, 3,812 training
courses of 228,500 person times (p.t)regarding seed and seedling production, EP, planting techniques,
financial management and information system etc were conducted, of which 27 courses of 1,332 p.t were
at the ministerial level, 401 courses of 12,127 p.t at the provincial level, and 3,384 courses of 215,000 p.t



- 40 -
at the county level. In the meantime, 150,000 site training courses were conducted and the trainees came
to 780,000 p.t.
* Centre level
* Provincial level
o County level
2.6.2 Overseas study tour and training
To learn the advanced cultivation and management experiences in plantation development of foreign
countries, 35 study tours of 166 p.t or 2,656 person day (p.d) were sent to 17 foreign countries including
Brazil, Chile, Finland, Sweden, Italy, France, UK, USA, Canada, Japan, Korea for studies and visits on
tree genetic improvement, nursery management, plantation cultivation, IMP management, pest and
disease prevention, environmental monitoring and management, financial management and economic
analysis.
In the meanwhile, 51 persons of 231.5 person month (p.m) were sent to the Agriculture center of
Louisiana state University, Boise Cascade, Yale University, Willamete Industry Ltd. of United States for
systematic study of project management, financial and economic analysis and information system. After
the training, the trainees have acquired the current development of IMP in other countries and the
relevant techniques, and improved their ability to use English language, which has promoted the
implementation of the project.
2.6.3    Technical assistance
To guarantee the application of advanced technical and managerial measures in project implementation,
10 p.t of international consultants of tree genetic improvement, fertilization, research and extension were
recruited for services of 144 p.d. In addition, 662 p.t of 4,204 p.d of domestic experts and CRG experts
were organized to offer consultancy and training to the project.
2.7     Adjustment of project planning
Taking into consideration of the project implementation progress, the feasibility of the realization of
project targets, availability of project funds as well as changes of the domestic prices, two adjustments
were made in course of project implementation to the planting plans, funds between credit categories, and
the unit prices.
2.7.1    Planting plan
After the two adjustments in April 1993 and July 1994, the total planting acreage was increased from
985,000 ha to 1,355,000 ha. with an added acreage of 370,000 ha.



- 41 -
2.7.2     Credit category
After the two adjustments in April 1993 and July 1994, the composition of the credit is as follows (Unit:
1000 SDR):
Item     CD'. dated 1990               First Reallocation             Second Reallocation
Category
Amount  Disbursement   Increased/  Amount Disbursement Increased/ Amount Disbursement
ratio      reduced                 ratio     reduced              ratio
Total      230000                       0      230000                     0     230000
1. Material &   40000        100%          -1800     38200      100%        -5000   33200       100%
Equipment
2. Plantation   165500        52%          24800    190300       58%         5000   195300      58%
Establishment
3. Study         1500        100%            0       1500        100%         0       1500      100%
Training
4. Contingency    23000                   -23000       0                       0       0
Note: 1. Credit Agreement signed in 1990
It is proved that adjustments to project planning at appropriate time and to appropriate degree can leads to
full and more effective use of project fund to ensure the realization of the project objectives and expected
benefits.
2.8      Use of project funds (see Annex 3 for details)
2.8.1      By December 31, 1997 when the project account was closed, the fulfilled investment of the
project is 3.763 billion yuan, 138.6% percent of the estimated cost of 2.714 billion yuan at the project
appraisal. Of the 3.763 billion yuan, the credit fund is USD328 million, equivalent to 2.218 billion yuan
representing 58.9% of the total project investment, and the counterpart fund at all levels is 1.545 billion
yuan representing 41.1% of the total investment. The investment by category is as follows
(Unitl OOOCNY):
Year   Total     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997
Category                  ____                ____
I.Plantation    3446975   407982   639468   652909    710995    665921    328736    40964
establishment
2.Equipment      46730      577     26982      2402      7180      3532       4192      1865
3.Research &     8369      1799      2249      1973      2829      2341       1629      -4452
Extension
4.Planting        1590      596      626       169        147        -6        18        40
stock
5.Information    3513       428      1116      815       484        331       194        144
System                 I__
6. Technical     16058      884      1056      1235      2272      3613       1921      5077
Assistance
7. Others       239854    13419    15150      17715      19339     49767     95094      29370
Total         3763089   425686   686646   677218    743246    725500    431785    73009



- 42 -
2.8.2   Of the  USD328  million  credit, the
expenditure for plantation establishment (Category
II) is USD279 million making up 85.06% of the                         Category
total credit; the expenditure for procurement 111
(Category I) is USD46.7 million making up
14.24% of the total credit; the expenditure for TA,                     Category I
study tours and training (including the domestic
training, Category III) is USD2.3 million making  Category
up 0.70% of the total credit.                      I \
2.8.3   Of the counterpart fund of 1.5445 billion
yuan, 354.3 million yuan is from the provincial
level making up 9.42% of the total actual investment, 81.64 million yuan from the prefecture (city) level
making up 2.17% of the total actual investment, 343.1 million yuan from the county level making up
9.12% of the total actual investment, 765.5 million yuan from the afforestation entities making up
20.36% (including 297 million yuan or 7.9% of total project cost of labor contribution) of the total actual
investment.



- 43 -
Part III Project Achievements
With the introduction of advanced silvicultural techniques and management methods of the world,
implementation of the project has been ensured, from the very beginning of the project, to approach the
agreed objectives of the project and great improvements were made in economic, environmental, social
and technical aspects. And with the passage of time, these achievements will become even more obvious.
3.1     Economic results
3.1.1 Based on the current growth tendency and as a whole, it is fully possible that the targeted total
standing volume of 1.385 million ha. IMP of the project at final harvesting be realized. Calculated by the
designed increment of the afforestation models, it would be produced, in succession during the whole
project period, 211 million m3 of timber, 21.39 million tons of fuel wood as well as some forest sideline
products, with the total output value of 100.15 billion yuan. Based on the results of static economic
analysis, the total profits would be 73.96 billion yuan with the profit rate of funding of 278.9%.
Meanwhile, the results of the dynamic analysis of economic benefits shows that the net financial present
value after tax would be 4.603 billion yuan with a corresponding IRR of 15.2%. See Annex 3 for details.
Case 3: Anhui
Based on the projections in " A Study of the Property Assessment of the Project Plantation
of Anhui Province "by the Anhui provincial forestry experts in accordance with th
performance projection formula: i3/4Y = A ( -e-kX )Blj,and the results of simulated analysi
of the data from a number of sample plot surveys, the average standing volume per ha of th
project plantation of the province at final cutting, would be 263m3 for 20-year Chinese fir
202m3 for 18-year Slash pine and 175m3 for 20-year Masson pine, 137%, 109% and 97%
respectively of the growth standards promulgated by MFO, and the corresponding financia
IRRs were 17%, 15.3% and 14% respectively.
Financial analysis indicated remarkable economic benefits of the project. It provided strong evidence that
development of IMP with WB loan is a high profitability, low risk investment.
3.1.2    With the reasonable mixture of tree species of short rotation of 7-10 years ( i.e. Eucalyptus,
Italian poplar and Paulownia), medium rotation of 15-18 years ( i.e. White poplar and fiber wood of
Pines) and long rotation period of 20 years ( i.e. Chinese fir and Larch), 1.2 - 44 million m3 of timber
(See the following diagram) would be put into the market annually within 18 years beginning from 1997,
which would be a strong support for industries of urban and rural construction timber, paper-making,
wood-based panel, coal and play an important role in making up the timber deficiency from the end of
this century to the beginning of next century. Meanwhile, its indirect economic benefit in the state
economic development would be even greater with ERR of 22.63% which reflects the contribution rate to
national economy.



- 44 -
The Annual Timber Output Under NAP
(Unit: '0000 m3)
4500
4000
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
3.2     Environmental impact
3.2.1   While the main objective of the project is to develop IMP to reduce the pressure from the
imbalance of timber supply and demand, the environmental benefits of the project are significant. After
the implementation of the project, the forest coverage of each project county increases by 2-3 percentage
points and the composition of tree species and plantation quality have been improved. Most importantly,
with the maturity of project plantations, overharvesting of natural forests for timber industries in project
areas will be gradually curbed.
Case 4: Jiangxi
Some 125,900 ha. of IMP under the project was established in Jiangxi- where the forest
coverage was thereafter increased by 2.9%. It is estimated that the total standing volume oi
the plantations at maturity would be 31.942 million m3 with the timber output of 23.94
million m3 , for which 0.84 million ha. of natural forest in the province would be cut base
on the assumption of 3 8m3 of timber out of 1 ha. of natural forest.
3.2.2    Since EPG of the project has been closely followed which provided that planting sites should be
mere wasteland and barren hills as well as the open forest land with canopy density less than 0.3,
significant environmental benefit has been generated in moisture retention and soil and water
conservation. Based on the comparative analysis of impacts with and without the project, with the
establishment of 1.385 million ha. plantation under the project, an additional 232 million tons of water
would be conserved and about 21.96 million tons of soil and water loss be reduced annually.
3.2.3    Nowadays, the "greenhouse effect" caused by the rising concentration of CO2 in atmosphere
has been a worldwide environmental concern. However, based on findings of research, the growth
process of a tree is actually a process of uptaking C02 , fixing and accumulating C, so it is believed that
implementation of the project certainly plays an active role in the reduction of the"greenhouse effect". In
accordance with the estimation by specialists of CAF, 1.385 million ha. of project plantation during the
whole growth period would be able to uptake and fix 722 million tons of C in total, equivalentto the CO2
discharge of burning 990 million tons of standard coal. See the following diagram.



- 45 -
Diagram of Dynamic Change in Annual Carbon Uptaken of Plantations, NAP
7io    -00 - - C uptaken of
6000        coniferous tree                      ._
5000    *- C uptaken of broad
4000        leave tree                           -
-a*    C uptaken of total   A'\
project forest    X. "
1000
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Case 5: Hubei
Based on the calculation by Hubei Province with the formula: 1%Added water conservation
capacity = (the non-capillary porosity of planting sites -the non-capillary porosity of barre
hills)iAthe average soil depth of planting sites jAplanting acreage jAvariation rate of tre
growthij,, the additional 19.129 million tons of moisture would be retained from the 105,00
ha of project plantation of the province.
Taking the sample of No.1 and No.2 administrative villages of Lengshui town ir
Zhongxiang city of the Province, about 200 villagers live in an area of 800 ha. of extremel
distressed ecological conditions. Prior to the project, frequent droughts hit the area, lan
cracked and villagers had to get drinking water 7 km away from the villages crossing ove
hills and mountains. With the implementation of the project from 1991 and establishment o
486.7 ha of plantations in 3 successive years, the local forest coverage has been increased by
60%. Miraculously, the 8-km long ditch of the village which has been drained off for man)
years is now a clean stream, from which villagers can get sufficient drinking water fo
themselves.
3.3 Social impact
Most project areas are located in mountainous areas of the country suitable for development of forestry
but underdeveloped with lower production level and poorer living standard. Of the 316 project counties,
up to one third are poor ones and in non-poor project counties, there are considerable poor project
townships. The total poverty-stricken population of the project is about 12 million. Obviously,
implementation of the project has generated significant social impacts on local economic development
and poverty relief.
During the project implementation period, a direct labor income of 7.21 million yuan was generated
averagely for the farmers of each project county, creating 620,000 p-d of employment. Moreover, further
income of approximately 230 million yuan after final harvesting of the plantations would be obtained by
each project county, would undoubtedly be a strong aid to the poverty alleviation process and living
standard promotion.



- 46 -
Case 6: Assessment of Social And Economic Benefits of NAP for Zhaozhan Township of
Daming County, Hebei Province
1. Baseline Information
1) Rural Household    Project Household    labor
3,350               2,680                7,100
2) In 1991 forested Land  standing stock of wood    average income per capita
10 ha       360m3                  286 yuan
3) In 1997 forested Land  standing stock of wood    average income per capita
460 ha       10,500m3               1,195 yuan
2. Implementation of the Project
1992   1993  1994  1995  1996   Total
4) Planting Area (ha)     401    50    0    6       0     457
5) Planting Species   White poplar White poplar  White poplar
6) Infrastructure Construction
new irrigation well      80    10    0    7       0      97
road rebuilt (m)       15,240 1,900    0  360     0  17,500
3. Project Benefits
7) Newly-added agro-forestry
land (ha)               401    50    0    7       0    457
8) Newly-Added
Employment            55,360 6,036    0  600       0 61,996
Opportunities (p d)
9) Increased Short-Term Revenues:
Labor Fees ( yuan)   276,800 48,288    0 6,000    0 331,088
Revenues from Intercropping:
88,000 319,300 305,100 330,500 343,700 1,386,600
10) Revenue Estimate   Thinning (10th year)  Final Harvesting (15th year) Total
of Tree Crops
Cutting Volume(m3)      30,000           41,000                    71,000
Output Value(yuan)    8,908,600       24,371,500                33,280,100
3.4    Technological Progress
This is not only an outstanding feature of the project, but one of the achievements in the project
implementation. The progress has been all-sided aspects which are mainly shown below.
3.4.1    Optimized Afforestation Models
Through the introduction of the World's latest concepts, technology and scientific achievements in
silvicultural technology, Chinese planting technical guidelines and criteria for fast growing and high
yielding plantation got supplemented, improved and revised, as the result of which 18 afforestation
models were developed for various project planting species adaptable to different physical conditions of
planting sites, with the distinguished technical improvements below:



- 47 -
* First, these models take into account both the technical and economical factors. In other words, in
the design of each technical measures, they are technically advanced and economically viable.
*   Secondly, they rationally assemble the technical procedures of the silvicultural process such as land
clearing, site preparation, seedling-raising, planting, tending, thinning and harvesting. As a result, an
unified set of technical criteria and operational guidelines is set up.
*   Thirdly, these models reduce traditional high planting density, excessive site preparation and
unnecessary tending, emphasize the roles of seedling, planting and thinning and make the
silvicultural technology more scientific and rational, which comply with the principle of commercial
forest management for maximized economic benefits.
3.4.2 Scientific identification of planting sites
The latest research finding of CAF, i.e., The Assessment Table of Site Type and Site Quality for National
Timber Forest Base was adopted as the criteria for identification of project planting sites, more scientific,
rational, effective site selection was guaranteed. The average satisfactory rate of planting site for the
project is 99.7% .
3.4.3   Improved seedling production
Much importance has been attached to the planting material development and the superior seedling
raising in the implementation of NAP. Planting Material Development Program and Nursery
Management Guideline were prepared and consequently, the advanced technology in seedling production
has been ensured and of all the seedlings produced from project nurseries, up to 70-80% are Class I,
about 20 percentage points higher than those outside the project.
3.4.4   Improved silvicultural technology has generated several direct contributions to the project,
which mainly include:
*   The established plantation conform in quality to the required criteria. In accordance with the
supervision and acceptance results from a successive 5-year survey by each project province
(region), the average verification rate of the planting acreage of the project is up to 99.7% with the
average survival rate of 95.8%. The average growth increment of 3-year old young stands is 127.8%
of the ministerial standard. All the major planting species except the 3-year-old White poplar that
met only the height indicator of the ministerial standard, reached or exceeded the 5 major indicators
of ministerial standards, which reflect the plantation establishment quality. See the following Table.



- 48 -
Establishment Quality of Major Planting Species by Year
Species     Year     Application     Application        rate of        Survival/     Height
rate of high      rate of       verified area   preserving    satisfactory
quality seed    class I seedling                  rate in      rate of
plantation    three-year
establishment    growth
1991        98.7            92.4             99.9           96.3          146.4
1992        99.6            93.0             99.9           95.1          147.2
Chinese     1993         100             95.0            99.9            96.4         152.7
1994         100            95.8             98.8           96.6          148.9
Fir       1995         100             95.3             100            96.8         136.8*
average      99.7            94.1             99.8           96.1          147.7
1991        99.7            96.9             99.4           95.3          118.3
Exotic      1992         100            96.1             98.7           95.8          116.7
1993         100            96.2             99.4           96.0          123.8
Pine       1994         100            97.6             99.8           97.1          121.8
1995         100            99.1             100            97.2         122.4*
average      99.9            96.9             99.5           96.3          120.5
1991        99.4            94.4             99.7           94.6          131.2
Masson's    1992          99.9            94.6            99.7            94.0         124.3
1993         100            94.4             99.9           95.5          148.1
Pine       1994         100            96.5             99.9            95.3         132.2
1995         100            96.7             99.9           95.7         143.9*
average       99.9           95.1             99.8            94.9         135.1
Chinese     1991         98.9            91.2            98.1            94.9          88.7
1992        99.4            94.7             97.6           95.1          89.9
White      1993         99.7            95.3             98.6           96.1          90.8
1994        98.9            94.1             98.7           96.8          94.7
Poplar      1995        99.3            96.1             97.5           96.5         91.9*
average      99.2            94.5             98.1           95.8          91.1
1991        99.1            97.5             99.2           95.0          103.6
1992        98.6            93.3             97.7           94.4          95.0
Eucalyptus    1993        99.2            95.2             98.5           95.4          123.3
1994        99.6            96.9             98.8           95.1          102.0
1995        99.9            99.7             99.4           97.2         113.8*
average      99.3            95.9             98.6            95.2         104.3
1991         100            96.7             100            93.7          108.4
1992         100            97.8             100            92.4          108.7
Larch      1993         100             97.3             99.9           93.7         107.5
1994        98.7            97.4             99.4           93.4          102.8
1995        99.6            97.2             99.8           94.2         103.3*
average      99.7            97.2             99.8            93.3         106.5
Note: * refers to the incremental growth of 2-year juvenile trees
Differentiation level of the stands has been reduced. Low stands differentiation and uniformn forest forms
are regarded as primary properties of the high quality plantations today. In accordance with the results
from typical analysis of data from the survey in 1995, especially the data of over 10,000 fixed sample
plots, the differentiation level of the younglings is basically normal with the discrete degree among the
rational range. The average discrete degree of all the species is between 15-20%.



-49 -
Case7: Jiangxi
In 1995, a discrete analysis was conducted by Jiangxi Province, based on the sample
survey, on project plantations in the southern, central and northern parts of the province
and the result is that the discrete levels of Chinese fir, Masson's pine and Slash are 11.9%,
16.1% and 9.2%, respectively.
Species  Forest  County    Year    Number    Avg tree       Avg        Average      Time of
form                     of samples    height     std dev    discrete level   survey
Chinese  Class  Anyuan    1991   40-40-40    4.50m         0.47       10.44%       1996
Fir      I
1992   40-40-40    3.09m       0.48       15.53%        1996
1993   4O0-40-40    2.40m       0.26       10.83%        1996
1991   40-40-40    3.57m       0.41       11.48%        1996
Fenyi
1992   40-40-40    2.65m       0.38       14.33%        1996
1993   40-40-40    2.22m       0.24       10.81%        1996
1991   40-40-40    3.19m       0.32       10.03%        1996
Feng-
Shushan
1992   40-40-40    2.39m       0.35       14.64%        1996
1993   40-401-40    2.12m       0.19        8.96%        1996
1991   40-40-40    2.67m       0.38       14.23%        1996
Anyuan
Masson's Class
Pine      I
1992   40-40-40    1.86m       0.3        16.13%        1996
1993   40-40-40    1.38m       0.18       13.04%        1996
1991   40-40-40    2.29m       0.41       17.90%        1996
Fenyi
1992   40-40-40    1.65m       0.34       20.61%        1996
1993   40-40-40    1.25m       0.2        16.00%        1996
1991   40-40-40    2.21m       0.34       15.38%        1996
Feng-
Shushan
1992   40-40-40    1.60m       0.3        18.75%        1996
1993   40-40-40    1.22m       0.16       13.25%        1996
1991   40-40-40    4.31m       0.35        8.12%        1996
Anyuan
Slash pine Class
1992   40-40-40    3.15m       0.34       10.79%        1996
1993   40-40-40    2.36m       0.19        8.05%        1996
1991   40-40-40   3.33m        0.3         9.00%        1996
Fenyi
1992   40-40-40    2.82m       0.32       11.35%        1996
1993   40-40-40    2.08m       0.18        8.65%        1996
1991   40-40-40    3.53m       0.31        8.28%        1996
Feng-
Shushan
1992   40-40-40    2.66m       0.27       10.20%        1996
1993   40-40-40    1.99m       0.17        8.54%        1996



- 50-
* Quality of the young growth has been improved. To possess the first-hand data regarding the
planting quality and the general performance of young trees under the project, two separate surveys
were conducted by project units at all levels under the unified organization and supervision of PMC
in 1995 and 1997 with the following results: (1) 1.17 million ha., representing 84.5% of the total
project plantation acreage was Class I plantations with both preserving rate and incremental growth
satisfactory to the standard promulgated by MFO; (2) Class II plantations were 179,000 ha.,
accounting for 12.9% of the total planting acreage with the preserving rate meeting the standard, but
the incremental growth currently not but may meet the standard if sufficient management and
tending were practiced in future, and (3) Class III, 36,000 ha. (including the area devastated by
nature disasters), amounts to 2.6% of the total with both the preserving rate and incremental growth
were under the standard.
Class 11   Class III
Class I
* Both the quality and benefits of the project plantations have been promoted compared with those
outside the project (Details see Annex 2). The survival rate or the preserving rate of the project
plantations was increased by 3-5 percentage points and the growth increment over 15%-50%,
compared with the average level of commercial plantations planted at the same time out of the
project. In line with the verified results of the successive surveys of the plantation performance
throughout the country conducted by MFO from 1991 to 1994 for four years, the planting quality of
the project was at the first place among planting programs of the country.
* Establishment costs have been reduced while benefits increased. Both the technology to be
employed and economic benefits to be generated were given adequate considerations on basis of the
close match of the two factors in the design of the afforestation models, which has ensured technical
feasibility and economical viability of the project. Consequently, the establishment costs got reduced
and economic benefits improved. For instance, based on the sufficient identification of the project,
the planting density of the plantations under the project were generally cut by 10-15%, which have
created 10% of reduction in the establishment costs and significantly improved the benefits.



- 51 -
Case 8: Comparative Survey
Typical comparative survey was made in December 1997 to the NAP young growth and
the ordinary FGHY plantation in 7 project counties of Qianyang, Taoyuan, Chaling,
Tongdao, Ningyuan, Linxiang, Rucheng of Hunan province. The results were as follows:
1. NAP plantation, ordinary plantation, and ministerial standards of 7-year Chinese fir
1Rsv.           A        heMinistera                     l
80  o         p         a       s                standard
60 /-*_  171
.40 /                                 * 11          _            Project
20      *           *            *                 1
O 0       13 Ordinary
Reserving  Average height Average DBH    Volume
rate        (0.lm)      (0.1cm)      (m3/ha)
2. NAP plantation, ordinary plantation, and ministerial standards of 6-year Masson pine
100.                                                     Ministeral
80k                     _      * ||       _             standard
60
40  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UProject
20k
La--                         Ordinary
Reserving  Average heightAverage DHB   Volume
rate %      (0.(lm)    (0.1cm)     (m3/ha)
3. NAP plantation, ordinary plantation, and ministerial standards of 5-year Slash pine
100.   ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ *4                         Ministerial
SOS     r                        i                       standard
40 Z | r-r  | r  s  .Project
O                                               , *             _ aOrdinar
y   Reserving rate Average heightAverage D H   Volume yearsoary
(0. m)               (0.i  (cm)  (m3/ha)
4. NAP plantation, ordinary plantation, and ministerial standards of different growth year
of Chinese fir
8                                         +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ministerial
6                            7         .standard
4               =                                        '  Project
0 1   ,   *       ,         ,        .    *-O~~~~~~~~~-- - rdinary
3 years old 4 years oId 5 years old 6 ycars old 7 years old
(m)  (m)     ~~~(M)     ()        (M)



- 52 -
3.5     Contributions to Chinese Forestry Reform and Development
MFO defined at the beginning of the project the four objectives of the implementation of NAP to
facilitate the development of FGHY; promotion of forestry management level; acceleration of the process
of developing forestry by science and technology; and continuation of forestry opening up to the outside
world, all of which with the implementation of the project, have been basically realized. That is regarded
as one of the major contributions of NAP to the deepening reform of the management system in Chinese
silviculture and to the extension and application of advanced technology.
3.5.1   Promote the rapid, healthy development of IMP
*  First, as one of the most important steps in China's strategic design of establishment of
approximately 100 million Mu of IMP by the end of the century. NAP with investment of 3.76
billion yuan ( in average 500 million yuan each year), is equivalent to the total investment of China's
silvicultural infrastructure input by the Government. With 1.385 million ha. of high quality IMP
established substituting over 1/5 of the planned 100 million Mu, NAP has played a significant role in
the realization of Government strategy.
*   Secondly, due to the superiority in both technology and management of the project, particularly the
improved methodology and technical measures in seedling management, silviculture, scientific
extension, funding and finance, the targets of plantation establish under the project i.e., "high quality
and profitability", "fast growth and high yield" were factually realized . At present, all the project
plantations have been established and will be ready for commercial use, which has set a living
example for the local cadres and farmers to learn from. It is regarded that the demonstration and
radiation functions of the project to the adjacent areas have a profound significance.
3.5.2   Effectively promoted the level of forestry management
The implementation of the project is not only a process of introduction of the updated technology and
management methodology, but a process of seeking actively the management models of plantations
adaptable to China's reality, in which the level of plantation management of the country has been
improved significantly.
In the light of characteristics of the project, eight support systems in organizational management,
silvicultural technology, seedling supply, technical extension, environmental protection, funding and
finance, planing and regulating, and information and supervision, together with 17 corresponding
management regulations and guidelines were established under the project (Details see the following
box). It is unprecedented in the country to manage systematically such a big forestry engineering project
that covers 16 provinces and autonomous regions and 316 counties. Practice has proved that the said
management systems are applicable, which is not only a sure guarantee of the smooth implementation of
the project, but an excellent example and radiation to the whole China's forestry. For example the
Protection Forest Project in the upper reaches of Yangtze and Yellow Rivers launched in 1998 and the
Natural Forests Protection Project launched in 1997, have adopted some of the experiences in
management from NAP project.



- 53 -
Case 9: Relevant Management Regulations, Technical Guidelines and Criteria, NAP
1. NAP Management Regulations
2. Requirements for General Afforestation Designing in Project County
3. Procedures for Working Designing of Afforestation Activities
4. Regulations for Check and Acceptance of Established Plantations
5. Methodology for Project Planing Management
6. Provisional Regulations for Funding Management
7. Accounting Regulations
8. Auditing and Supervision Requirements
9. Regulations of Scientific Research and Technical Extension Management
10. Environmental Protection Guidelines
11. Implementation Program of Environmental Protection
12. Guidelines for Seedling raising Technology and Nursery Management
13. Seedling Criteria for Major Planting Species
14. Regulations for Pruning of Major Planting Species
15. Requirements for Thinning Interval of Major Planting Species
16. Fertilization Program of High Yielding Plantations of Major Planting Species
17. Criteria of Fast Growing-High Yielding Plantations of Major Planting Species
In particular, the unique management system of disbursements against statements of expenditure (SOEs)
as a necessary economic leverage to effectively strengthen project management especially the plantation
quality, is another major feature of the project. With direct linkage between fund disbursement and
plantation performance, the appropriate relationship has been truly established between plantation
establishment and finance, which is indeed one great reform on the traditional management method in
China of fund disbursement for afforestation without any debt service, which consequently, resulted in
poor performance of stands.
3.5.3    Accelerate the process of development of forestry relying on science and technology
With the enforcement of input in science and technology, and scientific management practiced, the
quality of the plantation establishment was improved greatly and increments of younglings added, which
fully embodies the thoughts of "Science and technology are the first productive forces." Based on
statistics, the contribution rate of science and technology to the project benefits is up to 50%. One point
worth mentioning is that every subcomponent, even every newly-planted tree in the 1.385 million ha. of
project plantations in over 300 counties of 16 provinces with adequate input of science and technology is
indeed an important mark of general improvement in China's silvicultural technology. Moreover, because
of the outstanding achievements of the project, some of the technical criteria and measures adopted in the
project have been incorporated in the revised National Afforestation Technical Guideline in 1996.
Meanwhile, the methodology of integrating research with practical production that is developed in the
project technical extension, the effective form of transferring scientific findings into productivity,
together with the operational mechanism of plan-guided, funding-guaranteed, production-geared
scientific research and production relying on research are bound to have active effect on the realization of
the national objective of developing forestry by science and technology.



- 54 -
3.5.4   Promote international cooperation and opening up of China's forestry to the world
As we insisted on the way of blazing new trails while striving for efficiency in the preparation and the
implementation periods, NAP has won an excellent domestic and international reputation. In the
preparation of NAP, the high quality and rapid speed of work were highly praised by the Bank Appraisal
Mission. Similarly, during the implementation of the project, the achievements have also been praised
repeatedly and rated as " highly satisfactory" each time by the annual Bank supervision missions.
Especially, in the general checking jointly held by the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) of
more than 100 ongoing Bank-financed projects in 1993, NAP was among one of the best for its excellent
implementation. In 1996, NAP was once more identified by the Bank as one of the demonstration models
for transfer of new technology and excellent management.
In view of the outstanding achievements of the project, the remarkable abilities of China forestry sectors
in the implementation and management of the Bank-financed projects have helped create more
opportunities for international cooperation in the Bank-supported projects. Shortly after the launching of
NAP in 1990, another forestry project -- 200 million-dollar World Bank Loan of" Forest Resource
Development and Protection Project" began in 1992, followed by "Nature Reserves Management Project
" in 1995, of 17.9 million dollars granted by Global Environment Facility. In 1996, the preparation of the
third World Bank forestry project -- 200-million dollar loan project named "Forestry Development in
Poor Areas" was in process. Facts proved that in the implementation of NAP, not only have the new
concepts, and the advanced technology and management methodologies in plantation establishment been
introduced from other countries, but large numbers of modem management personnel been trained and
brought up skillful in the management of foreign-funded projects and meanwhile, the outside world in
turn got to understand the achievements in China's forestry reform and advancement, all of which would
definitely produce profound impacts upon the further reform and opening up of China's forestry to the
outside world.



- 55 -
Part IV Major Experience and Lessons
As a giant investment project spreading over most provinces of China, NAP is now successfully
accomplished in line with the prescribed assignment within a few years, but what experiences have been
scored? and what lessons have been drawn? Based on the summarization of the project provinces (region)
reports, it can be generally concluded below:
4.1 Substantial support from all government levels and active local participation are preconditions
of smooth project implementation
The project is one of the afforestation programs of high standard and strict requirements with broad
participation and important social significance. If in absence of the support of the government from
various levels and the participation of the broad masses, the starting-up and operation of the project
would be difficult and it is hard to imagine the possible results.
4.1.1. Governmental support may be summed up in three aspects:
*  First, the government has been regarding the project as an integral part of the local economic
development strategy and placed it on the government's agenda. The identification of the project by
Chinese government was mainly from a strategic point of resolving the problem of timber shortage
and improving the ecological environment. As the leading body, the MFO had from the very
beginning put the project in an important position, as a " Pilot Program" and a " Profile Program"
pertaining to the forestry reform and opening up to the outside world. Thus, the project work has
been actually under the leadership of the Minister. The project leading group of MFO had held 38
special meetings for discussion and tackling of related problems and issues. The project provinces
and counties had also done the same work and gave an elaborate attention and support. Hunan
Province, for example, regarded the project as an outward "Window Project" for promoting the
economic development of the whole province. Anhui Province also treated the project as a "Priority
Project" of "Second Forestry Pioneering". Jiangxi Province regarded the project as a "Leading
Project" of "Creating Another Jiangxi in the Mountain Areas" while Sichuan Province listed the
project as a key program of rural economy development.
*   Second, to tackle the existing problems and give support to the project in aspects of manpower,
material and financial resources. The forestry sectors from the MFO down to the project provinces
and counties all had established project management offices for the project, and staffing related
technical and managerial personnel of silviculture, finance and information service responsible for
the project implementation and management work. During project implementation, more than 780
million yuan of counterpart funding had been provided by the provincial, prefecture and county
levels. All of this guaranteed the successful implementation of the project.
*  Third, the government leaders at all levels participated the project activities. Since Mr. Attila I.
Sanmez, the former Chief Representative of RMC and Mr. Gao Dezhan, the former minister of MFO
planted the first tree of the project at Dingzhoushi city, Hebei Province in March 1991, it pulled open
the prelude of the leaders at various levels to join the project afforestation activities. Based on the
incomplete statistics, up to 1000 p-t of the leaders at provincial and county level had joined project
planting activities during the project construction period. Among the project plantations, the
demonstration forests established by the government of various levels exceeded 20,000 ha.



- 56 -
4.1.2. One of the important standards for the WB to assess project implementation successfulness is the
participation degree of farmers and the income increment of final beneficiaries. This is just conformable
to the consistent policy of China --- "all for the people and all depending on the people". With regard to
the participation of the broad masses, it had adopted a series of measures, they are:
*   Firstly, it had developed preferential loan conditions. One of the major risks of the project is the
exchange risk, however, most of the risks were undertaken by the ministerial financial budget(except
the direct use of the foreign exchange). For the loan and repayment made by RMB, the annual
interest rate is at 6%. During the grace period, the interests will be capitalized. In addition, in line
with the characteristics of a long gestation of forestry production, the maturity is determined by the
rotations of different species with the maximum of 20 years and the minimum at 8 years. Thus, it
had greatly promoted the initiatives of the masses to participate in the project and use the loan for
afforestation activities.
*   Secondly, the responsibility, right and interest of the participants are fixed in the form of contract.
Through the signing of onlending contract, three major concerns of the local people are well
addressed. (1) the seriousness of the contract is ensured by notarization by the legal sector. (2) the
stabilization of the land tenure for no less than 50 years and the policies of"those that plant the trees
will own them" and "those that jointly plant will own the plantation collectively" (3) the rationality
of the return distribution. In most areas, it had clinched the principle of "Repayment by Timber",
the timber that will be used for repayment only make up about 20% of the total output. Regarding
collaborating afforestation, it should be based on the input of funding, land and labor force
converting into commensurate stocks and then sharing the profit according to the stocks they
maintained.
*   Thirdly, in the whole process from the design to the implementation of the project, the sectors of
project management and design had seriously solicited the comments of the masses and tried their
best to satisfy the masses' requirements, which had made the masses participation realizable.
4.2   Organization and implementation in line with socialist market economy is the primary
motivation of successful project implementation
Development of commerciai forestry means putting the forestry in market. Thus, strictly abiding by the
basic law of the market economy is an important aspect of practicing classified management from the
general concept of forestry development in China. The implementation and operation of the project
basically follows the said principle.
4.2.1    Based on the principle of market economy to acquire the maximum benefits, the "Compensation
System" of input, the "Reimbursement System" of payment and the system of "Special Fund for Special
Purpose" were adopted. From the project starting-up, the onlending agreement (or contract) stipulating
explicit responsibility, right and interests had been signed at all levels. Since the onlending agreement
signed on July 14, 1990 in Beijing between the MFO and the governments of 16 P & A, the similar
agreements (contracts) were signed between the project province and counties, the county with the
afforestation entities. Therefore, the compensable application of funding has been legally guaranteed.
Through the signing of these agreements (contracts) the forestry investment had realized a radical
transformation from without compensable utilization to compensable application. The "repayment
awareness" of the project units at all levels had been rooted. The "reimbursement system" of funding
payment refers that only the project activities which meet the prescribed standards can be eligible for



- 57 -
reimbursement. As a result, the "quality awareness" of the afforestation entities was greatly strengthened.
Especially, since practicing the earmarked fund for special purpose, the use of credit fund and counterpart
funding were developed optimum economic benefits so as to promote "effectiveness awareness". The
formation of the above "three kinds of awareness" indicate that the project implementation units at all
levels had primarily set up the "market awareness".
4.2.2   It had in the design conception and implementation of the project incorporated the market-
oriented law. The cultivation target and establishment scale for each species are based on market survey
and analysis, and at the same time, timely adjustments are made in accordance with the change of market.
As for oriented-cultivation, at the beginning of project design, attention was paid only to the primary
arrangement of the timbers with outstanding shortages in the market, such as construction timber, fiber
wood, wood-based panel timber and the pit pole etc. However, with the implementation of the project and
the development of large forestry processing enterprises, the goal of oriented-cultivation become
gradually more specified. The project afforestation acreage directly connecting with the processing
enterprises accounts for about one third of the total plantation area. These processing enterprises include
the MDF factories of Leshan, Sichuan Province, of Shishou, Hubei Province, and of Fuzhou, Fujian
Province; the particle-board factory of Changsha, Hunan Province and the Paper Mills of Nanning and
Jiangxi. Regarding the species selection, the proportion of some unmarketable species such as Paulownia
and Black locust have been gradually downward readjusted; On the contrary, the planting scale of some
species with wide use and good market such as Pines, Eucalyptus has been augmented. Obviously, this is
the result of market role.
4.2.3    Newly established afforestation entities should meet the needs of market economy. The
afforestation entity is the basic unit of carrying out the project activities. Among more than 10,000
afforestation entities, 50% of them were newly built forest farms, Of the new farms, about 80% are in a
share-holding form with the labor, land and funding contribution converting into stocks and then profit-
sharing by stocks. It not only has a clear property right, but also a reasonable profit-sharing. In 1997, the
MFO organized the project provinces (regions) carrying out an inspection to the right and interest set
forth in the contracts. The inspection had further strengthened the tenure of land and stabilize the
reasonable profit-sharing. This is an important foundation for the successful project implementation.
4.3     Improved management system, scientific and strict managerial measures are primary
assurance of smooth project implementation
The project not only included many provinces (regions), but also involved in a number of fields of
forestry. The mobilization of various forces to participate in the project and to cooperate closely is a must
to achieve the project target. Therefore, it is essential to establish an effective and well-organized
management system. With the focus on "quality and benefit ", the project had set up eight supporting
systems and developed appropriate managerial measures and operational approaches as groundwork for
the successful implementation of the project.



- 58 -
The Chart on the Organizing Authority and Supporting System
Existing institution of forestry        Bodies of project
sector                           management
GASS & SFF            .              SSCPG
l Afforestation Dept. -,___                TSG          |_
-|   DFRFP     1< - ~ ~ -I    ProjectMgt. Div. |
l  MOF                       A          AFIPD               . . . . -            IG      |
Level  P t L nWB project
Centeral a    C                           D           g Depti  o n t r o            Pling  Div.  _             PMC            Leading Group
4.3.1  Institut al Mt S                   mCAF                   - - -          REG          !
r:   DWFPC          |---------l           EPG     
Finance Dept.  a     - - - - m n a  Financial Div.   ft
Intemational Coopration Deptalishd  a po External Liaison Divn   g
^ _ q ~~~Forestry Industry Dept.  I - - - - - -   Procurement Div, D - J
t    Seed & seedling station o  r   deatm nSSPCG 
|Finance Dept                        _Affrestation Div.  I- - - -  _| ProjectMgt. Section | 
Provincial      i         d      s       a       ecisi  nstitute           n   t                                        Procject
C Level h       rd ect eabing          in t     Mnic   tenprov                and c         TSG p                  rovincial      Implementation
!            ~~~~~~Group      De            orsr Rsac Institute  -T              Keeac - -xes    I              M            Group
.           |~~~~~ Protection Satain      -------         EG           |
|Planning commissionl                    Fiac Di                       Planning&Fiacseto|
established  at the rovicia andcouiFinance & planning u nit     p          n Finance & Planning group  l
participad |Financ Brel               s          Seed &  seedling fstt y       f  n    |   SSPCG        1---
County m       o   F                            Silvicuntureunit   ru              lo   st  Project  ManagementOfsounty
Level         ect   ng                                                         f        sI                      PMO     |
l   l  Group     | |  Burl lu 2   | ~~~~~Forestry Research Instue|| Research & extension g7roup|      
|   |Planning commissionl         D~~L-Lisease& petcnrlstation                    EPG                   forsainEnmity i
4.3.1 Institutional Management System
The system refers to a complete set of leading and managerial institutions from the top to the bottom.
Starting from the project preparation, MFO had established a project leading group with the minister as
the group leader and composed of the directors of related departments. The group holds the responsibility
of the major issues discussion and decision. In addition, the World Bank Loan Project Management
Center had been established in the MFO, the provincial and county project leading groups had also been
established at the provincial and county levels with the persons in charge taking the group leader and
participated in by related sectors, such as forestry, finance, planning and audit etc. The provincial
Departments of Forestry and the County Forestry Bureaus also set up Project Management Offices



- 59 -
responsible for project organization, management and implementation. That management system has
played an indispensable, effective role in carrying out the project activities.
In project management, personnel is regarded as a key factor, for which human resource development is
highly weighed during the project implementation. To this end, at all levels of the project management
office, not only necessary specialized personnel are staffed, but chances of training are proved for them to
improve their job position competence. During the project implementation period, one million p-t of
managerial and technical staff and planting workers have been trained, which actually guaranteed the
execution of the advanced managerial and technical measures of the project.
4.3.2    Technical Management System
This system comprises a whole set of strict technical standards, operational procedures and specific
measures used for all links in the project implementation process.
*   First, in the annual operational design, strict technical criteria and operational guidelines are
developed for working procedures, such as site preparation, planting hole size, planting methods,
tending measures, thinning intensity and harvesting age, which provides rules and regulations to be
followed for carrying out afforestation activities.
3   Second, in the course of afforestation, comprehensive technical management guidelines are mapped
out, which require that training should be conducted before planting, guidance provided during the
planting operation and check and acceptance carried out after the planting activities. By doing this,
the effective implementation of the set technical standards are ensured.
3   Third, for quality control, the method of checking and acceptance for each working procedure is
adopted, which indicates that if one working procedure is not up to the requirements, the next one
could not be started. Meanwhile, the method of self-check by the afforestation unit, overall check by
the county-level PMO and sampling check by the provincial-level PMO is adopted to guarantee the
afforestation quality.
3   Fourth, for construction management, a responsibility contract system is used in many localities,
which specifies the responsibilities for technicians, construction personnel and tree planters. To
encourage those people's initiative in better carrying out the afforestation activities of the project,
one of the functions of such a responsibility contract system is to link the task and quality to the
income of those contractors.
4.3.3 Planning Management System
The Planning Management System is a network for exercising strict planning management in a unified
way. When plans are made for the project, the principle of seeking the truth from the facts is emphasized.
A "two ups and two downs" method is adopted to strictly keep the afforestation in line with the plan.
Early each year, according to the project afforestation target, a preliminary plan is mapped out. Based on
this plan, the department/ unit at each level makes preparations for counterpart fund, seedlings, land to be
planted and labor input. Then, the PMOs at each level will formulate a formal plan according to the
preparatory work and make it known to the related units. Upon receiving such a plan, each participating
county will, in accordance with the plan, carry out the project activities in complete compliance with the
planting species, the area to be planted, preparation of the counterpart fund, supply of seedlings and
extension of scientific research.



- 60 -
4.3.4    Environmental Management System
This system comprises the management methods and measures to be used for minimizing the impacts
caused by the project activities on environment. Therefore, the EP groups are set up at ministerial,
provincial and county levels, the Environmental Protection Guidelines are formulated and the
environment monitoring plots established across the project area to monitor such aspects as loss of soil
and water, soil fertility, pests and diseases. This has not only strengthened the awareness on
environmental protection, but also kept the impacts on environment at minimum in the course of
afforestation. Additionally, this totally new concept and practice will create positive influence on the
plantation development in China.
4.3.5   Information Management System
The information management system is actually a computer-based information management network. To
meet the practical needs, the project has developed 8 databases, namely, target database, subcompartment
survey database, database of seed collecting base and nurseries, project progress database,
subcompartment growth database, comprehensive database of plantation base, timber market database
and afforestation investment database. Those databases are used for summarizing and analyzing the data
on planting techniques, tree growth, financial input and costs for afforestation to provide basis for
exercising scientific management and offering timely guidance to the project implementation.
The systems of extension of scientific research results, seedlings and financial management, which are
very rich in contents, will be described in Sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6 respectively.
4.4     Added technological input and enhanced technological content are important measures
for raising plantation productivity
Since the forestry scientific research institutions and afforestation entities are relatively independent from
each other in China, how to coordinate their targets and interests and how to make scientific research
serve production are important issues for the project to tackle. The practice over the past 8 years has
proved that the reform and exploration is successful. As a result, an operational mechanism for
revitalizing forestry through science and technology is basically formed
4.4.1    A  scientific research extension support system  is established, which is an coordinated,
operational system. This system consists of two layers. The first layer is the scientific research extension
leading groups at the ministerial, provincial and county levels, which are responsible for coordination and
link the scientific research extension with the production. The second layer includes the research
extension groups at all levels, which are composed of 10 central research topic groups headed by 10
noted specialists from the Chinese CAF and 84 research topic groups comprising over 1,300 specialists
and technical personnel at provincial and county levels, undertaking scientific research and extension
plans. These two layers have formed a scientific research extension network covering the whole project,
thus ensuring the effective operation of the scientific research extension work for the project.
4.4.2    At the early stage of the project, scientific research extension work, as an important part of the
project construction, was embedded in the project, thus changing the relationship between scientific
research and production from "external circulation" to "internal circulation" and realizing the organic
combination. Meanwhile, based on the practical needs and the objective to achieve quality and benefits, a
relatively perfect scientific research extension plan is mapped out after in-depth discussions of the experts
at home and from abroad. This plan, emphasizing practicability and efficiency, includes such contents as



- 61 -
result screening, integration and extension, experimentation and research on the key techniques needing
to be improved. The plan aims at achieving good results to be used for the project afforestation.
.   Eucalyptuse EGzup   J
xMinisteriln                          MasfsMassepineGloup
l  I-eadingGroup   |X             -r      PoparGroup 
Centlal   PMC                                                      Larch |     su   Gnup 2 _
level                       eEadti npe GroupG
cA;                          -r    Eucalyptus Gu   
eu Pjenict Reseaeved treeG oup
each level isresponsixebr isingftice   d fre            FeftorigtGhfunp   uc-i
_| Myorrhiza(Group   |
s t                                 q ~~~~~~~~~~~~L-W.o d-propen.y-. up  >-
_ _            fl t                         q~~I   Subject Group 1 
Peovincsil    PMO e si r       ar  etensionupp                                                  
level                      Leading G36up       c         i    i ta  16 
T       l                            q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    Subject Group X 
County     PM               if r
level                     Cony_eso                          Gross rot=e
leadingGroup   |\plo&foettnniy
4.4.3  To provide  reliable financial support to the scientific research estsintoractia  prd tivit  at
each level is responsible for raising the needed fund. MFO is responsible for the fund used for scientific
research work at the central level and earmarks 5.2 million yuan for the project. The sixteen P & A are
responsible for the scientific research extension within their individual boundaries and appropriate a total
of over 12 million yuan and the 316 participating counties input in total 16 million yuan to ensure the
effective development of scientific research extension.
4.4.4 To quicken the process of transforming the scientific research results into practical productivity, the
following effective methods are chosen and applied.
*   First, To achieve the benefits through applying research results to the specific afforestation activities
and to help the local people to learn and copy the successful practices, 11,500 hectares of
demonstration forests are established for extension of different scientific research results. At the
same time. some measures are adopted to encourage the technicians to go to the grass-root
production units for technical extension and propagation and to help solve the practical problems in
production.
*   Second, technical manuals and pamphlets are compiled and printed. The central research groups at
the ministerial level, by absorbing the latest scientific results, compiled 10 technical books related to
Chinese Fir, Masson Pine, Exotic pines, Broadleaf species, fertilizer application, etc.. Those books
contain practical and operable contents concerning the intensively-managed plantations. They are
distributed to the afforestation units and play a nice role.



- 62 -
*   Third, the scientific research results, by means of the technical design of the project, are applied in
the formulation of the technical documents and technical guidelines, which proves to be a major
approach for the project research result extension and plays an important role in the application of
science and technology to the afforestation.
*   Fourth, various training classes are held to pass on the scientific research results to the technicians
and forest workers, which is the quickest way to apply the results to practical afforestation activities.
4.5   Enhancement of planting stock development is the key measures to establish high quality
plantations
" To reach the plantation standards of current years depends on best seedlings and to reach the long-term
standards depends on good-quality seeds" is the summing up of the experience gained in the course of the
project implementation. For the project afforestation, the rate of utilization of fine seeds is over 99% and
Grade I seedlings up to 95%. This mainly results from emphasis of fine seeds and strong seedlings at the
very beginning of the project. Thus a set of effective and perfect methods are developed.
4.5.1 A seed and seedling management support system is developed, which makes the three sectors of
project management, seed and seedling, and scientific research function closely. This system is mainly
composed of the seed and seedling production coordination groups at all levels. The responsibilities and
roles of the groups are:
*   To carry out the regionalization of seed provenance and formulate standards for seeds and seedlings
according to the principle of achieving high quality and benefits and to be in charge of quality
control of seeds, seedlings and nurseries to exercise a unified management of seeds and seedlings;
*   To organize the production and supply of seeds and seedlings according to the plan on the demand
of seeds and seedlings set by the project management offices;
*   To organize and implement the "Accelerated Planting Material Development Program" called"Jones
Plan". This plan requires that the project management departments put forward their requirements,
the scientific research departments formulate implementation plan and the seed and seedling
management department prepare the fund and designate the implementation units. This plan is
implemented by the three departments and satisfactory results are achieved in the implementation of
the plan, as described in Section 2.2.2.
4.5.2 For management of seeds and seedlings, the method of supply of seeds from designated points,
seedlings breeding at designated locations, directional supply of seedlings, and issuing certificates for
fine seeds and Grade I seedlings is practiced.
*   Supply of seeds from the designated points means that the seed supply department provides the
seeds in a unified way in compliance with the specific seed provenance's and their requirements for
different areas and the particular seed provenance required by the project units.
*   Seedling breeding at the designated locations means that each participating county, in accordance
with the seedling raising conditions and technical level, designates a major nursery as the main body
engaged in production and supply of seedlings and meanwhile selects a number of small nurseries as



- 63 -
the supplementary ones to the main nursery according to the distribution of the sites to be planted so
as to shorten the transportation distance.
*   Directional supply of seedlings means that the project management department signs contract with
the main nursery (or small nurseries )concerning the requirements on quality, price and supplying
spots to ensure the unified supply of the needed seedlings.
*   The issuing of the two certificates means that the units doing seed collection and transport, seedling
raising and planting must not only hold the certificate issued by the seed and seedling management
department specifying the seed production place and quality, but also hold the Grade I seedling
certificate issued by the seed and seedling coordinating group of the project.
The practice proves that the above-mentioned methods are the effective measures for ensuring the high
quality seeds and seedlings in the course of the plantation establishment.
4.5.3 To raise the quality of seedlings, strict technical measures are taken in the management of
nurseries.
*   In compliance with the requirements on producing even; and strong seedlings, the regulations on
technical management of nurseries are formulated and implemented. The regulations state explicitly
the criteria of Grade I seedlings of different species and especially the quantitative indicators of root
system, thus changing the judgment of seedling quality from the part above ground to the one
underground, which is a big progress.
*   For bare-rooted seedlings, such techniques as thin sowing, culling, root pruning, seedling grading
and packing are promoted and implemented. For containerized seedlings, the emphasis is put on
improving potting medium by increasing organic matter content and reducing the specific gravity of
potting mixtures, which has greatly improved the quality of containerized seedlings used in many
parts of China.
*   With respect to the clonal stock raising, the emphasis is put on enlarging the stock raising area and
increasing the number of colon used. The percentages of the plantation established by clonal
materials are 100% for Poplar, 19% for Eucalyptus and 5% for Chinese fir.
4.6 Enhancement of the management and supervision of fund use is economic lever to ensure
effective project implementation
The management of financial resources is the central point of the project management. How to strengthen
the management and supervision of the fund and how to use well such an economic lever is a key to the
successful implementation of the project. Based on the introduction and blazing new methods, a set of
effective financial management methods are developed. The important points are as follows;
4.6.1 The rules and regulations are formulated and the training of financial personnel is strengthened.
Since the project is a billions- yuan project covering over 300 counties, it is indispensable to exercise a
strict and standardized financial management. For this purpose, the project has introduced the
international financial system and accounting methods and combined them with the characteristics of the
forestry production in China. As a result, the financial management regulations and accounting methods
for the project are developed so as to keep the financial operations in line with the set regulations.



- 64 -
Meanwhile, training classes are held at different levels. As a result, the quality and ability of the financial
personnel are improved. Through attending the training classes, the financial personnel have mastered
international financial management and accounting methods and known well the business on financial
management for the project, thus ensuring the effective operation of financial management work.
4.6.2 For financial management of the project, the reimbursement system is the core. As stated above,
the reimbursement system is a unique, effective method for financial management of the project, which is
an important reform of the China forestry financial management. When the project makes reimbursement
of credit or loan fund, the basic regulations on the reimbursement system of the world Bank must be
strictly followed and some supplementary contents are also added according to the requirements of the
project quality and management. The supplementary regulations stipulate that nine types of
reimbursement cannot be made and check system combining planning, planting quality and financial
affairs is practiced. Thus, the reimbursement method has played a good role in the implementation of the
project.
4.6.3 Measures are taken to ensure the full preparation of the counterpart fund in a timely base. The
counterpart fund accounts for 40% of the total budget of the project. Since the reimbursement system is
practiced for using the credit fund, the afforestation units must have certain amount of fund, i.e. the
counterpart fund ,to start the project. To ensure the counterpart fund to be prepared fully and timely, the
agreements signed by the departments at each level specifies the amount and the sources of the
counterpart fund and at the same time, strict measures are taken in the operational process, that means
that the units, when making reimbursement, must submit the required documents provided by the bank
stating that the counterpart fund is ready. In this way, the percentage of the counterpart fund put into
place for the project is up to 95%.
4.6.4 Repayment is considered before the fund is borrowed and used. Ensuring the clearness of the debt
and good repayment is one of the important issues of financial management of the project. Therefore, on-
lending agreements are signed with the governments at each levels, which clarifies their individual debt
and rights. On the other hand, in the course of the project implementation, contracts for using the credit
fund are signed with the afforestation entities when the credit fund is granted to them. The contracts
specify clearly the tasks to be undertaken, debt amount, terms and conditions, their rights . To make sure
the debt and the rights of creditors are fixed, the World Bank Loan Projects Management Center of the
former Ministry of Forestry made an inspection and check on the debt of the afforestation entities in 1993
and solved the issues of the debt which were not clear or fixed. Meanwhile, to ensure the repayment in
future, the repayment methods have been developed and a mechanism for repayment has set up after the
1993 inspection. The yearly repayments to be made in future are calculated in advance. The channel for
collecting repayment fund by the governments at all levels has been identified and the method for the
afforestation entities of making the repayment by raising a mortgage on their existing forests is worked
out, which has laid a solid foundation for making the timely and smooth repayment in future.
4.6.5 Auditing is used as an supervision means to improve the financial management work.. Auditing, as
a conventional method for supervising the project activities, is conducted at each level on a yearly basis,
which is seldom used in the financial management of other afforestation projects. The practice has proved
that this method is good to the improvement of financial management of the project and also to the
implementation of the project as a whole. For instance, through auditing in 1991 and 1992, a few project
counties were found to have the problem of delaying the counterpart fund, even some counties to divert
the project fund to other purposes and some management personnel to have the embezzling problem.
Those problems were dealt with by the project management system in a timely manner with a purpose of
checking the erroneous practices at their outset. The methods for solving those problems have been used



- 65 -
as the management measures for the project and helped the project develop smoothly towards the
anticipated objectives in line with the set requirements.
4.7 Major Lessons
Although the National Afforestation Project has achieved tremendous success and gained a lot of
experience, there are still some lessons to be used for implementing the future World Bank loan projects
or absorbed by the forestry investment projects.
4.7.1 There exists the contradiction between the long rotation period of the plantations and the early
repayment of the loan. Although the NAP is successful and has, from a long-term point of view, achieved
remarkable economic, social and environmental benefits, its investment recovery period is longer than
that of other projects because the rotation period of the plantations is generally 10 to 30 years. Although
the project design has given some consideration for a grace period of 8 years during which the interest
would be turned into the principal, it would be considerably difficult for some afforestation units to make
the timely repayment of the loan because of the characteristic of forestry in slowness of achieving
benefits.
At present, there are a number of methods to solve this contradiction. But the following two points must
be considered. The first one is to establish a close link between loan borrowing and repayment, that is to
say, to assess the comprehensive repayment ability as a prerequisite when an afforestation unit is
selected. The second one is to make a rational arrangement of short, medium and long term benefits to be
achieved when the contents of the project are designed, that is to say, to allow the afforestation units to
undertake some fast benefit making businesses like developing economic forests while their major task is
to establish the intensively-managed timber plantations.
4.7.2  The risk that the project takes in foreign exchange is too big. Although the central financial
department takes the risk for 85% of the total foreign exchange of the project, the risk for the remaining
15% of the foreign exchange directly used by the forestry sectors is too big for them to take ( for instance,
the exchange rate was I dollar to 4.7 yuan when the project was started, but increased to 1 dollar to 8.3
yuan in 1994.)since the project is a forestry project which is oriented towards social benefits and takes a
long period of time in achieving economic benefits.
4.7.3    The planting density is relatively high. Although it was considered at the early stage of project
design that increased input in fund, science and technology could improve the quality of the project
afforestation and the growth of trees, the planting density of different species was reduced by 15 - 20% as
compared with the traditional practices in China. However, as matters stand, there exist some problems
with the relatively high planting density of some species. Such a lesson has drawn great attention from
the forestry institutions of science and technology. Therefore, the planting density has been rationally
readjusted for the Forest Resources Development and Protection Project and the Forestry Development in
Poor Area Project.
4.7.4    The quality of seedlings is not quite satisfactory. Although great attention has been paid to the
production of seedlings and many effective management methods and measures have been taken to
improve the quality of seedlings which indeed has been improved a lot, the production of seedlings is still
a weak point in the implementation of the project. The major point is that the individual seedlings could
reach the set standards, but in view of the totality, there exists a considerably differentiation, which could
not meet the requirements for establishing intensively-managed plantations.



- 66 -
Part V Involvement of the World Bank
During 10 years of preparation and implementation of NAP, strict supervision has been conducted and
timely guidance and instructive recommendations regarding the newly-emerged troubles and problems
provided by the World Bank. In General, the Bank's supervision and management have been highly
effective which are summarized below:
5.1     Highly efficient, responsible management
In the whole process of preparation and implementation of NAP, the high efficiency of the WB staff and
consultants has left an outstanding impression upon the Chinese colleagues. Indeed, it is unprecedented
for Chinese forestry sector to manage such a huge Bank-funded afforestation project of 300 million dollar
and a totally new task to the Chinese forestry managerial staff at the beginning. However, it took only one
and a half years to complete successfully the preparation of the project from identification, preparation,
pre-appraisal, appraisal to the formal negotiation and signature of DCA, which is a forceful evidence of
the excellent collaboration between the Bank staff and Chinese forest experts and high-efficiency of the
Bank staff. Furthermore, during the implementation of the project, all the rational requirements forwarded
by Chinese managerial staff were responded promptly and problems resolved timely. No delay from the
Bank staff was observed that affected the implementation of the project.
5.2     Rigorous supervision and monitoring
It turned out that the rigorous supervision and management system of the Bank has been conducted
effectively and successfully during the implementation of the project. Under the system, the Bank
reviewed the regular documents submitted by Chinese part which included project annual plan, progress
report, final accounting and auditing report, the progress report on technical extension, and various
procurement documents; besides, the Bank supervision missions comprising the Bank staff and
consultants with profound professional knowledge were sent to the project as agreed annually and at each
stage of the project for field visit. Totally, in both the preparation and implementation periods, 20 Bank
missions of 73 p-t were sent to China to conduct the strict checking and monitoring, which is a very
important guarantee for the implementation of the project to follow closely the agreed plan and
objectives.
5.3     Elaborate guidance and conscientious assistance
The successful implementation of the project with its reputation at home and abroad is to a large extent
due to the guidance and assistance of WB. As early as the preparation period of the project, considering
that it was the first time for Chinese forestry sector to carry out such a big Bank loan project, WB sent a
8-member preparation group comprising consultants in a variety of fields such as: economy, seedling,
silvicultural technology, environmental protection, etc. to help successfully Chinese forestry sector with
the feasibility study of the project. During the implementation period of the project, Chinese forestry
sector showed the weakness in seedling production. To this end, WB invited an experienced British
seedling specialist to provide particular guidance for the project seedling production. Moreover, many
useful recommendations and suggestions were proposed for implementing the project. Under the
guidance of these Bank consultants, scientific methodologies have been introduced into project activities
including establishing plantations in a lower density, rational site preparation, scientific fertilization on
younglings, checking of differentiated level of young trees with the method of discrete level and rational
seedling culling by means of normal distribution, all of which have produced outstanding effects upon the
high level of project management, resulting in the success of the project.



- 67 -
5.4     Flexible and pragmatic cooperation
It has taken a decade to prepare and implement the project, during which 3 Bank officials were in
succession, responsible for the project, Mr. Horst Wagner, Ms. Victoria Elliott and now Mr. Richard
Scobey, all of them shared the same high sense of responsibility for China's forestry project and
cooperated very well with Chinese colleagues. During the preparation and implementation of the project,
not only had they ensured the agreed objectives, principles and relevant provisions and regulations to be
closely followed, but listened carefully and patiently to the report of the problems whatsoever emerged in
the project activities given by the Chinese colleagues and adopted as many proposals adaptable to
China's practical reality as possible to ensure the smooth implementation of the project. For example, the
timely approval of the reallocation of fundings among the credit categories and the readjustment of unit
cost of plantation establishment proposed by the Chinese staff based on the change in foreign exchange
rate and the price rising made the use of funding in credit categories more rational, and the higher quality
of the establishment was guaranteed without being affected by inflation.



- 68 -
Part VI Post-Project Operational Plan
6.1     General requirement
There are arduous works to be done dealing with the tending and management of young plantations and
debt repayment after the completion of the project. The whole work should be conducted around focuses
of quality, benefit and debt service with 4 principles to be followed: the principles of quality and benefits
in priority, establishing rational ratio between input and output, combining effectively the technical
measures with those of administration and policy, and giving full play to the role of the project
afforestation entities with the assistance from other units. In line with the design of the afforestation
models by species, the post-project management would last from 1998 to 2014, totally 17 years.
6.2     Objectives and tasks
6.2.1    The objective of the post-project management is to strengthen and extend achievements of the
implementation period by trying best to realize the goal of over 90% of the project stands meeting or
exceeding the incremental target of the designed afforestation models to improve the economical benefits
for timely, sufficient debt repayment.
6.2.2 The tasks of the post-project management are: (a) to carry well out the tending management of
project stands and three preventions works (prevention of forest fire, pest and disease, timber theft and
livestock damage); (b) to mobilize adequate funding to support the post-project work; (c) to strengthen
the afforestation unties to ensure that the economic benefits could come to the project beneficiaries in line
with the agreed ratio; and (d) to collect sufficient proceeds to ensure the timely debt repayment.
6.3     Methodology and measures
6.3.1    To strengthen the management of yonglings of the project so that the achievements in plantation
establishment would be consolidated.
*   A classified management has been practiced based on the findings of the general survey of project
plantations of Class I , Class II and Class III in 1997. Besides, in accordance with the operational
program developed by each project province based on the principle set by PMC of "retaining the
level of the Class I, transferring the Class II to the Class I and rescuing Class III", supervision would
be conducted to ensure the activities conducted with strict observance of the program.
*   Revise the post-project technical measures in afforestation models and prepare improved technical
operational guidelines. At present, revisions should-be made in schedule and density of thinnings as
well as tree pruning. To this end, (a) project provinces and autonomous regions should be organized
to sum up the experiences of thinning conducted in 1995 and 1996, to revise the schedule and
density in the thinning program; (b) The "Pruning Technical Guideline" dated 1996 should be
further improved in the light of the implementation in recent two years; and (c) PMOs at all levels
should be supervised in the preparation and implementation of the post-project management and
training program regarding thinning and pruning to make sure that all the afforestation entities are
able to master the said two key techniques.
*   Strengthen the regular management of yonglings to avoid the nature hazards as well as harms
created directly by human factors. The main task of the regular management of yonglings following



- 69 -
project implementation is the "Three Preventions". To fulfill the work, PMOs should be caused to
turn over these responsibilities to forestry sectors at corresponding levels as their regular work with
the staff and funding managed by these forestry sectors.
6.3.2    Further implementation of the existing forestry policy is needed to finalize the process of
afforestation entities into self- management bodies.
*   Stabilize and further improve the afforestation entities. Of all the shareholding forest farms,
collective forest farms, state forest farms, and individuals, the focus of the work should be laid down
on the stabilization and improvement of shareholding forest farms and individuals in the land tenure
of their planted area together with the benefit allocation program to ensure the final success of the
project.
*   Encourage compensable transfer of project plantations. Suggestions or help should be made to the
department of laws and regulations in forestry sector to set up policies allowing compensable
transfer of the standing stock of project plantations by the afforestation entities, and joint
management between the afforestation entities and big industrial enterprises by taking the project
plantations as raw materials.
*   Strengthen the monitoring of the dynamic of timber market. Assistance should be provided to the
project afforestation entities in the revision of the tree cultivation targets. To this end, regular contact
with timber market supervision departments at corresponding level should be enforced by PMOs.
Meanwhile, information concerning the trend and projection of timber marketing, as well as the
appropriate cultivation target of each planting species should be timely informed down to the
grassroots afforestation entities for their timely awareness of the market trend and adjustment of
cultivation target.
6.3.3    Adequate funding should be mobilized to guarantee the smooth conduction of the post-project
management. Based on the afforestation models, the post-project management will be from 1998 to 2014,
during which 2 billion yuan will be needed. As planned, the majority of the fund would come from the
afforestation entities while small portions from the allocation of the forestry sector and forestry loan with
subsidized interest.
6.3.4    Timely repayment of the project loan in line with the debt service arrangements of the project.
Collecting the proceeds for repayment of project loan would be conducted based on the debt service
arrangements made by MFO and each project province in the way that the lower level should be
responsible for the upper level while the upper level should supervise and monitor closely the work of the
lower level. The annual funding will be collected to ensure the smooth, prompt repayment.



- 70 -
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Victoria Elliott, Norman Jones, John Tumbull and
Zhou Weiguo, accompanied by Tom Brummer, who looked mainly at FRDPP plantations,
visited China for varying periods between May 12 and 30, 1998 to prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the National Afforestation Project (NAP). The mission sincerely
thanks the PMC and CAF and the provincial and county PMOs in Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Liaoning,
and Fujian for their excellent arrangements, frank discussions and warm hospitality. This brief
aide-memoire records the main findings of Ms. Elliott and Mr. Tumbull. (Messrs. Jones and
Brummer may present some findings separately when they return from the field.)
2.    The purposes of the ICR are to:
*  extract lessons from experience to improve country strategies and project design in
future;
a  encourage the Bank and the borrowers to do a self-evaluation of the impact of their
work;
* provide accountability to Bank shareholders about the use of IBRD/IDA funds, and
* maintain a record of the implementation experience of projects to help assess
development impact.
The ICR consists of the borrower's report and the ICR mission's report. We will transmit the
full report to Chinese authorities within two months.
3.    As is well known, the NAP has exceeded its objectives and is considered one of the most
successful of the World Bank's projects in China. The mission was delighted to observe the
outstanding quality of the plantations and nurseries. The preliminary re-estimate shows both
ERR and FRR slightly higher than estimated at appraisal. The Implementation Completion
Report prepared by the PMC -- on the basis of contributions from participating provinces --
provides a thorough and thoughtful assessment of the project's achievements, impact, and future
sustainability. The mission looked particularly at four issues:
the management of NAP-financed plantations between now and final felling;
the impact of NAP improvements on forestry activities outside the project;
* future directions of forestry research.
* future flow of investment into commercial forestry.
4.    Looking forward to the continuing management of the NAP plantations and related
plantation activities in FRDPP, the mission sees two challenges.
* As markets and prices for wood products constantly change, the Afforestation Entities
need to adjust their thinning and harvesting regimes so as to maximize productivity
and income. The PMC and PMOs should consider how to assist AEs to interpret



- 71 -
market information and to adjust their thinnings and rotations accordingly. They
should also help the AEs choose species for replanting after final harvest.
The plantations clearly show the benefits of NAP's significant silvicultural
improvements, but a few issues may require attention. For example:
*  The research on planting densities suggests that the Chinese fir plantations
planted in 1991 and 1992 might be even more productive if thinned
immediately to lower densities than originally planned, i.e. without waiting
for thinnings to reach commercial size.
*  Some variation was observed in the plantations in Liaoning that might have
been caused by the way the seedlings were handled during transplanting. The
Jiangxi PMO has developed useful guidelines on seedling handling that could
be more widely disseminated for use in FRDPP and other planting programs.
*  Although there has been some increase in the number of Chinese fir, poplar
and eucalyptus clones in use, it is important to keep this number steadily
increasing.
5.    Looking at NAP's impact on non-project activities, the mission has two observations.
*  PMC and the PMOs have introduced many effective management techniques that
were not formerly used in forestry. They include: monitoring and quality control of
plantations and planting material; data management; the use of economic analysis for
investment allocation; financial management; the effective use of training and study
tours; team-building and delegation. These deserve to be further disseminated so that
they will be widely used even after FRDPP is completed. PMC should consider how
to assist provincial and county forestry bureaus, silvicultural companies and other
entities to adopt these techniques systematically to all commercial forestry programs,
adapted as appropriate to lower-potential sites and lower-intensity silvicultural
practice.  To do this, PMC could perhaps consider providing consultancies, sub-
contracting or other types of partnerships.
*  In some counties or provinces, the NAP/FRDPP organizational units are working
alongside regular forestry bureau units.  It is time to consider how to eventually
integrate these two systems, so that the silvicultural and management improvements
of NAP/FRDPP become the "mainstream" of plantation activities.
6.    Research. Most of the research results incorporated into NAP guidelines were based on
research conducted before NAP started. Before NAP, there was no clearly defined extension
mechanism with appropriate incentives, and this had inhibited the application in plantations of
these new science-based technologies. The NAP specifically provided this mechanism. Results
of research conducted during the 1990-1995 are starting to be applied and will progressively
make an impact on afforestation practices and outcomes. The greatest gains from' research in
NAP have come from the application of the results of tree breeding. Gains in the quantity and



- 72 -
quality of wood have been very significant for all species included in NAP. The substantial
improvement in plantation productivity could not have been achieved without the application of
correct species-site matching, better nursery management and plantation establishment
techniques. The application of clonal technologies is a significant move in the intensification of
practices to produce high yielding plantations.
7.    The major impact of the NAP may not be from the higher productivity of the 1.3 million
hectares of plantations it established, but rather from the changes it may have catalyzed in the
way research findings are extended and applied in practice in the millions of hectares of
plantations yet to be established throughout China. An important element of this was the
creation of ten research groups in CAF accountable for synthesizing research results of
operational value. Through direct contact with field foresters, researchers had both the mandate
and the opportunity to work on high priority issues. These groups are continuing under FRDPP.
However, for the longer term, CAF and State Forestry Administration (formerly MFO) need to
consider permanent mechanisms to better link forestry research with operational priorities. A
clearer view is still needed about how this experience can be applied in future and to the full
range of research activities, because these aspects were not fully evaluated in the Implementation
Completion Report on Research and Extension.
8.    Investment Financing for the Future. NAP has shown that commercial timber forestry
can be a profitable investment, as long as long-term financing is available and investment
decisions are made on the basis of good market projections and rate-of-return analysis. To
ensure that investment funds continue to flow to timber forestry in China, financing and taxation
regimes need to be made attractive to investors, since commercial lenders generally do not
provide the long maturities needed for timber plantations. Taking into account all taxes and
fees, however, forest products now are typically taxed at the relatively high rate of about 30%.
Available government financing generally carries subsidized interest rates but maturities that are
too short for most timber crops. The SFA should, in the mission's view, undertake a major study
of the incentive structure for investment in plantation forestry and prepare recommendations for
improvements. NAP experience and analytical methods would provide valuable inputs to such a
review.



IEEE 22268
liE'                     11;2'                   11IA'                   1 6'                     18'                    2 0'                   122'                  ' 14'6'
C H I N A                                                                                                                                          s    i
NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT                                                                          NEI   MONGOL                                                           '        > JILIN
LIAONING, HEBEI, AND SHANDONG PROVINCES
-42~~         POPLAR                                                                                                    I
MSELNOSBROADLEAF SPECIES(                 'Chfn'T 
0    SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                 LiOBWOE' 
HEBEI !
RAILROADS
RIVERS                                                                               c-d
DEANS CANAL                                   0Zh-ngjOk-         __rIA
----PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                      BE"'                                                                                                       SLOBENO
0   0     lEE    100    2900DM   EOL
KILOMETERREIN                                                                                                                                                                    REP. OF
Ihi,  -d b, lfi~~~~~~~~ ~~.dd ~~~A'-ff .-I w* f., & ~~~~~~~KOREA
Mi' ~ ION pn.p~,.dby Ph. T64 W64 ~lldW4AnA
.5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L6
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE                                                                                                                                                         8
56'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~6
OiPg6EIO                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   M/  K'  OREA
-36~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                       L'46t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ,  -EA~~~~~~~IPOE,  AA
0>                                                                46001 OOAPJOOOPJO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  4blllN
/                                                     PATIO EOPUO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA
y .. h.. ~ ~      )INGUo(E,                                                                   460, OT
Lie~~pongang                           )ORO. RB~~~.    IHAISICHUA
112'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 114'  116A' 22                                                            HLIPPE
HENAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A PuRoo



. SHANG-                      Mt It                                                                     MONGOLIA                       RUNEM
\l.  DONG.' IPeq                                                                                                                   KOREA
V                                                                                                       'ONG; XIsn . \ X /  REP OF
H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1                                           KOREA
-_____                                      j    |  A         N     G     S    U                                     4RUU. SR    'REOF
_ ,<.           Huaibei ---- ,4.          CJ                                                     GANSU . .   '  HERAN,           KOREAGU 
-34U                                                                                                                             S      |ANHUI  SA U
HENAN   ,                           -         Szo                                                
HUUHI        i '.,R .                                                                               '- . HUN6
at~  ~                         T                                                                                                . HAE U.               SKI .GI8O      VU
Ht ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ '                                                                                          UNAN :, -SzU    SCI    - I L'RL TAWAN
, X J    ,               ~~~~Bengbu-           fJ       I                                  K              CR| UANCXI ,CAUANGGONC
V  ',J.*                                .                      SHOTLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~  KOPSG
&_ Fuyang                                                                                         N - :   ~-- >    '_   i  |   .m<; v ET  \.   .    MACAO, PORT
FUyHIRg                                                                                       SPE~LE~>           -   -   BHum-A-' _ PHILIPPINES
V++tS                    ,'\   Zhenpoang                       120'                               122
A  N  Ht U  J                               4HPHB>
t|Hefei                                                            ,32
.2                                1c                                Mconshcn  K^,                                          f 
Xiv_ .....*-     O      Et                                                 huh_ *ShwaghH)
-*J\ )                           , ,Wuu<_ ,/ 7                                .INGHAI
"v\  ~>            CcgAnO+*j   5  A  SHI
o Huan; h \ / X ;;9 N ngbo 0--gli~ 
H U B E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZUUJUiI
| .ha~ A*-i(g Nnchan                                                 1HE J IAN  G
00
*  /' '   >\~~~~~~~~-~~4YIngtan                     ^             <Nt   Wenzhou o~~~~~~~~IHllag 
J I  A5 {f XROJECT
-26    /   Ganzh~oun1ong.               5QFU                                                                       NDFUIA    PC)INE                      26-
e_                                                      J  t;   ^    ................. , t ,hangp~~~~~~~~~~- h o   J - i - g   CHNS I
N   :-hw                                          SMSELNOUS RODEA SEIE
-28'                                                                                                                                                           28
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UA                                                                      I N A   
TIE S U> HxAJW
F-hou   NATIONAL AFFORESTATION
0                 ~~~PROJECT
N                ~~~ANHUI, ZHEJIANG, JIANGXI
-26                                                                                                                    AND FUJIAN PROVINCES
G-h.. r                                                                                                                                        26 >,>. oiln2
2~~~~QUTBPTB ~~~~~~~~~~PINE
LR'R195'UHB         ~~~~QUUTZhUU                                 I POPLAR
I        I                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MISCELLANEOUS BROADLEAF SPECIES
&     >                                         0   SELECTED TOWNS
R*~~~%,~~~  r~~~t  NA        ' ~~~     ZIXhwgURRH       '0----  RAILROADS
Sionmen                               -..- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
GUANGDONG
0  251                               12 ISI
* 'ETI"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~KILOMETERS
A  lIt                             lit                                    I\B'                                    520'                               l22 H'~~~~~~~~~~1,6



t    t 0 iHH   U NAHURf                                                                                                         NKMOUA
1    '-   IONAL   AFFORESTATION PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~CH IN 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U  N  A  N  w    haoyng _; 
> Jf / p H~~~~~~~~~~~~~engshy'ang- <Loudi_ HNS I
X    X    0         /              /                 0          <    Chalig                          l>s0<SiiShaoyang
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;,< A ,  m    
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~HN
Chaling                A.-    ~~~~~~~~PEOPLAR
6 _ @ >6 | | l l t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS                                                                                 26'
r,L l           I RIVERS AND LAKES
CHUNAN CX     .PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
GUANGXI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MSELNEU RA
0   25   50    75   100       150
This   ---f   7dbtheMop                                                                          L~   I    I    I    I   _.     I
Desion emt of The Worid Jonk                       q   S             Z-      ~              >                                                 KILOMETERS
The 'udres5, colos, denominations          V       ^t                                 
and anyothr nd;rmonsono                               g__                                                                                                                  x
this map do not imply, on the port of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
-   on the legal status of any territory, or
a ony endorsement or acceptance of such                                GUANGDON
110,                                   1112                                    1014                                    116-                        O



108'                             lO'                                                                  112'                               114 A                              116R
GUI7HOU                                                       /                                                     HUNAN                                      JIANGX!
| 0 )$ t-, : X oF <, r fU.}~~~~~~~~~~~~~IANGX
24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24
flNGOUa >urn g.                   -                                                               //  Chinese FirFUJIAN
0   8eloct   ,,             fefou            8      3    t                                    SOUTH  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E":2lvP~~~~~Meah,
E CHINNAONG AND GUNXI PROV.NCESA ONG
M.OG@UPrChinese Fopirol                                                                                                                                                 S
KOREA~~                                                                                                                      ~~~~ X     Oxiiopeo/;zk    Proines onore
BEIJIG@       /'          JAAN       GXeIb
l   <~~ t           FACIFIC                          ty>              <'        :      the MUndfhneesinfcotnfonor~~~~~~~SiOUTHo             RIIITI-  Miselenafneous BroundlafrSecie
tt   '>  v GU9Gt  UANGroblKOREA                                                                                                     CHINAn -X~-  Rainen             08 ^          lroods , ,   0,  
,o  ;;  DrXR                                         <    >    YrwO.;rm  M-t1-gint                             1129                                ii4                                 11,6'             ,   _       _  _1G 1<0NI
CHiNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mc   HN
MONGOLIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                                                               Shielee Town
'    proineCpos
REP. OF           Guff ~      1AADE.ntat tTh  srdBak
KOR OtC          2'frA-Te osaea  aeSOUaaanTH,                                                                                         WInelrnetoual BroundalefSpce
-'                                                                                                                       sthI~,tattanCHINArfta-s r                    9-                                                               20 -29
I  PHIUPENRO  j                                               asy~~~~~~~~~~ada~~~eat or acceptance at such                                                                     P..,53~~0 rovnceCaptal
oPEOPIR'                                                                                 bs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teandpriesa oosa.nmnfos-            neaitolBudre
IA                                                              >     Yo~~~uan  ,p.X4p~~~~                            112                                114 ACIFI



IRED 22320
9E-                       100-                     A102                        104                       1066     /                 10; i0                                                IR22
-34                                                                      G         A         N         S         U                                                        c H      I N A                   34'
9   --   n  :  NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECT
Q I N G H A I'----                                .                                                                  ( /                                       S ICHUAN PROVINCE
CHINESE FIR
. . .........   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~C-'PINE
11' J   -\,,   g   A  ,,,,  ,,   (}   s    8    hMISCELLANEOUS BROADLEAF SPECIES
N                            -s----  RAILROADS
A_          _ J            ) ; (>_ o. t / RIVERS
NNX                                                                                               /         ; 0301shiu=n    ,,<_                                           PROVINCE CAPITAL
-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-32'                                                                                                                                                                 >   _X   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES      32I
X I ZA N G                                    snesow                                Z .h                  :l                    ~~H  U  B  E  I
XIZANG                                                                                    4E, o                                                        '                     H                  El
NOIILOEE   ~ ~ 0CHONGOING
G | Y U  N Z HH    N A N 0  U
sa  *}   l oo   To KunSl 02                 I G4    i                   106   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ' " ~~~~ 9>    .               _      '2  M6CAO, PORT7 oOpOPOE
-21                                                                                                                           M. N.. L I                     PEOPLE'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A(O rPL 
Xkh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)E NEP MOANGOANIE
or    Z2:2.Z--0--'  osolous >       POT~~~~~~~~kilBLI
MRAO10



