Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2145 CHA
(National Afforestation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 20, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2145 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"MFO" means the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry and any successor 
thereto;
(b)
"CAF" means the Chinese Academy of Forestry, established as part of MFO;
 
(c)
"CRG" means a Central Research Group, established within CAF for purposes 
of carrying out research with respect to individual species of trees to be used in 
afforestation projects in China;
(d)
"Project Provinces" means the Provinces of Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong, 
Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Liaoning, Shandong, Sichuan, 
Yunnan, and Zhejiang;
(e)
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Project Province pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(f)
"Central PO" means the Project Office established within MFO;
 
(g)
"Provincial PO" means the Project Office to be established in each 
Project Province pursuant to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, Section II, paragraph (a);
(h)
"Local PO" means the Project Office to be established at the local level 
in each Project Province pursuant to Schedule 4, Section II, paragaph (b);
(i)
"AE" means an afforestation entity, including a state forest farm, 
collective forest farm, cooperative forest farm, or silviculture investment company, 
which participates in the Project;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(l)
"ha" means hectare.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two hundred thirty million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 230,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made, or if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
Page  3
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2000 and ending March 1, 2025. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2010 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project with the assistance of the Project Provinces, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause Project activities in each Project Province to 
be carried out pursuant to Project Implementation Agreements, acceptable to the 
Association, to be entered into
between the Borrower and each Project Province, including the terms and conditions set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce, or waive any 
Project Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit required to carry out 
Project activities in each Project Province available to such Project Province on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Page  4
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project 
shall be carried out in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to carry out the Project and to assist the Project 
Provinces in carrying out their respective Project activities, the Borrower shall 
maintain the Central PO with competent staff in adequate numbers and with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that all pesticides purchased as part of 
the Project shall be procured and handled in accordance with the Association's 
guidelines for pesticide use.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
(including the Project Provinces) responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with  the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any party to any Project 
Implementation Agreement shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement for each Project Province shall have 
been executed on behalf of all parties thereto; and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreements provided to the 
Association pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized 
or ratified by all parties thereto, and are legally binding upon the parties in 
accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
Page  6
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of
                            the Credit
                             Allocated              % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditure
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be financed
(1) Materials and           40,000,000          100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Plantation             165,500,000          52%
    establishment
    costs
(3) Consultants'             1,500,000          100%
    services, studies
    and overseas
    training
(4) Unallocated             23,000,000
                            __________
         TOTAL             230,000,000
                           ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  7
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "plantation establishment costs" means the cost of works and 
tools required for the establishment of a plantation under Part A of the Project, as 
determined on a per unit basis acceptable to the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 15,400,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after March 5, 1990.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:
(a)
to expand forest resources and reduce the gap between timber production 
and consumption;
(b)
to improve the quality of forest plantations;
 
(c)
to utilize financial and economic analysis of forestry investments for 
purposes of improving the efficient use of forestry resources;
(d)
to strengthen research and extension programs supporting plantation 
forestry and focus such programs on species performance;
(e)
to increase the productivity of planting stock; and
 
(f)
to establish and strengthen the organizational and managerial 
infrastructure to plan,  appraise, finance, implement and evaluate plantation 
programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Plantation Establishment
 
Establishment of approximately 985,000 ha of coniferous and broadleaf tree 
plantations in the Project Provinces.
Part B:
Research
 
Provision of technical assistance for purposes of establishing institutional 
arrangements for, and the carrying out of, research in the areas of silviculture, 
genetic improvement of tree species and
wood utilization.
Part C:
Improvement of Planting Stock
 
Carrying out improvements to seed production areas, large-scale production of 
clonal planting stock and a hybridization program.
Part D:
Institutional Support
 
Institutional support for a high-yielding plantation program, including 
introduction of an information and monitoring system.
Part E:
Environmental Management
 
Introduction of environmental guidelines covering, among other aspects, 
maintenance of biological diversity, species mix, pest control, soil and water 
conservation, fire prevention and monitoring, in high-yielding plantations.
Part F:
Forestry Sector Planning
 
The preparation and carrying out of pilot forest resource management plans.
Page  8
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, including fertilizer and pesticides, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages to 
permit bulk purchasing.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Scientific equipment and computers, up to an aggregate not to exceed the 
equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance 
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof.)
2.
Equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Contracts for imported tree seeds may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Works under Part A of the Project may be procured by force account or by other 
local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for pesticides and each contract estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
Page  9
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Project Provinces in carrying out the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of
Project Implementation Agreements
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Project Implementation 
Agreement shall include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
I.
General Provisions
 
1.
Each Project Province shall, and shall cause each AE within such Province to, 
carry out their respective activities under the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for carrying out their respective Project 
activities.
2.
Each Project Province shall take all measures necessary or appropriate to assist 
the Borrower in:
(a)
preparing the reports referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(b)
in complying with the provisions of Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) with respect to activities under the Project in such Project Province; 
and
(c)
in complying with the financial reporting requirements set forth in 
Article IV of this Agreement.
3.
Each Project Province shall ensure that:
 
(a)
the procurement of goods and works for plantation establishment and 
consultants' services shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this the Agreement;
(b)
each AE shall properly install, operate and maintain any equipment 
procured under the Project; and
(c)
that any pesticides procured under the Project comply with the provisions 
of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
4.
Each Project Province shall, in coordination with the Borrower:
 
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association 
with regard to the progress of carrying out activities under the Project by such 
Province and by AEs within such Province,
the performance of the Project Province under its Project Implementation Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by such Province of its obligations under its Project Implementation 
Agreement.
Page  10
II.
Project Management
 
For purposes of carrying out its respective activities under the Project, each 
Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain a Provincial PO with competent staff in adequate numbers and 
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
cause to be established and maintained at the local (county and 
prefecture) level, Local POs with competent staff in adequate numbers and with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association.
III.
Conditions for Plantation Establishment
 
1.
Each plantation shall be established and maintained in accordance with:
 
(a)
the Standards on Fast-growing and High-yield Plantations issued by MFO 
and with forestry standards and methods acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
the Environmental Guidelines for Afforestation issued by MFO and with 
environmental standards and practices acceptable to the Association.
2.
No site shall be selected for purposes of plantation establishment under the 
Project if such site: (a) contains trees with a canopy cover of more than thirty 
percent of the site area, other than existing plantations; (b) is of historical or 
cultural significance to the Borrower; or (c) is a habitat for rare plants or animals.
IV.
Cost-recovery Terms
 
Each Project Province shall cause the proceeds of the Credit it receives for 
purposes of carrying out its respective activities under the Project, together with 
counterpart funding from the Borrower, Project Province and local governments, to be 
made available to each AE participating in the Project under arrangements and terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include:
(a)
repayment by each AE of such funds in Renminbi, or in a percentage share 
of the volume of timber obtained at thinning and final harvest of timber;
(b)
repayment within a period of time which shall be equivalent to the 
average rotation length for the species to be planted;
(c)
payment of interest on all outstanding amounts at a rate acceptable to 
the Association; and
(d)
payment of reforestation and reinvestment fees established by the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program for the Project
The Borrower shall carry out the following, without limitation to the reporting 
requirements of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions:
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare model forest resource management plans (FRMPs) 
for three provinces acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish such FRMPs to the Association by June 30, 1991 for its review and 
comment; and
(c)
taking into consideration the comments of the Association, prepare by 
December 31, 1992, additional FRMPs, for all other Project Provinces.
2.
The Borrower, with the assistance of each Project Province, shall: (a) prepare 
and furnish to the Association by December 31 of each year, beginning on December 31, 
1990, an annual work and financing plan, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, for carrying out Part A of the Project in each such Project 
Province during the next calendar year; and
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association by March 31 and September 30 of 
Page  11
each year, beginning on March 31, 1991, a semiannual progress report on the carrying 
out of Part A of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain, as part of CAF, CRGs for 
purposes of researching tree species used in high-yield forests;
(b)
carry out research programs, acceptable to the Association, through the 
CRGs; and
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31 of each year, 
beginning on December 31, 1990, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the activities and
findings of the research programs for such year.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out a program, acceptable to the Association, for 
accelerated production of improved planting materials; and
(b)
Prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31 of each year, 
beginning on December 31, 1990, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of such
Program for such year.
5.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by September 30 of 
each year, beginning on September 30, 1990, a report on prevailing timber prices in 
each Project Province by species of tree and on the method of setting timber prices in 
such Project Province for the next calendar year.
6.
The Borrower shall, by November 1, 1990, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and comment:
(a)
a detailed plan for the establishment of about fifty pilot plantations 
for the testing and evaluation of forestry practices; and
(b)
a detailed plan for the planting of about 330,000 ha under Part A of the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to seventeen 
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($17,900,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  12
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  13
