Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24899
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-30240; SCL-3024A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 485 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
09/25/2002
Energy & Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 13.3 = US$ I (at SAR)
US$ I = Rs. 48.5 (at Loan Closing Date)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAT                      Catchment Area Treatment
CEA                      Central Electricity Authority
CERC                     Central Electricity Regulatory Commission
CMD                      Chairman and Managing Director
CWC                      Central Water Commission
DRB                      Disputes Resolution Board
GHP                      Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOI                      Government of India
HPSEB                    Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
IERR                     Internal Economic Rate of Return
NHPC                     Nathpa Hydro Power Corporation
NJPC                     National Jhakri Power Corporation
PAFs                     Project Affected Families
PAPs                     Project Affected Persons
PFC                      Power Finance Corporation
PIB                      Public Investment Board
PLF                      Plant Load Factor
POE                      Panel of Experts
PPA                      Power Purchase Agreement
QAG                      Quality Assurance Group of World Bank
R&R                      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
ReAP                     Rehabilitation Action Plan
RBI                      Reserve Bank of India
SEB                      State Electricity Board
SERC                     State Electricity Regulatory Commission
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I Kilovolt                   =       1,000 volts (V)
I Kilovolt ampere (kVA)      =       1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)        =       1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour              =       1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)        =       1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
I Million watt (MU)          =       1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)



INDIA - Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024A-IN
Implementation Completion Report
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Nathpa Jhakri Power Project in India,
for which Loan 3024 and 3024A-IN in the amount of US$485 million equivalent was approved on March
2, 1988 and made effective on August 31, 1988. The Borrower was India, acting by its President. The
Implementing Agencies for the project were the Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation (NJPC), the Himachal
Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) and the Central Electricity Authority (CEA). The project
comprised a 1,500 MW hydro generation component, the corporate strengthening of HPSEB, the
construction of transmission components in Himachal Pradesh, and technical assistance to CEA.
Due to force majeur delays in implementation of the hydro generation component, the original loan
closing date of December 31, 1997, was extended twice, firstly to December 31, 1998, and then to March
31, 2002. The project had not been completed by March 2002. However, the first of its six
turbo-generators is scheduled for commissioning in December 2002, and it is expected that implementation
will be completed in 2003. In November 2001, the Bank informed the Government of India that it would
be difficult to further extend the loan closing date. GOI did not request an extension, and the loan closed
on March 31, 2002. On August 22, 2002, the remaining balance of US$54.7 million in the loan account
was cancelled.
This ICR was prepared by Sunil Khosla (Task Team Leader), Judith Plummer (Senior Financial
Analyst), I. U. B. Reddy (Social Development Officer), Devesh Mishra, (Senior Procurement Specialist),
Tapas Paul (Consultant Environmentalist), Sunil Mathrani (Consultant Economist), Anthony Sparkes
(Consultant Engineer) , Alessandro Palmieri (Lead Dam Specialist), Deepti Sharma and Fowzia Hassan
(Program Assistants). Reviewed by Penelope Brook, Sector Manager (Energy), South Asia Region and
Kurt Schenk (Senior Power Engineer, East Asia and Pacific Region).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final project supervision mission in March 2002,
and was finalized during an ICR mission in April and May 2002. It is based on material in the project files
and site-specific information collected during the supervision and ICR missions. The aide memoire of the
ICR mission is provided as Attachment A. The implementing agencies contributed to the preparation of this
ICR by providing technical data, details of the cost estimates to project completion, financial records and
projections. The agencies' evaluation of the implementation exercise, NJPC's plans to complete, operate
and maintain the hydropower scheme, are provided in Attachment B.
Vice President:  Mieko Nishuimizu
Country Director:  Michael Carter
Sector Manager:   Penelope J. Brook
Task Team Leader:   Sunil Kumar Khosla






INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT - Loan 3024A-IN
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               14
6. Sustainability                                                                   17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 21
9. Partner Comments                                                                 23
10. Additional Information                                                         24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               37
Annex 8. Latest Update on Implementation Progress of the Project                    38
Annex 9. Attachment A. ICR Mission Aide-memoire                                     39
Annex 10. Attachment B. Contirbutions to the ICR by the Beneficiaries-NJPC, HPSEB   55
and CEA






Project ID: P009869                                      Project Nanie: Nathpa Jhakri Power Project
Team Leader: Sunil Kumar Khosla                          TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: September 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Nathpa Jhakri Power Project                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-30240;
SCL-3024A
Countrv/Departrnent: INDIA                                             Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector.' Power (95%); Sub-national government
administration (5%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/28/1986                            Effective: 08/31/1988         01/3011990
Appraisal:  11/30/1987                               MTR: 07/01/1994           03/31/1997
Approval: 03/02/1989                              Closing: 12/31/1997          03/31/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency.  GOI/NATHPA JHAKRI POWER CORPORATION; HPSEB AND CEA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Atilla Karaosmanoglu
County Manager:      Michael F. Carter                        Bilsel Alisbah
Sector Manager:      Vincent Gouarne                          Eugene McCarthy
Team Leader at ICR:  Sunil Kumar Khosla                       Alfonso Sanchez
ICR Primary Author:  Anthony E. Sparkes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Un]ikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   The proposed project was designed to (a) alleviate the acute shortage of electricity generating
capacity in the Northem Region of India, especially at times of system peak load, by developing 1500 MW
of renewable and versatile run of the river hydro-power at Nathpa Jhakri on the river Satluj in Himachal
Pradesh state; (b) reinforce and expand the transmission system of Himachal Pradesh; (c) modemize and
strengthen HPSEB operations, and its load and financial management capability; and (d) strengthen CEA,
CWC and other selected agencies in the planning, design and management of hydropower projects.
3.1.2   These objectives are judged to have been appropriate, as detailed in the following paragraphs.
3.1.3   In 1987, the Northern Region of India, was experiencing serious power deficits. Only about 75%
of the peak demand and 90% of the energy demand was being met and the utilities of the Northem Region
were resorting to electricity rationing. Poor supply voltages and periods of low system frequencies were
leading to increased costs to consumers, especially industries. It was also difficult to operate with
appropriate flexibility, the predominant thermal capacity to follow the varying peak demand, which
hydropower can usually more easily, efficiently and economically accommodate. To correct the imbalance
between thermal and hydroelectric sources, and to meet the increasing unsupplied demand, it was
appropriate to develop a large hydroelectric scheme. The 1,500 MW Nathpa Jhakri scheme was the
preferred component in the Northern Region's least cost long-term expansion plan.
3.1.4   However, if the scheme was being considered today, its positive contribution of limiting the
deleterious impact on the environment of India's inevitable power sector expansion, alongwith the
rmn-of-the-river scheme's minimal social and environmental impacts, especially as they could be mitigated
appropriately, would feature high in its appraisal. Nathpa Jhakri will generate into the Northern Region
grid about 7,000 GWh of electricity each year. In doing so, it will delay the necessity of the construction of
either coal or oil-fired thermal plant of a similar capacity, and will thus hugely reduce India's greenhouses
gas emissions, and positively impact on India's global warming effect. By displacing an equivalent sized
coal-fired thermal plant, Nathpa Jhakri will obviate the need for India to emit about 40,000 tons of SOx
emissions and about 20,000 tons of NOx emissions and about 6 million tons of carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere each year.
3.1.5   The second objective (see paragraph 3.1.1 ( b) ) of the project was to help HPSEB make efficient
use of its share of the Nathpa Jhakri output, through strengthening the transmission system. Also,
HPSEB's transmission system needed to be strengthened and expanded so that the objective of the
Government of Himachal Pradesh (GHP), to supply electricity to a large majority of the State's population,
could be achieved. In several locations HPSEB's system technical losses were high as a result of
transmission line overloads, resulting in poor supply voltages, frequent interruptions to services and
consequent financial losses. The system strengthening and expansion would address these shortcomings,
alongwith the objective of supplying more consumers with electricity.
The Northern Region of India now comprises of the states of Himachal Pradesh, Harana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttranchal, Jammu and
Kashmir, Delhi and the Union Territory of Chandigarh.
2The run-of-the- river Nathpa Jhakri scheme, with a small 60-meter high darn for meeting diurnal peaking requirement, is designed to generate
electrical power from India's renewable hydro resources. Its turbo-generators have been designed to ensure that they can be swiftly loaded and
un-loaded to meet large system demand fluctuations, making it ideal for meeting peak power requirements. A detailed description of the
hydro-scheme, which is the largest undertaken in India and one of the largest in the world, is contained at Annex I.
- 2 -



3.1.6  HPSEB's organizational structure was appraised to be generally satisfactory. However,
deficiencies in planning, operations and maintenance and accounting were identified, and the third objective
(paragraph 3.1.1 (c)) was thus to improve these shortcomings, as well as to improve HPSEB's outmoded
systems and office machinery. Appropriately, HPSEB commissioned a study to be performed by
consultants to advise it on these issues.
3.1.7  By 1987 only 16,000 MW of India's estimated 100,000 MW of hydro-potential had been
developed, and only a further 4,700 MW was under construction. The pace of India's hydroelectric
investments had been slow in the previous decade, and at the time of project appraisal GOI was striving to
increase the role of hydroelectric schemes in regional least-cost power developments. The project thus
appropriately included, to meet the objective at 3. 1.1 (d) above, a technical assistance component to train
staff of the Central Water Commission (part of GOI's Central Electricity Authority) in improving their
planning techniques and utilizing modem computer aided design methods.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Change in Objectives: No changes were made in the objectives during the implementation of the project,
and the project was only restructured at the margin as described in paragraphs 3.4.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised four main components:
(i)    Construction on the Satluj River in Himachal Pradesh of a 1,500 MW run of the river hydro power
scheme, including a 60 meter high dam, a 27 km long head race tunnel, including underground de-silting
chambers, an underground powerhouse, a resettlement and rehabilitation program for the population that
would be displaced, and a plan to protect the environment in the scheme area;
(ii)   Construction of about 500 km of 132 kV transmission lines and associated substations with a
capacity of about 184 MVA in the State of Himachal Pradesh, tools, transport and equipment for
construction, inspection and maintenance of the systems, a state load dispatch facility for the control and
operation of the Himachal Pradesh power system;
(iii)  Preparation by consultants of a ten-year transmission plan, and an Accounting and Management
Information Study to streamline HPSEB operations; and
(iv)   Implementation of a training program to strengthen the capabilities of CEA, CWC and other
selected agencies of the borrower to plan, design and manage hydropower projects, and associated works
including the acquisition of specialized office equipment, technical literature, computer hardware and
software, office space to install such equipment and the utilization of consultant services.
The Nathpa Jhakri scheme was appropriately suited to achieving the main objective of the project.
However, as will be described later in this ICR, the difficulties in regard to the size, location and
implementation of the Nathpa Jhakri hydro scheme were not recognized adequately at appraisal, and these
problems would eventually prove to be far greater than could be dealt with, and surmounted in the
eight-year implementation period indicated in the SAR
The other components, (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, were comparatively small and not overly complex.
The study to improve HPSEB's operations was appropriate, as was the technical assistance to be provided
to CEA. Both organizations had, prior to 1988, fallen behind in the use of information technology, and the
project objective to introduce computers into the organizations was timely.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
In December 1998 the Bank agreed to the proposal to finance from the loan an additional component,
which was to be a study of the development of the proposed Rampur hydro scheme downstream of Nathpa
Jhakri.
3.4.1  With Bank's prior approval, and in order to further reduce losses and improve supply conditions,
HPSEB decreased the length of the 132 kV lines and increased the capacity of the substations described in
paragraph 3.3 (ii) above. HPSEB, with the help of the loan proceeds, has erected 437 km of 132 kV lines
and 256 MVA of associated substations. The component of technical assistance to CEA was not revised.
3.4.2  In 1998, GOI proposed that US$10 million of the unallocated portion of the loan funds be used to
finance intemationally recruited consultants, who would study and report on the feasibility of developing
the proposed 700 MW Rampur hydro scheme, which NJPC proposes to develop downstream of Nathpa
Jhakri. Like Nathpa Jhakri, Rampur would be constructed entirely underground, and resettlement would be
minimal. The Rampur scheme would use the de-silted waters exiting from the Nathpa Jhakri scheme, and
thus no dam would be required. Both schemes also have no downstream riparian issues, as the Satluj River
is covered by the 1960 Indus Treaty between Pakistan and India, which entitles India to unrestricted use of
the waters of the Satluj. Also these are rmn-of-the-river schemes, and there is already an existing
downstream storage dam at Bhakra, so that their flows will not cause any perceivable change in the current
flow for riparian downstream of Bhakra.
3.4.3  In December 1998, at the same time as it agreed to GOI's request for a second closing date
extension, the Bank also agreed to the proposal to utilize some of the funds of the loan for the purpose of
studying Rampur. Terms of reference were prepared for the study, a short list of consultants was agreed
with the Bank, and they attended a site and pre-bid conference in March 2001. However, by loan closure,
GHP had not agreed that NJPC should execute the scheme, and no further action had been taken to start the
study.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
In 1998, in one of its earliest reviews, the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed the quality at
entry as part of a quality of supervision review of four South Asian projects which included the Nathpa
Jhakri project. QAG rated the quality at entry of the project as Unsatisfactory and this ICR agrees with
that finding. The QAG review recognized that 'the project entered the portfolio at a time (1989) when
good practice in the Bank called for sound project design, advanced procurement preparation, and good
provisions for institutional strengthening of the borrower and the implementing agency. Environmental
and social evaluation requirements were present in the Bank, but had not been developed to the high
profile that is an integral element of hydro preparation now (1998). Sector reform and restructuring
were not very high on the agenda yet, although the realization was dawning that a radical reform drive
may be necessary to break the logjam of poor performance of the power sector. ' The QAG review went
on to opine that 'an additional element was present in the relatively generous treatment of the readiness
of India projects. As this was a large borrower with many competent authorities and high project skills
(and the client leverage that went with it), there was an implicit understanding prevailing in the Bank
that this client would come through, even though some issues had not been dealt with at the time of loan
approval. Over time, this proved to have been a risky strategy', because 'the Nathpa Jhakri project was
not ready for approval even by the 1989 yardsticks'.
3.5.1  At loan approval, several issues were unresolved including:
- 4 -



3.5.2     The implementation agency, NJPC', set up specifically for the purpose of building the scheme, had
not been staffed, nor had Directors been appointed', and as an interim          measure HPSEB was nominated to
continue with the site investigation and design work that it had been working on since the 1960s. GHP
proposed at the time of the appraisal, and it was eventually decided that NJPC should take on to its staff
many of the staff of HPSEB, but on secondment terms, which would result in them having a special
privileged status in relation to the NJPC directly recruited staff (see paragraph 5.2.4).
3.5.3     The basic design of the plant' had still to be decided upon.
3.5.4     Bidding documents had not been prepared for the civil works contracts. These were estimated to
be worth about US$750 million. The SAR assumed that the four civil works contracts would be awarded
in November 1989. Because of the scheme's complexity and other issues', the awards were not completed
until October 1993.
3.5.5     There was a funding gap of about US$300 million.
3.5.6     The poor condition of the road to the site and especially to the dam, as well as road bridge
bottlenecks were not addressed in the SAR. These led to many delays in project implementation that arose
as a result of frequent landslides and traffic jams on the narrow and poorly constructed highway, which is
the only access to the site. It was only after the Bank had strongly encouraged NJPC to provide some of
the funds of the loan to GHP's Public Works Department' that the road conditions were improved but still
to-date only to a barely acceptable standard.
3.5.7     The resettlement component of the project was not adequately identified. It was not until five years
after appraisal that the Bank became aware of the full scale of the resettlement impacts. During project
preparation, there had been little specialist attention paid to this issue. In early preparatory reports 73
families were identified as being affected by the project, but the final figure was 480. The shortcomings
have since been addressed. A "good practice" remedial action plan to address the problems faced by the
most vulnerable sections of the affected population is close to full implementation (see paragraph 10.1).
3
In 1988 NIPC had been formed, under the Companies Act, as the GOI and GHP executing agency, to implement and operate the scheme. The
financing ofthe scheme was to be shared 25% by GHP and 75% by GO1, in the form of 50%/6 equity and 50% loan. GHP would receive 12% ofthe
scheme's output free of charge, and 22% of the output at the bus-bar rate. The remaining 66% would be available to the Northem Region utilities
through sales by NJPC.
It was only in 1992 that a Chairman was appointed for the Corporation.
During the appraisal of the project, Bank staff advised that in view of the heavy, silk-laden water that the Sutluj River carries for most of the year, the
type of turbines to be used should be studied. Several expert opinions were sought (including two sets of Bank-employed consultants, as well as the
scheme's independent Panel of Experts), but they did not immediately agree on the type of turbines to be used. A decision was finally arrived at in
November 1991, when it was decided that six 250 MW Francis Turbines should be used in the scheme design.
On the advice of the Bank, HPSEB decided to pre-qualify civil contractors, but the size of the project engendered much interest and debate, and the
exercise was complex. It was only in October 1990 that a shortlist, submitted by NIPC, was approved by the Bank. However, finalization of bidding
documents took time and they were eventually submitted to the Bank in March 1992, and cleared in the same month for issue. Bids were received and
opened in July 1992. Financing such a large project in the early 1990s when India was having low foreign exchange reserves was difficult, and
although the Bank helped to identify lenders, it prudently withheld its no objection to the award of the four civil works contracts until it was satisfied
that the electromechanical equipment contracts could be financed by NJPC. This delay also enabled the Bank, to be satisfied that suitable consultants
would be employed to advise NJPC on modem construction techniques. The civil works contracts were then awarded, and all four were in place by
September 1993.
'The funds were used for widening narrow curves and improving road quality, and strengthening or replacing existing bridges.
-5-



3.5.8  The SAR identified several risks to project implementation, including possible underground
excavation difficulties caused by unforeseen geological conditions, and the very magnitude of the project
itself. To keep these to a minimum, it was agreed that consultants would be employed to complete the
designs and help with supervision. The underground experience in building the upstream Bhaba
hydroelectric power station was also relied upon, as an indicator that the risks were at an acceptable level.
In essence, however, for a project of this magnitude, the risks in the SAR were understated, and the delays,
which might occur as a result, were not mentioned. It tumed out that the conditions of the Bhaba
underground excavations had been very dissimilar to those met underground in the Nathpa Jhakri tunnel.
This might well have been suspected, given that the two schemes were excavated in the young Himalayan
geology, where underground conditions vary rapidly over short distances, difficulties are hard to foresee,
and speeds of excavation are often erratic. As a result of the difficulties that were eventually encountered,
and despite the advice received from several consultants, at least two years of delay in project
implementation occurred (see footnotes 12 to 15 to the text).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite the lack of preparedness in the Nathpa Jhakri hydro component of the project, all the objectives of
the project have been or will be met and eventually with very few, if any, shortcomings, save that the cost
of Nathpa Jhakri's production will be far higher than expected at the time of appraisal, and the economic
benefits to the nation will have been substantially delayed. It was also the finding of the 1998 QAG review
team, that, from the perspective at that time, Nathpa Jhakri would achieve its project objectives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 The Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric Scheme: Due to the four-year delay at start up, and several
force majeure events (paragraph 4.2.2) amounting to a further four years, completion of implementation of
the Nathpa Jhakri scheme has been delayed by about eight years compared to the appraisal schedule. In
response to GOI requests, and under the extenuating circumstances that the delays were mainly outside of
the control of the borrower, the Bank agreed to the original loan closing date of December 31, 1997, being
extended twice, firstly to December 31, 1998, and then to March 31, 2002. The project had not been
completed by March 2002, and while the official commissioning schedule is for the period September 2003
to July 2004, an ambitious accelerated program is underway. Under this program NJPC hopes to
commission the first of the six units in December 2002, and the other five before December 2003.
Govemment of India did not request a further extension of the loan closing date, and the loan closed on
March 31, 2002
4.2.2 The four years of delays since construction began were caused mainly by force majeure events
(paragragh 5.1), and to a lesser extent by indecision (paragraph 5.2 and 5.3). The delays have been the
predominant cause of the large (233% in Rupee terms) increase in the cost of the scheme. Most of the
contracts were priced in foreign currencies, and losses in the value of the Rupee over the project
implementation period, and interest during construction mainly led to this increase. There have also been
significant unforeseen physical cost increases in some of the schemes components (also see paragraph 5.1).
As a result, the cost of the scheme and thus the cost of its output, both in energy and power terms, will be
higher than expected.
-6 -



4.2.3 The HPSEB Transmission Expansion Component: HPSEB completed the erection and
comrnissioning of the final 132 kV transmission line and associated substation of this component in
December 2000. The component has proved to be highly satisfactory. As a result of these network
improvements, HPSEB estimates that technical losses have been reduced by as much as ten percent in some
parts of its network, and that as a result of the investment, it is reducing losses overall by about 150 GWh
per year, worth about US$7.5 million (details of the improvements and the benefits are contained in
HPSEB's contribution to this ICR, which is annexed in Attachment B). Most importantly HPSEB has
been able to achieve the GHP objective that the state's population should all have the benefits of electricity.
Himachal Pradesh, with over 98% of its households, industry and commercial premises connected to the
electrical grid, is by far, the most prolifically electrified and consumer-metered state in India.
4.2.4 The HPSEB Corporate Strengthening Component: This component of the project proved to be
contentious. Although the organizational structure of HPSEB was described at appraisal as generally
satisfactory, the Bank, according to HPSEB, 'insisted' on a complex, lengthy study and advisory report on
the need to restructure the entity, as well as its accounting, management and operational procedures (see
paragraph 4.5.2). Many of the recommendations of the report were judged by HPSEB's Board to be too
complex and/or unnecessary for a relatively small utility, and it declined to adopt them. The ICR mission
reviewed the results of the study and concluded that the lengthy reports and complex advice provided by the
consultants was not appropriate for a utility as small as HPSEB. However, in response to the report's
advice, HPSEB did implement its recommendations on the revision of some aspects of its accounting
procedures. It has acted on the recommendations regarding the increased use of information technology,
and it carried out an in-house study to design schemes to fully computerize its operations. As a result
computers and appropriate programs are now in place for functions relating to HPSEB's Administration,
Financial Accounting Procedures, Technical System studies, Consumer Billing, Staff Records, Bank
Reconciliation, Pay Roll and Inventory Management Control.
4.2.5 The Technical Assistance To CEA/CWC Component: This component was highly successful,
and several hundred engineers and technicians received valuable overseas and India-based training, which
is being put to use in the development of India's hydro resources (see paragraph 4.5.3)
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric plant is still part of the least cost system expansion plan for the
Northern region. This is evident from the estimated levelized per-unit-cost of NJPC's output, which is
lower than most of other generation projects currently under construction. It is also pertinent to mention
here that of the other four hydro projects included in the least cost expansion plan at appraisal, only one
complete scheme and the first stage of another have been commissioned. The other two will take about 5
more years to complete.
4.3.2 The economic analysis of the Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric plant as presented in the SAR estimated
the EIRR to be 17%. The benefits included an estimate of the consumer surplus while the costs included
imputed transmission and distribution investments, even though these were outside the scope of the project.
Reproducing this method of analysis was considered to be both impractical as well as less meaningful than
a more focussed economic analysis based solely on the costs of the Nathpa Jhakri generation scheme.
Hence to facilitate comparability between the rates of return in the SAR and ICR, the ex-ante EIRR of the
hydroelectric scheme was first recalculated on the narrower basis. The scope of the scheme was defined to
include only the Nathpa Jhakri generation project. By so doing, the arbitrariness in
Equivalent to more than 50% of the prevailing average retail tariff in Northern India at that time.
- 7 -



apportioning a share of the investment costs in transmission and distribution investments undertaken by
other entities can be avoided9. Further, the transmission component has been executed by a different
corporation as part of the regional grid expansion plan and would also be used for transmitting generation
from other plants. Concomitantly on the benefits side, the then prevailing HPSEB bulk sale price for
out-of-state buyers was used to value the output from the project, excluding the consumer surplus at the
retail level. On this basis, the ex-ante EIRR was estimated to be about 17.5%. Details are provided in
Annex 3A.
4.3.3 The ex-post EIRR of the scheme was then calculated using the actual investments costs to date plus
the current estimate of costs to completion. NJPC does not yet have an authorized selling price for the
output from the plant, which could be used to value the project benefits. This will be determined on a cost
plus return on equity basis by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC). However, using the
current sale price of hydropower from HPSEB to Delhi (DVB) of Rs. 2.50/kWh as a proxy for the value of
the output, an ex-post EIRR of 14% is obtained (Annex 3B). Given that this value is based on the price for
power from existing rather than new plants, in a region,
which is supply constrained, it can be considered as a reasonable floor price for valuing the output from
Nathpa Jhakri. The main reason for the lower EIRR is the delay in construction.
4.3.4 This estimate of the ex-post EIRR on the hydro scheme is conservative because it make no allowance
for (a) future benefits arising from higher tariffs that NJPC may be authorized for power at peak times, and
(b) additional sales of secondary energy resulting from higher than expected water flows, because the
projected firm energy output of the plant is based on the 90% guaranteed level of output rather than the
average output level (which is about 300GWh/yr more).
4.3.5 The ex-post EIRR on the HPSEB transmission component of the project has been estimated at 26 %.
Details of the calculations are provided in Annex 3C. No separate economic analysis for this component
was provided in the SAR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 NJPC Finances: As a result of the institution of the Central Electricity Regulatory Comrnission in
India, NJPC can expect a "cost plus" tariff and is thus in little danger of failing to produce a reasonable
financial return provided power continues to be in short supply throughout the Northern Region. Should
dispatch be subject to merit order considerations then again NJPC would be in a good commercial position
because hydro stations are being given priority in the merit order by the regulator.
4.4.2 Approximate calculations based on the cost to completion associated with the accelerated cost
schedule, prepared by the Bank, indicate that the tariff would be some Rs. 2.98 per unit in the first year,
levelized to Rs. 2.64 per unit over a 35 year period after taking into account 12 % free power to GHP. If
the project does not complete for another six months then the tariff would be Rs. 3.14 per unit initially with
a levelized tariff of Rs. 2.69. This tariff compares favorably with other new hydro plants set to be
commissioned shortly.
The analysis in the SAR assumed that transmission and distribution investments needed throughout the Northem Region in order to absorb the energy
from Nathpa Jhakri would amount to 500/o of the investment in the hydro generation plant..
'°The current estimate of 6,650 GWh for the plant's net firm energy output was used in both the ex-ante & ex-post EIRR calculation.
- 8 -



Table 1 - NJPC's Key financial indicators:
A comparison to the SAR estimates, based on NJPC/mission estimates and the accelerated
cost/implementation schedule
(SAR estimates for FY97 to FY2001 - taken as years I to 5 of the project now equivalent to FY04 to FY09)
l_______  Year I          Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5
SAR     expected  SAR     expected    SAR     expected    SAR     expected   SAR    expected
Electricity Generation  1000  4185    4300     7050      7050      7050      7050      7050      7050     7050
(GWH) Average year
(per SAR)          _    __                                   _   _    _        _         _
Electricity generatio  1000  4185     4300     6732      6700     6732       6700      6732     6700     6732
(GW H)            _ _  _                                _  _  __                        _  _    _  _ _  _ _  _
Average (levelized)  68      264      68       264        68       264        68       264       68       264
tariff
Rs/kWh_____
Averge (levelized)  5.11     5.50     5.11     5.50      5.11      5.50      5.11      5.50      5.11    5.50
tarff
(equivalent US
cents/kWh)       _
Debtservice         1.3      10       1.2       1.7      1.7       1.8       1.8        1.9      1.9      2.0
coverage
Rate of retum on net  3%     0%       6%        9%       12%       4%        12%        5%       12%      6%
fixed                                           9         2         ~2                                     0
assets(,)
a) Net income as a percentage of net fixed assets.
b) SAR figures are given for an "average year" of generation whereas the tariff calculations are now performed per CERC norms based on a 90%/o
dependable year. The SAR estimate of a 90°/o dependable year was 6700 GWH - the difference between this and the current estimate is only one of
rounding. The latest financial numbers have been re-estimated based on an average year to be comparable with the SAR, but the differences in results
between this and the "90% dependable year" calculated outcomes are not significant.
4.4.3 In the SAR, NJPC was assumed (and covenanted) to achieve 12% return on net fixed assets. This
was selected as the estimate of NJPC's average cost of capital. However, since the appraisal report was
written, the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission has been introduced and prescribes the level of
return on equity and the tariff calculation for each station. This leads to lower levels of return for NJPC in
the initial years, increasing later. None-the-less the entity will be viable, and is expected to generate
substantial cash flows, which could be used to finance another project in the basin. The impact of any
future introduction of peaking tariff, as slated in GOI policy on hydro development, would further boost
NJPC's revenues.
4.4.4 HPSEB's Finances: HPSEB has failed since 1996 to adhere to its covenanted level of return. This
failure began when it was obliged to pay GRP for the 'free' power from the State's hydro resources (at rate
of tariff to the most subsidized consumer). Its finances have also suffered from the delay in the availability
of "free" power from NJPC and also the delay in the availability if its 22% allocation of NJPC power at
bus-bar rates. HPSEB's net generation, which was 1,481 MU during 1998-99, declined to 1198 MU
during 1999-2000, 1150 MU during 2000-2001 and 1146 MU during 2001-2002. These reductions in
self-generation were the results of lower than usual discharges at HPSEB hydropower stations caused by
poor monsoon rains, and the shutdown, which was needed to carryout de-silting at the Bhaba hydropower
station.These reductions resulted into substantial losses of revenue, about Rs.560 million in FY2000,
Rs.750 million in FY2001, and Rs.750 million inFY2002. Also arrears of revision of Pay
Scales/Pensionary benefits w.e.f. January 1, 1996 amounting to Rs. 1150 million had to be paid during
FY99 and FY2000. However, HPSEB is now forecasting (see Table 2 below) a return to its previous
profitable status with increasing power availability and increasing tariffs. In the light of its recent past
performance it seems unlikely that HPSEB's financial position will turn around this quickly, but some
improvement is likely as additional resources come on line. This forecast will also depend upon the
-9-



decisions on tariffs and tariff policy to be made by the new state electricity regulator, and GHP's future
policy regarding charging HPSEB for free power.
Table 2 - HPSEB's historic and forecast rate of return compared with that covenanted
FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FYOI FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07
Return on netfixed   -3%  3%  1%   4%  4%  5%   8%  5%  50    1   % 4%      7%  7% 5%   9%  18% 16%
assets
Covenant Target      3% 14%   4% 15% 15%   5%   7% 77%   % 7%  7%     7%  7% 17%   7% 17% 17%   7%
FY1990 to FY2001 actual / FY2002 to FY2007 forecast
4.5 Instititional development inpact:
4.5.1 Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation: When the project began (i.e. at loan approval), NJPC had not
been established or staffed, nor did the project include any institutional development component for NJPC. -
Yet, despite this and the many incidents of force majeure and impediments to project implementation, a
1,500 MW hydro-scheme has been built by NJPC's contractors, and will soon be commissioned by NJPC.
Thus from a fledgling beginning an institution has been successfully developed through a rigorous leaming
exercise of project implementation. NJPC is now capable in the close foreseeable future of being able to
implement further hydroelectric developments in the Satluj valley, such as the Rampur scheme. However
NJPC's operational and commercial capabilities are as yet un-proven, and it may require some assistance
in this regard.
4.5.2 HPSEB And The Project's Impact On The Himachal Pradesh State Power Sector: Here,
institutional impact has been moderate at most. At the time of the loan's approval, HPSEB was already
reasonably well established, and by the mid-i 990s was complying with the covenanted rate of return of 7%
(well in excess of the 3% return required by India's Electricity Act). This satisfactory state of affairs was
in part the reason why the HPSEB did not feel inclined to embark on power sector reforms, which other
States such as Orissa and Haryana entered into, because of the financial pressures on them in the early
1 990s. The state has only about 600 MW of demand (with little growth prospects), but has a huge hydro
potential (12% of which would be free to the State), and has a power surplus for most parts of the year.
HP is a net annual exporter of electrical energy. HP is close to being 100% electrified, and has almost no
agricultural or un-metered loads, which are such a serious problem in most other states, where reform is
needed. HPSEB has been keeping its receivables and payables to less than two months. Its financial
position improved consistently during the first half of the 1 990s, albeit with GHP subsidies in the form of
the on-pass of the 12% free power from the state's hydro-schemes. It consistently eamed reasonable
returns on its assets until FY 1998, when these subsidies were withdrawn. Reforms in the power sector in
the state of Himachal Pradesh have started, with the establishment of a State Electricity Regulatory
Commission (SERC). However, progress in terms of efficiency improvements and benefits to consumers
will need to be evaluated soon by the SERC. GHP's policy of encouraging private sector participation in
the development of hydro generating potential is yielding results with one 86 MW private power hydro
plant (Malana) already in operation and another 300 MW power plant at Baspa in an advanced state of
implementation.
4.5.3 Central Electricity Authority: The CEA/CWC technical assistance component enabled 56
engineers of CEA/CWC/CGI to receive training in consultants' design offices in Canada and the United
States, and 436 engineering technicians of CEA/CWC/CGI to receive training in India. The loan also
financed the procurement of specialized engineering equipment, technical literature, computers, printers and
computer-aided software for the design of systems and hydro-schemes, and enabled CEA to up-date the
techniques it had previously been using. In this well directed institutional development component, CEA
- 10 -



and its staff have benefited greatly from the technical assistance, and the training and experience gained,
which is now being used to research and design several new hydro-schemes in India, as well as providing,
through consultancy contracts, advice and design support for projects to be built in the neighboring
countries of Nepal and Bhutan.
Land Acquisition, Resettlement, And Environmental Protection
4.6 Some noteworthy accomplishments of the project include the establishment of an Environment and
Resettlement department, the introduction into the community of a mobile health unit, and the adoption of
corporate environmental and resettlement policy statements.
4.6.1 Resettlement: At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that the project would require 457 hectares
of land, out of which 47 hectares would be private land belonging to 73 land owners. The affected persons
were compensated in accordance with the state resettlement policy, but no resettlement plan was drawn up
in addition to payment of compensation. In response to Bank's supervision mission's recommendations in
June 1996, the borrower agreed to carry out a retrofit socio-economic survey and to prepare an action plan
to extend support for improving the living standards of affected people. The survey revealed that the
extent of land acquisition and resettlement impacts were higher than those estimates made at appraisal.
The total land required for the project amounted to 562 hectares, of which 224 hectares was private land
belonging to 480 title holders. Thus, the land acquisition and resettlement impacts were not adequately
identified at the time of appraisal. Eight years after the project has been appraisal, it became evident to the
Bank that full-scale resettlement impacts were much higher than the estimated figures. Based on the survey
results, a remedial Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) with an estimated budget of Rs. 71. 41 million was put
in place in April 1999.
4.6.2 Resettlement Implementation Performance: By loan closing date, the RAP implementation was
substantially completed; and except for the allotment of seven shop plots, all other entitlements had been
delivered to the eligible affected persons. These were in addition to the compensation paid in cash for lost
assets such as land, houses or shops. Because it has been so successful and so much appreciated by the
local population, NJPC has decided to continue to operate the mobile health unit after the hydro scheme's
construction is completed. NJPC will also continue with and strengthen its R&R department, and intends
to create a community development fund (see paragraph 21 of Appendix B of the ICR mission aide
memoire). The RAP implementation status is summarized in Annex 2 of Appendix B of the ICR mission
aide-memoire. The allotment of shop plots is being held up due to legal litigations.
4.6.3 Most of the planned activities have been completed, but the response for Income Generation Schemes
(IGS) is not very encouraging, as described in paragraph 5, Annex 2 of Appendix B of the ICR mission
aide-memoire. In addition to the implementatiorn of activities described in the RAP, NJPC also provided
opportunities so that about 25 students of affected families obtained admission into an English medium
school (Delhi Public School) established in the project township. Also NJPC has made it a policy to hire
vehicles (about 30) from PAPs to meet the requirement of the project. Similarly all petty contracts with
values below Rs. 0.3 million were exclusively reserved for the PAP labor co-operatives. Ten PAP labor
cooperatives were registered with NJPC. Contracts related to resettlement, construction of roads, general
maintenance works and land scalping were awarded to the PAP labor cooperatives. Based on the
implementation progress described above, it is concluded that the overall implementation of resettlement
program is satisfactory.
4.6.4 Transmission And Distribution Components: It was recognized at appraisal that the
implementation of the transmission and distribution works by the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity
- 11 -



Board (HPSEB) would have only minor social or environmental impacts because (i) the amount of land
required was very small; (ii) the routes of the lines were to run within existing tranmission line corridors, or
if new would be routed to minimize forest crossings. The total land actually acquired for the sub-stations
was about 16 hectares, and each transmission tower required only 30-100 square meters. Thus, the
landowners who were affected lost only a small part of their total land holdings. All the affected
landowners (1,236) were paid compensation (Rs. 17.81 million) for the loss of land for construction of
sub-stations and erection of transmission towers. In this process, no one was physically displaced, and
none of them have become landless, nor has their lands become uneconomical in size. Thus, no additional
measures were required except payment of cash compensation.
4.6.5 Good Practices In Resettlement: The successful and uninterrupted functioning for more than two
years of the mobile health unit is considered to be a very important contribution of the project to providing
health care benefits to the local population. On an average about 450 patients per month were treated and
provided with medicines in the project affected villages. The success of the resettlement activity
undertaken in this project is quite rare for India, and can be considered as one of the best examples of
resettlement implementation in Bank-assisted projects in India. It should be considered as an example for
other projects.
4.6.6 Impact Assessment Of Resettlement Implementation Outcomes: The preliminary results of an
independently performed Impact Assessment of Resettlement Implementation indicate that most of the
affected persons have utilized the compensation amounts for productive purposes, such as the purchase of
land or commercial vehicles, or made bank term deposits or used the funds for the construction of houses
(76%). The standard of housing of those compensated has improved with positive changes in terms of
increases in residence sizes, and in the quality and addition of separate facilities such as kitchens, bathing
facilities and toilets. There has also been an increase in household incomes and a shift in the employment
pattem from agriculture-based occupations to non-agricultural jobs. Most of the people welcomed the
land-for-land option, but the some complained that the quality of the land offered and accepted was not of a
similar quality to that given up. Many of the income generation schemes have not been as successful as
had been hoped for, since most of the beneficiaries used the funds for other purposes, and most were
unwilling to use the funds in what they perceived to be risky ventures. Those who did strive at the income
generation schemes have increased their additional household incomes by about Rs. 1,500 per month. The
mobile health unit was judged to be a useful asset to the community. The small infrastructure facilities,
such as the school buildings, play grounds, drinking water facilities, street lighting and approach roads are
judged to be significant positive impacts in enhancing the communities' access to several basic amenities.
4.6.7 Environmental Aspects: The project has several environmentally beneficial aspects, most notably
by generating the relatively 'clean' hydropower. The environmental impacts of the project, considering its
generation capacity, are low. The maximum submergence area is only about 22ha, that too all within the
riverbed; and the overall land take is 547ha.
4.6.8 SAR Targets & Good Achievement: No formal EA was carried out before appraisal of the project
(see also paragraph 4.6.11). The project preparation studies indicated that the project would not result in
any increase in water-bome diseases, would not impact any cultural property, and the variation in the
in-stream flows would not disrupt the local communities. The only substantial impacts that were forecast
were loss of tree plantation, and increase in soil erosion within the construction areas. It was estimated that
457ha of land would be required for the project, of which II 8ha of productive plantation area (but not
natural or reserve forests) would be acquired, and 10,517 trees would be felled. In addition, about 14.4ha
of Pinus roxburghi plantation (some 800 trees) would be felled for operating a quarry (under temporary
lease). About 160ha of compensatory plantation was planned (200,000 trees).
- 12 -



4.6.9 The compensatory plantation targets were revised, and overall 236ha of unprotected forest areas
were planted by the Forest Departmnent. Additionally, 205ha of unprotected forestland was planted, as part
of environment protection plan. The achievement with respect to the afforestation and environment
protection plans had been satisfactory. Details of this success are contained in the following Table.
Items                                             SAR Target              Achievement          Achievement
Compensatory Afforestation                        166ha of land           236ha of land (at a cost of  142%
Rs.32 million)
Environmental  Afforestatlon                      205ha of land           205ha of land            100%
protection works Land stabilisation (minor engineering works to  53.5ha + 3.65km of linear stretch 73ha + 7km of linear stretch  136%, 192%
prevent erosion and landslide/landstip)  _
Stabilisation of drains (minor engineering works 1S.15km of drains/'khad' + 15ha 27km of drains/ 'khad' +  149%, 100%
to prevent channel and guiley erosion)  of area              I Sha of area
Avenue Plantation                                 10500 no.               10500 no. (on 7ha of land)  100%
Restoradon o(Quarry                               One site (Pachada Quarry)  Nil (still in use, see paragraph  0%
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   4.6.10)    _ _ _ _ _ _
4.6.10 The overall quality of afforestation works is good, and there had been good maintenance. There are
instances of good measures to minimize erosion and to protect slopes in the project, particularly in the
township area, the worksite and the construction camps. Reuse of muck in construction of a number of
access roads and a school playground are also commendable initiatives. Avenue and other plantation in the
township area are also very satisfactory. The restoration plan for the Pachada Quarry has not yet been
implemented, because the quarry will remain in use until late CY2002.
4.6.11 Subsequent EA/EMP Targets & Slow Progress: In 1997, following the directives of the Ministry
of Power (which required the preparation of a catchment area treatment plan), the NJPC commissioned an
EA,and an EAJEMP was prepared in 1998. These were initiatives from the project, and were not subject to
Bank review. Although, the EA did not cover the entire project area, nor did it examine the substantial
induced development issues, the EMP pointed out major issues, such as the need to (a) properly dispose of
the very large volume of muck and construction waste, (b) implement a catchments area treatment plan, (c)
implement a fisheries development plan, (d) enhance the wildlife sanctuary located about 5km from the
project, (e) implement an environment monitoring plan, and (f) build and environment management
capacity within the NJPC.
4.6.12 Between 1998 and 2001, there was no noticeable progress in implementing the EMP, despite
repeated agreements with Bank supervision rnissions. The implementation time targets kept on changing. It
has only been since late 2001, when NJPC took a pro-active stance, that some progress has been made.
However, at the time of the ICR mission, the implementation of the EMP remained unsatisfactory.
Redevelopment of the borrow areas, treatment of the much disposal sites, environmental monitoring
program, and fisheries development, have been initiated. Implementation of the catchments area treatment
plan remains a major challenge (see the ICR Mission Aide Memoir, Attachment A to this ICR, for details).
4.6.13 In spite of the improvement of safety environments in the project over the years, the safety record of
the project is less than satisfactory"; the safety management system is not yet comprehensive, and no
training has been imparted since 1998. The exact impacts (such as number of trees cut) and details of
environment protection measures for the power evacuation component is not yet known, although the
impacts are expected to be small (refer paragraph 4.6.4). There are twelve tributary streams into the
Satluj river below the dam and before the power station with lean months discharge of 12.7 cumecs into
About 125 preventable casualties since start ofthe project (12 in 2000-01), in addition to the causalities due to events offorce majeure.
- 13-



the river, excluding the one at Shoulding whose discharge is being tapped into the tunnel. Although the
public irrigation departtment has informed that no water is being tapped from river bed for drinking
purpose, NJPC is holding consultative meetings with the local communities to ensure that their needs in the
deep unpopulated gorge of the river have been frilly understood, and to establish a plan for the operation of
the sluice gates in the event that they ever need to be opened to augment the streams and maintain a
minimum level of flow in the river bed.
4.6.14 Overall Implementation Performance: The SAR environmental targets have been implemented
satisfactorily, and the implementation of the EMP targets is proceeding. There are some good examples of
environment protection measures in the project, but the project could have fared better had there been a
better project preparation. Overall, the commitment to implement the actions agreed with the Bank
missions has been lacking. However, it must be recognized that since the project was prepared in the
1980s, environmental safeguard standards in the Bank and in India have been greatly strengthened, and the
Nathpa Jhakri project has had to catch up with these standards.
4.6.15 Given the potential environmental issues in the project, and with reference to the slow progress of
the agreed environmental management actions, the project will require continued environmental supervision
from the Bank for the foreseeable future. However, NJPC has informed the Bank that since loan closure,
and the ICR mission, the Catchment Area Treatment Plan proposed by the Himachal Pradesh Forest
Department has been agreed to by NJPC and is under implementation. A public workshop to discuss the
implementation of the Plan was conducted on June 29, 2002, by NJPC in association with Forest
Department. About 125 people attended the workshop and their suggestions for the effective
irnplementation of the plan were noted, and where feasible will be acted upon. Also since loan closure,
implementation of the envionmental monitoring plan has been initiated, and an Environment Engineer has
joined NJIPC and another engineer is expected to join shortly.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1    The civil works contracts for the Nathpa Jhakri scheme were let in 1993, and while excavation
began in eamest on the tunnel and the power station cavem, work at the dam site was delayed by a rock fall
12
.Since then there have been two force majeures events, where unprecedented floods have caused serious
delays in implementation".
In July 1993, as the civil works contracts were being awarded, a fall of a million cubic meters of rock occurred on the right bank at the proposed
location of the dam. This slide covered the proposed location of the inlet of the river diversionary tunnel, which would be required in order to divert
the river, when in seasonal (winter) low flow mode, to enable the dam foundations to be laid. NJPC had to re-locate the dam axis and the inlet, which
almost doubled the length of the diversion tunnel. Removal of the landslide took six months.
(i) In August 1997, an unprecedented flash rainstorm brought chaos to the site, with fifteen fatalities, and access cut offto much of the dam site and
its quarries for many months. (ii) On the night of August 1, 2000, the long since completed underground powerhouse cavem was inundated to its
crown by river water from very heavy flash floods, (estimated to be one in 65,000-year flood flow) caused by torrential rainfalls in the upstream
reaches of the Satluj River, linked possibly with the overflow of a glacial lake in China. Nathpa Ihakri, as is the intemational practice for such
schemes, had been designed to withstand a one in 10,000 year flood. Twenty contractors staff were drowned. The equipment and plant, which had
already been installed, was entirely destroyed and had to be re-manufactured, in Europe and elsewhere overseas.
- 14 -



5.1.2   Difficulties in the excavation of the tunnel caused delays and increases in costs". Also heavy rock
bolting exercises were required, that were not envisaged when the project was designed". However, these
problems might have been forseen had greater investments in up-front geological investigations could have
led to the relocation of the dam axis and the avoidance of the problem caused by the rock fall. Such
investigations been made, which could have more accurately forecast the need for the rock bolting, foretold
of the tunnel difficulties and led to more realistic estimates of the costs, but the- difficulties would
nevertheless have had to be overcome. The effects of the unprecedented floods were outside of GOI's or
NJPC's control, and these led to long delays with heavy consequent project cost increases.
5.2 Factors generally siubject to government control:
Soon after construction began, Bank missions pointed out to GOI and GHP, that delays in implementation
would cost the project Rs. 3 crore (US$ 1 million at that time) per day of delay. Yet, delays, which could
have been prevented by GOI and/or GHP, occurred continuously, as illustrated in the following
paragraphs.
5.2.1   Extensive delays resulted from the poor condition of the road (the National Highway 22) to and
through the site of the scheme. GOI and GHP could have helped prevent or reduce these by early
reconstruction or upgrading of the road, and by paying continual attention to its maintenance.
5.2.2    Many delays were caused because the owners of the scheme, GOI and GHP, would not give
appropriate authority to the Chairman of NJPC, who thus had to take many minor issues to the Board for
resolution. Bank missions drew attention to this over several years, and the issue was eventually addressed
in 1997, when the Chairman was given fiscal authority for decisions on issues with values up to Rs. 25
crore.
5.2.3    Delays were also caused by continual vacancies in NJPC's management team of Chairman and
Directors. Despite the supervision missions and the Bank making repeated requests that GOI address the
problem, it failed to fill these positions, when they became vacant. There has not been a single period since
NJPC's inception when the team has been fully staffed. Each position has been vacant in turn for many
months, and in some cases years. This led to overwork and gaps in technical/managerial expertise, where
the Chairmnan or a Director always had to act in more than one post, causing slow decision-making and
inevitably costly delays to project implementation.
5.2.4   Delays also occurred in the implementation of the scheme because of the animosity between the
staff, which was seconded to NJPC from HPSEB and the recruited NJPC staff. It took over ten years for
GOI and GHP to resolve a situation, which should have been prevented when it had been foreseen at the
very inception of the Corporation in 1989.
5.2.5   The incentive/disincentive system, which is in practice in the public sector corporations, including
(e.g. NJPC), encourages decision makers to avoid taking decisions or if possible delay by involving as
many participants as possible due to the fear of public scrutiny or the vigilance system.
Construction of the 27 krn long headrace tunnel connecting the small reservoir to the underground power station took about eight years instead of the
five years envisaged at appraisal. This was mainly because of the difficult rock (including shifting underground sand, and squeezing rocks) and
underground conditions (hot water from local geo-thermals) that were met with along the route. At appraisal the risk of meeting such conditions was
identified as "at an acceptable level', when indeed it should have been identified as a 'practical certainty", given the location of the scheme in the
young Himalayan rock formadtons.
Massive, costly and time-consuming rock-bolting exercises had to be performed to retain the steep, unstable rock slopes at the site of the dam and
tunnel intake, and at the tailrace. Several hundred 45 meter-long 200 ton capacity rock anchors had to be installed.
- 15 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  A factor, which caused much delay, and which was in the control of NJPC was the lack of speedy
decision-making. Bank mission aide memoires repeatedly drew attention to this problem, which was
prevalent right through NJPC, and included the Board through management down to the level of the site
engineers. Such tardiness was the cause for many complaints by the civil works contractors, whose works
were held up on several occasions as a result. However in early 2001 the implementation of the project
was assigned to the new CMD. Changes in project management were effected, delays in decisions-making
ceased, NJPC acted promptly on advice provided by Bank missions, and implementation accelerated
markedly.
5.3.2  NJPC was initially reluctant to accept the decisions which the Dispute Review Boards (DRBs)
handed down, and often, withheld payments. Neither course of action is allowed under the contract
conditions. Eventually NJPC began to realize the importance and usefulness of the DRBs, abided by the
decisions handed down, and made payments promptly. This led to healthy improvements in the
contractors' cash flows, which is a vital ingredient in successful civil engineering, and improved relations
on site, all of which helped speed up implementation progress.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  In the initial stage, the Bank helped GOI and NJPC in their efforts to arrange financing for the
project. The exercise was eventually completed in 1992, and the financing gap was closed with a loan
provided by a consortium of European banks and the Nordic Investment Fund. By 1997, the difficulties
and delays, described in paragraph 5.1, had resulted in substantial increases in the extent of the civil works,
escalation of contract prices and large increases in interest during construction, all of which led to an
increase of 233 % in Rupee terms or an increase of 19 % in dollar terms (See Annex 2 of this ICR, and
also Project Cost to Completion Table, Annex 1 of the ICR mission Aide Memoir - Attachment A to this
ICR). When the loan closing date was first extended (end 1997), the Bank made it a condition of the
extension that funds be identified to finance the increase in project costs. NJPC arranged with India's
Power Finance Corporation (PFC) a loan of Rs. 1,118 crore for this purpose.
5.4.2  In 1997, GHP began to fall behind in its equity contributions to the Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric
scheme. Responding to the Bank's concems, GOI decided that it would make good any shortfalls in GHP's
contribution, and suitable budgetary arrangements were made to this effect for FY2000 onwards in GOI's
Ninth Plan. Also, in contravention of its covenant with the Bank, GHP did not pass on to HPSEB the
proceeds of the loan, which the Bank has disbursed on behalf of HPSEB for its procurements during the
loan period. As a result HPSEB had to arrange loans from local banks at higher interest rates than those
agreed to between GHP and HPSEB in the on-lending agreement related to the proceeds of the Bank loan.
5.4.3  Owing to the premature approval of the loan, GOI incurred unnecessary costs in the way of
commitments charges to IBRD on a loan, which remained practically unutilized for four years. This also
resulted in loan repayments beginning well before disbursements had been completed and before NJPC had
begun to generate any income.
T The Disputes Review Boards (DRBs) were introduced into the civil works contracts, to help avoid lengthy disputes and costly arbitration. DRBs
were set up for each of the contracts, with an independent representative elected by the owner, and one elected by the contractor, and a chairman
chosen by the two representatives. The contract conditions stipulated that DRB decisions were binding on both parties for disputes with values up to
Rs. 50 million.
- 16 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric scheme is judged to be Likely for the following
reasons:
6.1.1  Technical: Even thought the plant is not yet complete, all major technical challenges in
construction have been overcome. As it is the raison d'etre for NJPC's existence, the plant is sure to
receive adequate technical surveillance from NJPC's engineering staff. Some uncertainty still exists
regarding the risks of abrasion to the turbines from water-borne solids, but at worst these would lead to
higher costs/lower output rather than endanger the viability of the plant.
6.1.2 Economic: The Northern Region is critically short of power at peak times and there is
virtually no risk that the plant's output at peak times cannot be absorbed. During off-peak
periods, the plant's low marginal production cost will ensure that for dispatching purposes it will
always be placed up high in the merit order of plants. So there is very little risk of NJPC being
forced to spill water due to lack of demand during off-peak periods.
6.1.3  Financial: Despite its high initial cost (in absolute terms), Nathpa Jhakri is a financially robust
project, thanks to its relatively attractive output price in comparison with other new plants under
construction (both hydro and thermal) in Northern India and because of its low gearing. The 50/50
debt-equity ratio means that its cash flow will be sufficient to enable it to comfortably meet its operating
expenses and debt servicing even if several of its future client SEBs turn out to be poor payers. Once debt
service has been cleared, in about a decade's time, it is expected to be financially very sound.
6.1.4  Environmental: The Nathpa Jhakri scheme is environmentally sustainable because the absence of
any significant water storage eliminates many of the usually expected problems associated with large hydel
projects. Its production will continue to substitute for much dirtier coal-fired thermal power in India's
plain states where poor air quality and land degradation are serious issues today. Nathpa dam is a concrete
gravity structure founded in sound rock mass, and as such has been rated safe by several dam review.
Flood handling facilities corresponding to the levels associated with a flood likely less than once in ten
thousand years, including the flushing of sediments out of the reservoir pool, are considered adequate. The
induced developments are being addressed through the catchment area treatmnent plan, implemented by the
Forest Department. The Government of Himachal Pradesh has set up a Satluj River Basin Development
Authority to consider and manage the cumulative impacts of other projects, up and downstream.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  Attachment A to the ICR mission aide-memoire (appended to this ICR) provides details of the
status of implementation of the various components of the project as of May 2002. The HPSEB and CEA
components have long since been completed, and both organizations are already benefiting by the
investments made (see paragraphs 4.2.3 and 4.5.3).
6.2.2  The status of implementation of the Nathpa Jhakri scheme has advanced to the stage where NJPC
expects to begin commissioning and thus putting into regular commercial operation the first unit in
December 2002. Annex 8 provides latest update on the implementation progress. The second unit is
expected to be commissioned in February 2003. The plant of these two units was least affected by the
August 2000 flood. NJPC's income, generated by these two units in CY 2003, will be about Rs. 1,000
- 17-



crore (US$200 million). NJPC expects to complete the commissioning of the other four units before the
end of 2003. Financing is in place to enable the project to be completed via this schedule. Should it
overrun, by, say six months, NJPC has taken the prudent anticipatory step of applying to GOI for
permission to borrow from local sources to meet the higher completion cost that this would imply (i.e. to
bridge the estimated funding gap of Rs. 380 crore, which would arise mainly from increases in interest
during construction charges). NJPC has informned the Bank that it is confident that local sources of
financing will be available to bridge the funding gap.
6.2.3  The exercise to recruit and train staff to operate and maintain the Nathpa Jhakri dam and power
station was begun early in CY2002, and its progress is sufficiently advanced to ensure that the scheme will
be suitably staffed, and that they will be in a timely position to take part in the commissioning exercises and
to take-over the plant as the contractors release it for commercial operations. A staffing plan was also
prepared and approved by the Board; and operations manuals are being drafted. Besides NJPC would also
have the advantage of supplier's skilled team of engineers at site, who would be working on the
commuissioning of balance units. A new commercial department has been set up to deal with the complex
exercise to negotiate and sell power to the neighboring states. In 2002, NJPC started to prepare a tariff
proposal to the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. NJPC hopes to have completed these two
exercises in advance of the first billing date, which it expects will be in February 2003.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Extracts from the QAG review are included in paragraphs 3.53 and 7.2 to address the issue of project
preparedness at Board presentation, and the quality of supervision. However the QAG team had other
concems. ... the relaxed attitude towards going forward with operations that evidently were not ready for
approval reflects an excessive trust of management in the ability of the client to catch up with
preparation and implementation, even in the case of technically and institutionally complex projects.
Serious problems arising early in the NJproject caught management's attention only belatedly, and the
project was flagged as unsatisfactory too late in the game . On the whole, [the project was] highly
vulnerable to management misjudgments. Good delivery of individual staff work and task management
could not compensate for the lack of direct management intervention. These concems refer especially to
the fact, as detailed in this ICR, that the project was not ready when it was put forward for financing by the
Bank, and that the Bank should have required, prior to negotiations, that (i) much more work be performed
to better prepare the project, including the design of the plant, and the preparation of the bidding
documents; (ii) an appropriate staffing arrangement should have been established in NJPC, with Directors
and full time CMD in place, and an appropriately recruited staff employed (not seconded) by NJPC; (iii)
that NJPC head office should have had its location at Shimla from the outset; (iv) the road to site be in a
much better condition than it was; (v) that a plan to address the displaced be in position; (vi) a plan to
mitigate the environmental impacts be in place.
In 1998, the Bank's Quality Assurance Group carried out a review of the quality of supervision of four South Asia projects, including the Nathpa
Ihakri project.
- 18 -



7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The QAG review's conclusion and the finding of this ICR are that the project was unsatisfactorily
prepared. However QAG concluded that implementation supervision by Bank staff was Satisfactory and
included the following commentary. In general, supervision of large hydro projects primarily focused on
the construction aspects, and on the necessary monitoring of the standardfinancial covenants. The
construction focus was well chosen in Nathpa Jhakri, as the initial lack of a strong implementation
agency was a tragic initialflaw that had to be rectified as a high priority. The technical and engineering
supervisions by the Bank's engineers has met highest standards in these regards. The missions' advice
and recommendations were generally appreciated and often heeded by the clients. Especially Nathpa
Jhakri exhibits best practice features.
7.2.2  It is evident from the project files that during the four-year period following loan approval, Bank
staff provided strong support in the exercises, which should have taken place before project appraisal.
These included (i) the identification of financing to bridge the funding gap, (ii) the review exercises to
decide on the type of turbines which should be used, (iii) the establishment of NJPC, (iv) the establishment
of the Panel of Experts, (v) the preparation of the bidding documents, and review of the pre-qualified civil
works contractors, (vi) the employment of internationally recruited engineering consultants, and (vii) the
review of the bid evaluations and recommendations of contract awards made by NJPC.
7.2.3 The Bank did well (i) with its efforts to convince NJPC to use internationally recognized
consultants; (ii) to include conditions in the civil works contracts for Disputes Resolution in the form of the
DRBs; (iii) in helping NJPC and GOI identify sources of financing to bridge the funding gap; and (iv) in
convincing NJPC to pre-qualify civil works contractors.
7.2.4  The frequency of Bank missions, which each visited site for several days, increased after the civil
works contracts were awarded and implementation began in earnest. Missions, usually three per year, were
staffed appropriately (see paragraph 7.1.7), and high quality advice was provided to the beneficiaries. A
review of mission aide memoirs indicates that implementation progress was well reported. During missions
and also between them, problems, some with great complexity, were identified and solutions recommended.
Mission staff made many contributions which resulted in project implementation progress. Save for the
force majeure events, the contribution made by Bank staff missions during the last five years have been a
significant help in keeping the project's progress close to the implementation schedule agreed to in 1997, at
the time of the mid-term review
7.2.5  Bank missions have from time-to-time included cross regional support from staff with expertise in
the specialist fields of project monitoring and the application of FIDIC contractual conditions, dam safety,
civil engineering construction, three dimensional stress analysis; as well as adequate staffing from the
South Asia Region, including financial analysts, engineers, sociologists, and specialists in procurement,
financial management and environmental protection. However, despite the strengthening in the Bank of
environmental protection standards, the project was not provided with appropriate supervision from
environmental protection specialists, and the first of these took part in a supervision mission only in July
1994. Their participation in missions after this date also was too infrequent. (Annex 4).
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1  The QAG team's view was that the Bank performed poorly in preparation but well in supervision,
describing "an uphill struggle for supervision for several years, catching up with inadequate project
- 19 -



preparation "
7.3.2  The strong implementation supervision described in this ICR (and by QAG), cannot compensate
for the shortcomings described in paragraph 7.2.1, and the too-early loan proposal and approval.
Therefore this ICR concludes that overall the Bank's performance was Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The HPSEB and CEA components were well designed and appropriate. The Nathpa Jhakri component was
appropriate (see paragraph 3.1.2), and its design was well conceived. However, GOI should have ensured
much earlier than was the case: (i) that HPSEB had decided on the type of turbines to be used, and thus
have designed the layout of the civil works of the power station, and prepared the bidding documents; (ii) as
a part owner of the scheme, that an appropriate staffing arrangement had been established in NJPC, with a
Chairman and Directors in place, and an appropriately recruited staff employed (not seconded) by NJPC;
(iii) that full financing for the project was tied up; (iv) that NJPC's headquarters be located at Shimla, and
not Delhi, from the outset; (v) that the road to site for such a huge project be in a much better condition
than it was; (vi) that a plan was in position to address those who were to be affected by the project; (vii)
that a plan had been prepared to mitigate the environmental impacts.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Both GOI and GHP, joint owners of the scheme, failed to support the scheme's management in the speedy
resolution of issues. (i) It was only in 1997 that proper fiscal authority was given to the Chairman (see
paragraph 5.2.3), but by then delays costing many hundreds of crore Rupees had been caused to the
project, because the Chairmen lacked this authority, and had to revert to the Board for almost every
decision that was made. (ii) When the disquiet between the seconded staff from HPSEB and the directly
recruited NJPC staff surfaced, the disparities should have been corrected immediately, instead of being
allowed to disrupt the smooth implementation of the scheme. (iii) The road to site was not adequate at the
start-up of the project. Despite appeals from NJPC and the contractors and, on the strong
recommendations of the Bank, the transfer of project funds to HPPWD, the road to site has never been
appropriately upgraded or maintained. (iv) Appointments to the vacant posts of Chairman and Directors
were delayed for months and in one case, years. (v) GHP did not support in a timely fashion, NJPC in its
plans adequately to compensate people affected by the project, nor in its plan to mitigate environmental
impacts. (vi) GHP fell behind in the provision of its equity contributions and did not fully pass on
reimbursements received against this loan to HPSEB. The intervention of GOI has helped ensure that the
project remains financed to project completion. (vii) In 1998 the Bank agreed to GOI's proposal that some
of US$ 10 million of the loan be used to appraise, design and prepare the bidding documents for the
proposed Rampur hydroelectric scheme. GOI did not proceed with the study, and the funds were not used.
Thus, the chance was lost to obtain competitive rates of construction from the contractors before they
demobilized.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
HPSEB performed well, and its components of the project were completed on time and under budget, but
since 1997 it has failed to meet it financial covenant to make a retum of 7% on its net fixed assets. CEA's
performance was also satisfactory and under budget, despite some delays in the exercise to evaluate the
proposals from the consultants who provided the technical assistance. NJPC's performance was generally
satisfactory, although it could have done better by making speedier decisions in resolving outstanding
issues with contractors, especially during the initial implementation period, which would have helped
reduce some delays in the completion of the project. The positive impact of speedy decision making by
NJPC's Chairman and Directors in the last eighteen months is commendable, and very evident in the
- 20 -



resulting acceleration in implementation during the period, which has enabled commissioning of the first
unit to be scheduled for completion in 2002. This acceleration is further illustrated in the progress very
recently made (see Annex 8, which is the latest update on implementation progress of the project ).
However, while NJPC performed well in meeting the SAR agreed environmental and social requirements, it
was slow in implementing actions, which were agreed on environment management issues. It was also slow
in responding to mission advice to take actions, which would have resulted in commercial and financial
preparedness.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Nathpa Jhakri project is expected to be generating 500 MW of electrical power for consumers in the
Northern Region of India by January 2003. The project is likely to be completed in December 2003, when
it will generate 1,500 MW. By then fifteen years will have elapsed since loan approval. However, nearly
eight of these years can be accounted for by a four year period prior to the award of the civil works
contracts, when implementation eventually began, and at least three, if not four years, caused by force
majeure events. No institutional development component for NJPC was included in the project, and at
project start-up NJPC's facilities were primitive, with little or no communications and no modem IT
equipment. It is to NJPC's credit that the scheme is nearly completed at the time of writing this ICR.
NJPC's Directors, its designers, engineers and site staff have, with the contractors, built the largest
hydroelectric scheme in India, and in less time than most other large hydroelectric schemes have been built
in the country. Viewed in this light, NJPC's achievement must be judged as creditable. It is probable that
NJPC's performance in the ensuing years would have been judged highly satisfactory, if the Corporation
had received the full support of its two owners, GOI and GHP. This lack of support, and the consequent
failures in decision-making, earns the project an Overall Borrower rating of Unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The Bank and its staff, during the last fifteen years have learned and internally and externally broadcast
many of the lessons that the Nathpa Jhakri project's successes, and delays have illustrated. In the
following paragraphs this ICR concentrates on those related to environmental and social impacts, and those
related to project preparedness and implementation.
8.1    Environmental and social impacts: Run-of-the-river, almost entirely underground hydro projects
can have minor negative environmental impacts and huge positive environmental benefits. In helping to
meet India's inevitably increasing demand for electricity, Nathpa Jhakri will obviate the building of a
similarly sized thermal power station without any of the associated damaging atmospheric environmental
impacts (see paragraph 3.1.2). This, together with the small amount of people affected by run-of-the-river
hydro projects, and where such displacements are limited but sympathetically dealt with, can make them
very attractive, especially if, as in the case of Nathpa Jhakri, the negative environmental impacts are
mitigated to minimum levels.
8.2    However, vigilant supervision by the Bank of the treatment of safeguard issues is required to
ensure that the population affected by a project receives benefits from it. The impacts and outcomes of
continued Bank supervision, belated though it was, is clearly visible in this project. For instance, except
payment of cash compensation, no major resettlement activities were implemented during the first eight
years of the Bank supervisory period when there were no specialists paying attention to it. However, as a
result of continued Bank supervision by specialists in the last five years, a number of key resettlement
activities were successfully implemented. These included the socio-economic surveys, the Resettlement
Action Plan, the establishment of Resettlement Department, the adoption of a corporate policy statement,
the delivery of key entitlements and support mechanisms (employment in the project, land for land,
- 21 -



allotment of shops construction of houses for resettlement, income generation activities, small
infrastructure activities and introduction of mobile health units). Thus, the continued supervision of social
safeguard aspects of the project by specialists will likely ensure that the population affected by the project
receives benefits from it.
8.3    But supervision by Bank staff is not enough in itself. It needs to be fully supported with effective
management by the project owner, and this support needs to be engendered early in the project cycle. For
Nathpa Jhakri it was missing for a decade - until 2001, when new managers were finally appointed, who
realized the importance of the various goals, and helped unsure their achievement
8.4    Pre-conditions for project appraisal should include commitment to the project by other agencies
and the establishment of a framework for the resolution of inter-agency issues. The Forest Department
took three years to prepare a draft catchments area treatment plan, and even after this lengthy period of
preparation, the draft is not of a high quality. The Fisheries Department submitted a fisheries development
plan in 1999, and NJPC deliberated over the plan for more than two years. The road agencies constructed
poorly designed roads, which have resulted in frequent stoppages of the work at the project and thus
contributed to costly delays. Better co-ordination, and commitment from the line agencies, as well as
pro-active initiatives from NJPC would have resulted in minimizing the environmental impacts as well as
reducing the delays.
8.5    It is now recognized that the quality of EAs and EMPs are major determinants for successful
implementation of environment management actions. Even if the EA/EMP for the Nathpa Jhakri were not
part of Bank loan conditions, the Bank should have reviewed these, as soon as the Bank realized their
importance, which must surely have been very early in the project cycle. Such a review, in the early 1990s,
would have helped subsequent supervision missions in their efforts to have them implerrented. The Bank's
current safeguard policies, now in place, would have done much to bring earlier attention to these social
and environmental considerations had they been in place when the project was appraised.
8.6    Project preparation and implementation: Anticipatory project preparation pays high dividends.
Indeed such preparation is essential if a project, especially of the magnitude of Nathpa Jhakri, is to get off
to a reasonable start. Investigations need to have been completed, and in the case of a hydroelectric
scheme, the results of investigations, drilling and drifts, need expert analysis, so that designs (and the very
location of the scheme) can be studied and optimized. Early investments repay their costs many-fold.
Also, and rather obviously, an implementing agency needs to be in place. If it needs to be staffed with less
than experienced managers and staff, then a training program needs to be carried out, and institutional
development investments need to be made very early in the project cycle. Procurement, whether funded by
the Bank or not, needs to be well in hand by loan approval. Estimates of the project costs can be quite
accurate if bids have been received for the larger packages, and thus surprises are kept to a minimum, and
financing can be arranged accordingly.
8.7    Where risks are identified, they should be carefully analyzed by experts knowledgeable in the local
(underground/geological) conditions. In the appraisal exercise risks must not be downplayed, and their
impacts should be understood and if possible anticipated. It is probable that, had the geological difficulties
and the possibility of years of resulting delay been recognized prior to the conclusion of the designs,
different methods of construction and excavation would have been planned for, and the delays, which cost
the project a million dollars a day, would have been reduced.
8.8    Good preparation should also anticipate the need for proper commnunication with the site of the
works, including adequate roads and telecommunications links, as well as site supplies of water and power.
- 22 -



Project cost estimates should include for their upkeep and maintenance, and their replacement when phased
out by newer equipment, which must be expected in the case of long gestation projects. The project entity
should take full responsibility for road preparation and maintenance, and allow for this in the project
implementation costs accordingly.
8.9    Enthusiastic project ownership is essential. Despite Nathpa Jhakri being owned by GOI and GHP,
it had no permanent or even semi-permanent representative in either organisation, who was sufficiently
empowered to get decisions made. And there is an underlying reason why delays in decision-making were
so prevalent. Decision-making involves risks. Speedy decision-making often involves greater risks. The
civil service is not a good environment for risk taking - even when successful there are no personal rewards
to be gained, and mistakes are often personally costly, because the civil service usually expects not to have
to take speedy decisions. Indeed it expects decisions, after lengthy deliberations, to be right every time,
never mind that in the case of Nathpa Jhakri delays were costing the scheme at least a million dollars a day.
In many cases during Nathpa Jhakri's implementation, decisions makers were vilified, despite proving to
have been correct and in the process saving enormous expenditure and speeding up implementation. The
lesson is that ownership, speedy decision-making and risk-taking need to be engendered by central and state
governments. The costs of delay are so great in large projects, that if such attributes cannot be engendered
in civil servants, then Government should make every attempt to involve the private sector in the part or
full ownership and implementation of large schemes of this kind.
8.10   A unique and positive lesson to be leamed from the Nathpa Jhakri experience is how useful the
Disputes Review Boards (DRBs) became, in quickly resolving disputes, which in turn helped accelerate
implementation progress. In the case of the Nathpa Jhakri project, the DRB decisions were mandatory in
disputes with value up to Rs. 50 million (a somewhat similar feature has been introduced into the Bank's
May 2000 version of the Procurement of Works document), and when paid out for by NJPC, immediately
improved contractors' cash flows, freeing up funds, which could then be used to ensure that the civil work
were completed close to schedule. The Bank should insist on DRBs being in place at the start up of
contracts for all of the major civil works, which it finances.
8.11   And finally, a financial and economic model of the project should have been in place prior to the
very start-up of the project, so that the "true cost" of implementation delays could be calculated as each
decision was faced. This model would have factored in the cost of failure to generate on time and thus
placed into context the expense or actions needed to produce huge economic gains for the country. Despite
repeated reminders from the Bank, such a model was not developed until the last few months of project
implementation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Following its review of the draft ICR the borrower offered no comments on it. The editorial comments
received from the beneficiaries, following their review of the draft, have since been included in the final text
of the ICR. Each of the beneficiaries (NJPC, HPSEB and CEA) prepared a project evaluation report and
these are reproduced at Attachment B of this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the two main co-financers, viz. Consortiun of Nordic Investment Fund &
European Bank and, Power Finance Corporation Ltd. of India.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 23 -



10. Additional Information
The other co-financiers were provided with an opportunity to comment on the draft ICR, but no comments
were offered by them.
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Water availability (tunnel completed, and dam December 2002                    December 2002
at sufficient height for commissioning and
generation of commercial power)
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Improvements In supplies to consumers in  January 2003                         January 2003
Northem Region, especially at times of
system peak demand.
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ Million
Nathpa Jhakri Hydro-electric scheme                1746.50        2104.20            121
HPSEB transmission lines and substations             78.40          69.40            89
HPSEB load dispatch and communications                4.70           4.20            89
HPSEB consultants study                               2.80           1.10            39
CEA/CWC technical assistance                         4.20            4.30            102
Total Baseline Cost                                1836.60        2183.20
Physical Contingencies                                                              119
Total Project Costs           1836.60        2183.20
Interest during construction  362.00        462.50         119.00
Total Financing Required           2198.60         2645.70
- 26 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditue.Cater  .Procurement Method
Expenditure.Category     ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                   724.00        8.00         0.00         0.00       732.00
(221.70)      (3.60)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (225.30)
2. Goods                   566.90        33.30        2.00         0.00       602.20
(249.40)      (0.00)      (1.60)       (0.00)      (251.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         8.70         0.00        8.70
Training & Consultant      (0.00)        (0.00)      (8.70)       (0.00)      (8.70)
services
4. Land & site preparation  0.00         0.00         76.80        10.20       87.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Compensation & other     0.00         0.00         0.00         1.30        1.30
costs of R&R and            (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
environment
6. Engineering and          0.00         0.00         0.00        43.40        43.40
administration             (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                   1290.90       41.30        87.50        54.90      1474.60
(471.10)      (3.60)      (10.30)       (0.00)     (485.00)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB          Othr2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB          Other______
1. Works                      826.60         77.60         0.00          0.00        904.20
(401.40)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (401.40)
2. Goods                      556.00         18.40         0.00          0.00        574.40
(17.90)        (0.70)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (18.60)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          16.20         0.00         16.20
Training & Consultant         (0.00)         (0.00)       (10.30)       (0.00)       (10.30)
services
4. Land & site preparation     0.00          0.00          0.00          18.10        18.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Compensation & other        0.00          0.00          0.00         18.70         18.70
costs of R&R and              (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
environment
6. Engineering and             0.00          0.00          0.00         189.00       189.00
administration                (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      1382.60        96.00         16.20        225.80       1720.60
(419.30)       (0.70)       (10.30)        (0.00)      (430.30)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
I includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
.___________________  Bank  Govt.    CoF.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Nathpa Jhakri          437.00    1010.00   300.00   399.00    1053.00   652.00   91.3  104.3  217.3
Hydro-electric scheme                                                                 l
HPSEB component         43.00     43.00    0.00      24.00     51.00     0.00    55.8  118.6   0.0
CEA TA                  5.00      0.00      0.00     4.00      0.00      0.00    80.0   0.0    0.0
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3A - Economic Annual Internal Rate of Return of the Nathpa Jhakri Hydro scheme based on
SAR costs and implementation schedule
Costs and benefits in constant Rupees (Crore)
Outflow                           Inflow    i    Net Flow
Elapsed year          FY            Capital          O & M            Total          Revenue
l            1987-88           53.7                             53.7            0.0            -53.7
2            1988-89           138.4                           138.4            0.0            -138.4
3            1989-90           133.5                           133.5             0.0           -133.5
4            1990-91           241.8                           241.8             0.0           -241.8
5             1991-92          272.5                           272.5             0.0           -272.5
6             1992-93         235.1                            235.1             0.0           -235.1
7             1993-94          88.6                             88.6             0.0            -88.6
8            1994-95           51.0            18.2             69.2            93.6            24.3
l   9         1995-96                           18.2            18.2            280.4           262.1
10-35         1996-2002                          18.2             18.2           419.0           400.7
Economic IRR               17.5%
Notes:
Investment costs as per SAR, Table 8, Annex 5.2
The economic life of the plant has been taken as 25 yrs (per SAR)
The 900/0 probable net energy available at the busbar of 6650 GWH has been taken as the plant output (SAR figure was higher - 6980 GWh)
The projects output has been valued at Rs. 0,63/kWh - the HPSEB tariff for sales outside the state in FY87 - SAR annex 2.3
0 & M assumed to be 1.5% of the total investment
- 29 -



Annex 3B - Ex-post Economic Annual Internal Rate of Return of the Nathpa Jhakri Hydro scheme
Costs and benefits in constant Rupees (Crore)
Outflow                         Inflow         Net Flow
Elapsed year         FY             Capital        O & M            Total          Revenue
1            1987-88          13.1                            13.1            0.0            -13.1
2            1988-89          24.3                            24.3            0.0            -24.3
3            1989-90          35.2                            35.2            0.0            -35.2
4            1990-91          28.9                            28.9            0.0            -28.9
5            1991-92          23.9                            23.9            0.0            -23.9
6            1992-93          31.1                            31.1            0.0            -31.1
7            1993-94          172.9                           172.9           0.0           -172.9
8            1994-95          366.7                          366.7            0.0           -366.7
9            1995-96          473.5                          473.5            0.0           -473.5
10           1996-97          439.7                           439.7            0.0           -439.7
11           1997-98          648.4                           648.4            0.0           -648.4
12           1998-99          611.9                           611.9            0.0           -611.9
13          1999-2000         440.3                           440.3            0.0           -440.3
14           2000-01          434.9                           434.9            0.0           -434.9
15           2001-02          648.7                           648.7            0.0           -648.7
16           2002-03          670.1                           670.1           82.5           -587.6
17           2003-04          817.4                           817.4           500.0          -317.4
18           2004-05                           88.2           88.2           1662.9          1574.6
19-35        2005-2044                          88.2            88.2           1662.9          1574.6
Economic IRR                      14.1 %
Notes:
Investment costs based on accelerated completion schedule.
The economic life of the plant has been taken as 40 years from full commissioning.
The 90%/o probable energy available at the busbar of 6650 GWh (net of 1% station use & transformer losses) has been taken as the plant output.
The current HPSEB sale price of hydropower to DVB of Rs. 2.50/kWh has been used to value the project's output.
IDC as well as Taxes and Duties @ 11.35% have been deducted from the investment costs.
- 30 -



Annex 3C - Economic Annual Internal Rate of Return of the HPSEB transmission lines and
substations component
Saving
resulting from                     Additional sale of power
Year     reduced losses  Resulting                                            Capital    Net revenue
(GWh)       revenues                                            expenditure   (Rs. Mn)
(Rs. million)  Energy         Cost       Revenues     (Rs. Mn)
(GWh)       (Rs. Mn)      (Rs. Mn)
1994-95           26           30           66            52           76           536         -481
1995-96           40           49           92            86           112          230         -154
1996-97           72           103          171          190          246           166          -6
1997-98           65           106          197          250          321           128          49
1998-99           105          181          302          408          523           128          168
1999-2000         125          246          329          634          647           51           208
2000-01           140          314          381          785           857          38           348
2001-02           140          315          404          832           909                       392
2002-03           140          315          428          882           963                       396
2003-04           140          315          454          935          1021                       401
2004-05           140          315          481          991          1082                       406
2005-14           140          315          510          1050         1147                       412
Economic IRR           26%
Notes:
Energy savings and additional sales estimated by HPSEB.
Investment costs exclude IDC and an estimated 15% taxes and excise duties.
Revenues estimated using average revenue/kWh for each year upto 2000-01 (Rs.2.25/kWh) and held constant thereafter.
Incremental sales are projected to rise by 6% p.a. for 5 years after completon, the same rate as HPSEB's sales from 1996-2001.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
May-June, 87                6    4 Engineers, I Financial Analyst,
I Project officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
Oct.-Nov., 87               2    1 Engineer, I Financial
analyst,
Septmeber, 1988             2    1 Engineer, I Financial Analyst
Supervision
June, 1989                   I   I Power Engineer                  S             S
September, 1989              1   1 Engineer
February, 1990               4   2 Engineers; I Financial Analyst;  HS           S
I Engineer (Consultant)
August, 1990                 1   1 Engineer                        HS            S
March, 1991                  1   1 Power Engineer                  HS            S
October, 1991                2   1 Power Engineer, I Financial     HS            S
Analyst
November, 1992               4   1 Power Engineer; I Hydroelect.   HS            S
Des. Consultant; I Construction
Consultant; I Sr. Financial
Analyst
November, 1993               5   1 Power Engineer; I Civil         HS            S
Engineer; I Financial Analyst; I
Economist (YP); I Irrigation
Engineer
July, 1994                   4   I Power Engineer; I Civil         HS            S
Engineer (Cons.); I
Environmentalist; I Sr. Power
Engineer
December, 1995               2   1 Civil Engineer; I Sr. Power     S             S
Engineer
March, 1996                  2   1 Civil Engineer; I Sr. Power     S             S
Engineer
December, 1996               3   1 R. Procurement Adviser; I       S             U
Task Manager; I Power Engineer
August, 1997                 6   1 Power Engineer; I Sr. Power     S             u
Engineer; 2 Civil Engineers; I
Contracts Specialist; I
Sociologist
January, 1998                2   1 Task Leader; I Energy           S             U
Specialist
June, 1998                   6   1 Task Leader; I Civil Engineer;  S             S
I Financial Analyst; I Energy
Specialist; I Sociologist; I
Environmentalist
- 32 -



December, 1998               6   1 Task Leader; 1 Senior            S             S
Financial Analyst; I Financial
Analyst; 1 Energy Specialist; 1
Contract Management; 1
Environmentalist
June, 1999                   2   1 Senior Engineer; 1 Energy        S             S
Specialist
November, 1999               3   1 Engineer; 1 Energy Specialist;
1 R&R Specialist
March, 2000                  2   1 Engineer; 1 Energy Specialist;   S             S
1 R&R Specialist
May, 2000                    1   1 R&R Specialist                   S             S
June/July 2000               3   1 Engineer; 1 Energy Specialist;   S             S
I Sr. Financial Analyst
December, 2000               4   1 Engineer; 1 Energy Specialist;   S             S
1 Sr. Financial Analyst; 1 R&R
Specialist
May, 2001                    6   1 Engineer; 1 Energy Specialist;   S             S
1 Sr. Financial Analyst; 1 R&R
Specialist; 1 Environment
Specialist
October, 2001                5   1 Engineer; I Energy Specialist;   S             S
1 R&R Specialist; 1 Environment
Specialist Consultant
March, 2002                  4   1 Engineer; 1 Energy Specialist;   S             S
1 R&R Specialist; 1 Environment
Specialist Consultant
ICR
April, 2002                  2    Lead dam specialist(l)            S             S
Environment specialist
consultant( 1),
May, 2002                    5    Energy Specialist(l),Senior       S             S
Financial Analyst(1), Sr.
Procurement Specialist(1),
Economist Consultant(1),
Consultant Engineer(1)
- 33 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               62                         151
Appraisal/Negotiation                    90                         227
Supervision                             248                         924
ICR                                       7                          52
Total                                   407                        1354
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Li Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
3I Sector Policies                      0 H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Physical                             0 H   *SUOM      O N  0 NA
LI Financial                            O H   OSUOM      * N  0 NA
D Institutional Development             0 H   0 SU * M   0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                         O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM      0 N   * NA
Li Gender                         O H  OSUOM      0 N   * NA
F Other (Please specify)          0 H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
Resettlement
Li Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
FJ Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      0 N  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OJHSOS *U OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       * U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Ol Preparation                                      OHS OS       * U    O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S     * U    0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O  U   O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Revised Detailed Project report- 2001 Volume I on General Engineering and Financial Aspects
received from Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation.
e      Revised Detailed Project Report -2001 for Compressed Project Schedule - Dec.2003 Completion,
Executive Summary and salient Features received from Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation.
Various Progress Reports for NJPC and HPSEB project implementation status, including reports
on implementation of Environmental Management Plans, and Resettlement & rehabilitation Plan.
O      Report on Transfer of Technlogy Program for CEA/CWC.GSI Hydro Power Engineers received
from Mr. Rustagi, Director, CEA.
*      Entity Accounts with Balance sheet of HPSEB and NJPC for various years.
*      NHPC presentation by NHPC on Commercial Management, March 12, 2002 - hard copy available
Excerpts from various POE reports.
*      CFJV (Continental Foundation Joint Ventures, Contractor for contracts no. 1.0 & 2. 1)
contribution on the contractual aspects.
*      NJJV ( Nathpa Jhakri Joint Venture Contractor for contracts no. 2.2) contribution on the
contractual aspects.
*      Preliminary Results of the Study on 'Impact Assessment of Resettlement Implementation Under
Nathpa-Jhakri Hydroelectric Power Project' by Agro-Economic Research Centre Himachal
Pradesh University Summer Hill, Shimla - 171 005.
- 37 -



Additional Annex 8. Latest update on implementation progress of the project
NathDa Jhakri Power Proiect - Loan 3024A-IN
A. The HPSEB and CEA components have long since been completed.
B. The status of implementation of the Nathpa Jhakri hydro-scheme, as of September 9, 2002 is as follows:
*   27.4 km long, 10-meter diameter head race tunnel. Excavation is 100% completed. Concrete
(26.3 km) or steel lined (1. Ikm) throughout its length - steel lining 100% complete, concrete lining
72% completed, overt concreting 92% completed.
* 300 meter deep, 25 meter diameter surge tank. 100% completed.
* 60 meter high, 155 meter long gravity dam. Concrete volume - 184,000 cubic meters. 96% of
concrete placed. All sluice liners in place and embedment of Anchor Girders in concrete in
progress. Dam concreting has been completed to the extent that all remaining work is independent
of river flow.
*   Desilting chambers, four in number. Total volume of excavation required - 88,000 cubic meters.
Excavation - 75% completed. Only one chamber would be required for commissioning of first unit.
*   Intake works. 75,000 cubic meters of concreting required. All excavation completed, and 90% of
concrete placed.
*   Powerhouse cavem. Machine hall concreting 99% completed. Unit 5 (first unit scheduled for
commissioning) Stator assembly and assembly of Generator coolers completed, Rotor lowered in
the pit, alignment of Generator with Turbine Shaft and piping for Main Inlet Valve under progress.
Alignment of bus-duct completed, welding of horizontal portions & delta run completed and for
inclined portions under progress. Boxing up of the unit planned in October, 2002. Unit 6 (second
unit to be commissioned) - HV test on Rotor & Stator completed, Rotor lowered into the pit. Pi
ping for Main Inlet Valve under progress. Alignment & welding of horizontal portions of bus-duct
completed. Boxing up of the unit planned in December, 2002.
*   Tail-race tunnel. Excavation 99% complete. Rampur inlet tunnel approach - 100% complete.
*   420 kV gas insulated switchgear - 99% complete. I % pending commissioning of units.
*   Switch yard (Pot head yard) - Excavation 95% complete.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 9. Attachment A
INDIA - Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024A-IN
ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
1. A World Bank power sector teamr           visited Himachal Pradesh to further prepare the
implementation completion report (ICR) of the Nathpa Jhakri Power Project. The mission would like to
record its sincere appreciation of the efforts, collaboration and hospitality of all those associated with
the project who have assisted the Bank during the many past supervision missions.
2. Mission conclusions: It is clear that the accelerated pace of implementation of the Nathpa Jhakri
hydro project is being maintained and that the commissioning of the first unit of the plant in December
2002 looks increasingly probable. However, the rapid progress on physical implementation is not being
matched by the commercial, financial and operational aspects, which now need to be given particular
attention to ensure that they too can be ready in time. Some key actions necessary to meet the
December 2002 target are summarized in the table below:
Issue                  Action
NJPC management Maintaining continuity is essential for successful project completion
Commercial             Appointed staff should be rapidly released from their existing positions in order to
department.            take up their duties in the new department. Office facilities, including equipment,
are also urgently required for the new department.
RCE submission to      NJPC to submit its revised project costs as soon as possible after clearance by
PIB & CCEA             MOP. This action is on the critical path for the tariff filing to CERC.
Tariff submission      Preparation of tariff submission, with help from consultants NHPC, should be
to CERC                expedited, because CERC requires the submission to be completed in all respects at
least 3 months before tariff notification.
Power Purchase         NJPC needs to get power allocation for the project finalized from MOP and submit
Agreements             draft PPAs to all nine N. Region SEBs and initiate negotiations with a view to
finalizing them by October.
Operations             Task force to be set up by NJPC to work with their consultants to draft manual
Manual
The team consisted of Sunil Khosla (Task Leader), Judith Plummer, (Senior Financial Analyst), Devesh Mishra, (Senior Procurement Specialist)
Sunil Mathrani (Consultant Economist) and Anthony Sparkes (Consultant Engineer). The mission met with representatives of Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA), the Acting Chairnan of NIPC and his senior staff, Board Members and staff of Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
(HPSEB), and representatives of the Ministry of Power. The mission visited most of the areas and underground works of the Nathpa 3hakri scheme
during May 18 to 25, 2002.
The environment team consisting of Messrs. Alessandro Palmieri ( lead dam specialist) and Tapas Paul ( consultant, environment specialist)
undertook the site visit from April 22 to 25, 2002; they also participated in the seminar on 'Dam safety' organized on April 26,2002.by NJPC and
NHPC on the Bank's suggestion
- 39 -



Nathpa Jhakri Power Project data
Loan Nos. 30240/3024S                     Current ratings and flags
Loan amount                       $485 million IBRD Development objectives Satisfactory
Closing date Age                 03/31/2002
12.5 yearslmplementation progress Satisfactory
% disbursed                      91 % Problem flagsNil
3.     Project implementation: Implementation continues at a good pace, with focus on achieving the
December, 2002 target for the first two units.. This aide memoire will form part of the ICR, and for that
purpose Attachment 1 to this aide memoire has been prepared to indicate the status of implementation to
May 15, 2002.
4.     Shoulding intake works: The mission noted that these works are critical to commissioning the
first unit in December 2002. NJPC and the contractors have little doubt that they will be completed
sufficiently in advance to provide water for testing the downstream reaches of the tunnel and the first unit,
by end-September, so as to accommodate the December 2002 commissioning date.
5.     The settling basins: The completion of basins 3 and 4, especially basin 4, are on the critical path
to December 2002 commissioning. NJPC and the contractor are well aware of this, and progress to date
suggests that completion here can accommodate water availability in November 2002.
6.     The dam: The mission remains of the opinion that the dam and intake works can be completed in
time, so that water can be entrained into the headrace tunnel in November 2002. However, work will need
to continue at the great pace that has been evident over the last twelve months.
7.     Power house cabling, air conditioning, fire protection: The status and importance of these
supply and erection contracts, and especially the supply of cables, held up due to a court order, were
discussed with the Acting Chairman. The mission is pleased to record that he assured the mission that a
contingency plan has been prepared to ensure that the cables are available in time so as not to interfere with
the December 2002 commissioning date.
8.     Project cost estimates to completion and financing: The mission received from NJPC and
HPSEB their current estimates of the cost to complete of their components of the project. NJPC's estimates
are based on the accelerated schedule. The estimate is more than the current GOI-approved RCE II sum,
but less than the RCE III proposal, which NJPC is processing through MOP and DEA to the Public
Investment Board (PIB). This is prudently in anticipation of the possibility that NJPC cannot meet the
accelerated schedule. A delay of six months would result in the cost increasing by about Rs, 350 crore,
mainly due to IDC. Table attached as Annex I indicates the cost to completion assuming that the
accelerated schedule is met. Until the PIB clearance has been obtained, NJPC cannot submit a formal
request to PFC to bridge the possible funding gap, which would mainly be created by this increase in IDC.
The Director (Finance) of NJPC informed the mission that funding is unlikely to be a bottleneck for the
first two units, but would be required thereafter to continue payment for the balance works. Table I
indicates that the cost of the project in Rupee terms has increased by 233% when compared to the appraisal
estimate, but by only 19% in US dollar terms. At appraisal the exchange rate was Rs. 13.3 to the US dollar
and for RCE-III, the exchange rate used is Rs. 47 to the US dollar.
-40 -



9.     NJPC management: The mission stressed to the Acting Chairman that in order to maintain the
current momentum of project implementation, it is crucial that continuity of senior management be
maintained at least until commissioning of all the units has been completed.
10.    Safety issues: There appears to be much greater compliance with the use of safety equipment than
in the past. However, it was evident that unnecessary risks are still being taken. Contractor employees were
observed working on open platformns on the upstream face of the dam without safety harnesses.
11.    Extension-of-time claims: The mission noted with satisfaction that the Additional Dispute Review
Boards (ADRB), which are dealing with the extension of time claims, are now in place for contracts 1.0,
2.1 and 2.2, and that claims had been presented by the contractors and rebuttals have been made within the
60 day time limit by NJPC. The decisions of the ADRBs are now awaited, but these will only be handed
down following the complex analysis that will be required of each ADRB. NJPC confirmed that the work
of the 'ordinary' DRBs, to process other routine disputes in the contracts, except extension of time claims,
continues and that NIPC is acting in accordance with the decisions handed down, and paying the
contractors promptly.
12.    Integrated financial and hydrological model: NJPC's commercial consultants (NHPC) are
developing this model and will train NJPC staff in its use as part of their assignment. Hydrological data for
the last five years needs to be provided by NJPC to the consultants to update the estimate of the long term
guaranteed energy output of the plant. The mission requested that the consultants assist NJPC with use of
the model to prepare a five-year financial forecast for NJPC as part of the ICR preparation process.
13.    The model's predictive capability is limited by the poor availability of data on snow accumulation
and temperatures in the upstream catchment area, a major part of which lies in China. In the longer term
NJPC will need assistance from hydrological consultants to assist in improving data collection (possibly via
remote sensing) as well as in better modeling of water flows. NJPC should initiate contact with the
appropriate Chinese research/meteorological institutes through central governmental/diplomatic channels to
explore ways of collaborating on these scientific matters.
14.    Tariff approval: NJPC, with the help of their consultants needs to complete preparation of the
tariff submission to CERC as soon as possible, given that the latter requires at least 3 months to issue a
ruling. The tariff clearance process also requires prior approval of the NJPC revised project costs by the
PIB and CCEA, which are therefore potential bottlenecks to the CERC submission. MOP is reviewing the
revised cost estimate, prior to submission to the PIB. Obtaining the rapid clearance of PIB deserves
particular attention by NJPC management.
15.    NHPC, NJPC's consultants for commercial issues, made a presentation to the Bank team showing
the progress made to date. The mission expressed its relief that finally action was being taken on these most
vital and complex issues. The presentation covered areas su'ch as the organization of the commercial
department, the drafting and approval of power purchase agreements, the procedure for filing a tariff
application with the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission and the station's likely position in a merit
order dispatch.
16.    The organizational structure of the new commercial department has been finalized and also
approved by the NJPC Board. Eleven of the 18 posts have been filled. The concerned staff have been
informed of their selection but have not yet taken up the positions, and the mission was assured by the
Acting Chairman that they would be in place by the end of May, 2002. It is vital that this departrnent
becomes operational rapidly as there is a large amount of work to be performed before December 2002 if
-41 -



NJPC is to be able to bill for the electricity it expects to produce.
17.    The prevailing environment amongst the state off-takers (the SEBs and the new Corporations) is
such that there is a great likelihood of current dues being settled and that back-dated billing will be delayed
in settlement for as long as possible. Thus, it is in NJPC's best interest to bill on time and as accurately as
possible to avoid large, late bills or adjustments. To this end the agreement of Ministry of Power to the
share of power for each of the state from the station, the signing of the PPAs with the off-takers and the
application to CERC for a tariff are now on the critical path to commercial operation of the station.
18.    The consultant's analysis indicates that the station's initial tariff is likely to be in the region of Rs.
3.17 based on the "Revised Cost Estimate III", after taking into account the 12 % free power for the state
of Himachal Pradesh . This will make it more expensive than some other power currently coming onto the
market, however, the levelized tariff of about Rs 2.72 over a 35-year period is likely to be attractive to the
off-takers provided that they can negotiate reasonably long PPAs. The mission's estimates show that if the
cost out-turn is less due to the achievement of the accelerated implementation program the initial tariff is
more likely to be Rs. 2.98 and the levelized tariff Rs. 2.65. As a hydro station, Nathpa Jhakri' ;s position in
the merit order dispatch is assured, but NJPC cannot be complacent about tariffs in an environment, which
is likely to become increasingly competitive over the next few years.
19.    As in previous missions, the team emphasized the need to think commercially, even while operating
within a planned environment. For example hydro stations with peaking capabilities will be well placed to
take advantage of the bonuses available under a frequency-based tariff. NJPC should also pursue the
opportunities to sell surplus power outside the Gadgil formula to maximize their income.
20.    Power Purchase Agreements: It was evident to the mission that NJPC has finally realized the
urgency and complexity of preparing the final version of the PPA, which it intends to use for its sales to the
SEBs/Utilities of the Northem Region states . NJPC and its consultant NHPC are redrafting the PPA,
taking into account the comments on a draft PPA, which were received during the last meeting with the
NREB. The NJPC draft requires Board approval before it can be circulated to buyers. Thereafter, and as
soon as possible, NJPC must make high-level contact with all the future buyers of its power so as to ensure
that the PPAs are finalized before commissioning of the first unit in December 2002. Even if NJPC's
power sale price to SEBs is not approved by the CERC until a date close to the start of production, all
other aspects of the PPAs should be agreed with the buyers well ahead of time (see also paragraph 22 in
this regard). It is recommended that the duration of the PPAs be reduced from the proposed 35 years, so as
to give NJPC greater flexibility for the future.
21.    Remedial Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) . The mission reviewed the RAP implementation
progress report provided by NJPC and concluded that, except for the allotment of shop plots to 7 families,
all other entitlements have been delivered to eligible affected families. The allotment of shop plots is being
held up due to legal litigations. The details of implementation outcome are provided in Annex 2 . The
mission concludes that the overall RAP implementation is satisfactory, as the actions proposed in RAP
were substantially completed and the few balance works (the allotment of shop plots, the continuation of
income generation activities and the completion of the few on-going small infrastructure works) will be
completed as on going basis. The successful uninterrupted functioning for more than two years of the
mobile health unit is considered to be the single most important contribution of this aspect of the project in
providing health care benefits to the local population. The success of the resettlement activity undertaken in
this project is quite rare for India, and can be considered as one of the best examples of resettlement
implementation in Bank-assisted projects in India. It should be both exemplified and emulated in other
projects.
- 42 -



Based on the experience of resettlement implementation, NJPC proposes to operationalise the
following activities on a permanent basis.
a. Continuation of Mobile Health Unit. In view of its successful operation for more than 2 years,
NJPC will operationalise the running of mobile health unit under the functioning of its project
hospital;
b. Community Development Fund . NJPC intend to create a community development fund to
undertake income generation, small infrastructure, welfare and promotion of new methods in
agriculture and horticulture activities; and,
c. Continuation of R&R department. The R&R department created during the implementation of
RAP will continue to exist including its staff to oversee the community development activities,
the Project Information center's activities and any other related activities that may be undertaken
by NJPC in the future.
The mission suggested that NJPC reflect the activities (a, b and c) in NJPC's contribution to the ICR.
Impact Assessment of Resettlement Implementation. The commencement of this study has
slipped by six weeks from the time scheduled agreed during the last mission in March, 2002. The
consultants from Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, will shortly commence the impact assessment of
resettlement implementation to assess the changes in the living standards of project affected persons (PAPs)
and determine whether any further remedial measures are required. The consultants have participated in
the mission's field visits and in various mission meetings to familiarize themselves with the resettlement
implementation. It is expected that the draft report of the study will be available for Bank's review and
comments by July 15, 2002. The findings of this independent study will be incorporated in the ICR.
23.    Environmental Management. There was noticeable progress in the implementation of the
environmental management actions since last mission. Consultants have prepared redevelopment plan for
borrow areas, quarries and muck disposal sites; the Department of Fisheries has initiated implementing the
fisheries development plan; the state Pollution Control Board (HP-SPCB) has been appointed for baseline
pollution monitoring, and baseline monitoring would start in May 2000. Pending finalization of the
catchment area treatment plan, the NJPC and the Forest Department have agreed to start implementing the
mutually agreed actions. Initiatives had been undertaken to build up the capacity of the Environment Cell.
One environmental engineer has been recruited, and would be joining NJPC in June 2000, and an
advertisement for additional recruitment has been published.
24.    It would be important to take up and complete implementation of the various environmental
management actions, as soon as possible, as the project is due to be operational from January 2003. The
major bottleneck still is the catchment area treatment plan, which needs to be deliberated, consulted and
agreed upon. The mission reiterated the need for better safety assurance, training and awareness program,
and recommended that a revised safety assurance plan be forwarded to the Bank. The detailed agreements
reached in these regards, and the revised targets are placed in Annex 3.
25.    Dam Safety and Operational Reliability. The Nathpa dam could be considered a very safe
structure. In the long tertn, dam safety can be effectively managed with an adequate O&M Plan. Operation
reliability of the entire scheme (dam, waterways and power house) should become the focus of NJPC.
Detail discussion on this, and the following recommendations is given in Annex 4. The assistance of an
experienced rock engineer! engineering geologist should be continued for the project.
-43 -



26.    Implementation of flood warning systems is very important for the safe and reliable operation of
the scheme. Extending information on floods to population at risk, mainly in Rampur, could be a means to
share project's benefits with local populations. The mission also recommended that consultations with local
users of the river bed areas downstream of the dam should be carried out to assess the extent of the
minimum flows to be maintained during the dry period.
27.    Submission of remaining withdrawal applications. All demands for payment should reach the
Bank's New Delhi office no later than June 30, 2002 so that they can be processed before the final cut-off
date of July 31, 2002.
28.    Operations and maintenance. NJPC has estimated that it requires about 630 staff to operate the
plant, which is significantly lower than NHPC staffing for its plants on a per MW basis. Some of these
would be transferees from HPSEB or outsourced. The exercise to recruit these extra staff into NJPC should
be completed as soon as possible so that they can be involved in commissioning and the training, especially
the training which is required to operate the station in the complex mode for which it was designed, of being
able to come on and off-load quickly to the most benefit to the Northern Region. NJPC also need to prepare
a transition plan for the remaining staff, when construction works get completed. The task force, which is
to be set up, should as soon as possible begin its work with the consultants (NHPC) to draft the operations
manuals. Involvement of local populations in monitoring and surveillance tasks should be seriously
considered. Local personnel training would promote plant operation sustainability as well as local
ownership. The draft O&M Plan should be reviewed by the Panel of Experts.
29.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission discussed with NJPC its preliminary
draft contribution to the ICR. A re-drafted copy will be submittedlto the Bank by June 15, 2002. The draft
ICR will be sent to the borrower and to the executing agencies by June 30,2002, and comments, if any,
should be sent to the Bank within two weeks thereof
30.    HPSEB's component of the project. The transmission components of the project were 100%
completed several years ago. The replacement of overloaded 33kV networks by 132 kV lines and
substations has contributed to a significant reduction in losses as well as permitting HPSEB to increase its
sales. The final cost of the transmission reinforcement is estimated to be about Rs. 1,500 million (excl.
IDC) of which the Bank financed about Rs. 770 million (5 1%). Phase II of HPSEB's computerization
exercise, to procure, install and commission hardware and software was completed in January 2002.
31.    HPSEB has failed to comply with its main financial covenant of 7% return on net fixed assets for
the past three years and is unlikely to show any significant financial improvement in the near ternm. The
surplus power that HPSEB will have at its disposal after the commissioning of the Nathpa Jhakri and
Baspa projects will have a significant impact on its finances, both in terms of cost (purchases from Baspa)
and revenues (a 12% free allocation of NJPC's production). In the absence of final purchase and sale prices
for these ' export' transactions it is currently difficult to quantify the overall impact on HPSEB.
32.    The mission noted that besides having fallen behind in its equity contribution to the Nathpa Jhakri
scheme, GHP is also not in compliance with the subsidiary loan agreement with HPSEB. It has not passed
on to HPSEB the finds it received from GOI as reimbursement for project expenditures incurred by
HPSEB. Consequently HPSEB has had to borrow in the local capital markets at higher rates than agreed to
in the on-lending agreement, in order to fund project expenditures.
33.    The mission discussed with HPSEB its draft contribution to the ICR. A re-draft will be provided to
the Bank by June 15, 2002.
- 44 -



INDIA - Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024A-IN
ICR MISSION AIDE MUEMOIRE - Attachment 1
Status of implementation as of May 15, 2002
The HPSEB and CEA components have long since been completed.
The status of implementation of the Nathpa Jhakri hydro-scheme, as of May 15, 2002 is as follows:
*   27.4 km long, 10-meter diameter head race tunnel. Excavation is 100% completed. Concrete or
steel lined throughout its length - steel lining 10% complete, concrete lining 67% completed.
*   300 meter deep, 25 meter diameter surge tank. 100% completed.
*   60 meter high, 155 meter long gravity dam. Concrete volume - 184,000 cubic meters. 83% of
concrete placed. All sluice liners in place and embedment in concrete in progress. Dam concreting
has been completed to the extent that all remaining work is independent of river flow.
*   Desilting chambers, four in number. Total volume of excavation required - 88,000 cubic meters.
Excavation - 68% completed.
*   Intake works. 75,000 cubic meters of concreting required. All excavation completed, and 72% of
concrete placed.
*   Powerhouse cavem. Machine hall concreting 99.3% completed. Unit 5 (first unit scheduled for
commissioning) - stator assembly completed, HV test of rotor completed. Unit 6 (second unit to be
commissioned) - stator core magnetizing test completed.
*   Tail race tunnel. Excavation 97% complete. Rampur inlet tunnel approach -; 100% complete.
*   420 kV gas insulated switchgear - 99% complete. 1% pending commissioning of units.
O   Switch yard (Pot head yard) - Excavation 87% complete
-45 -



Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024 & 3024A-IN
Attachment A - ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE - Annex 1
Table - Project cost estimate to completion - end May 2002
Cost as per           Current cost             Cost as per            Current cost
staff appraisal        estimate to             staff appraisal          estimate to
report              completion                 report               completion
------(Rupees         ------(US$
crore)-----          Million)----
Nathpa Jhakri Power Station
- Land & site preparaton                             104.4                   67.6                       78.5                 16.2
- Resettlement of Population                           0.'                   44.0                        0.5                 10.5
- Environment protection program                       I.4                   25.7                        1.                   6.2
- Dam, intake & desilting works                      162.3                1,374.6                      122.                329.0
- Headrace tunnel & surge tank                       389.6                2,397.2                     293.0                573.8
- Pressure shaft, powerhouse, plant  and             689.                 2,460.                      518.2                589.0
tailrace tunnel
Nathpa Jhakri scheme total base cost                   1,347.5                6,369.                     1,013.2              1,524.6
Nathpa Jhakri physical contingencies                    268.2                    7.(                      201.7                  1.7
Nathpa Jhakri price contingencies                       458.2                  528.                       196.4                126.6
Total Nathpa Jhakri scheme cost                        2,073.9                6,905.(                    1,411.3              1,652.9
Nathpa Jhakri interest during construction              524.5                 1,910.'                     335.3                451.1
Total Nathpa Jhakri financing required                 2,598.4                8,816.(                    1,746.6             2,104.0
Expansion and reinforcement of transmission in            55.                   152.                       41.9                 58.9
Himachal Pradesh
C - Communication and load dispatch for                    3.                     9.                        2.5                  3.6
HPSEB
Institutional development for HPSEB                        2.(                    2.6                        1.5                 0.9
HPSEB component total base cost                          61.1                   164.9                      45.9                 63.4
HPSEB physical contingencies                               6.1                                              4.
HPSEB price contingencies                                 11.6                                              8.7
Total HPSEB component cost                                78.8                                             59.2
HPSEB interest dunrng construction                        35.5                  37.7                       26.7                 11.4
Total HPSEB financing required                           114.3                 202.6                       85.9                 74.8
CEA technical assistance                                   5.                    25.8                       4.2                  4.3
Total project financing required                       2,718.;                9,044.5                    1,836.7              2,183.1
Increase in Rupee and US$ terms                                                2330/4                          1                19%
Note: The above cost estimates are based on the accelerated schedule version of Cost to Completion
See aide memoire text, paragraph 8 for details, especially with regard to the IDC involved for the Nathpa Jhakri
scheme.
-46 -



INDIA - Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024A-IN
ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE - Annex 2
Remedial Resettlement Action Plan
1.     This Annex provides an overview of the implementation outcome of the Remedial Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP). The RAP was under implementation since 1999 with an estimated budget of Rs. 72.41
million.
2.     Physical Progress of RAP Implementation. A matrix is provided in the attachment to this Annex,
which describes the physical progress in each of the activities proposed under RAP. The matrix shows the
details such as physical target and progress (in terms of percentage), target date and additional information
where required. There was a saving of Rs. 27.5 million, which will be used for future activities.
3.     Delivery of Entitlements. All the entitlements (except the allotment of seven shop plots) were duly
delivered to the project affected families (PAFs). These included (a) the employment of 51 PAFs in the
project; (b) land-for-land to 41 PAFs; (c) the allotment of shops plots to 71 PAFs (91%); (d) the allotment
of purpose-built houses 16 PAFs; and, (e) cash in lieu of built houses to 43 PAFs. The allotment of shop
plots to the reaming seven PAFs was beyond the control of NJPC, because it is held up due to court cases.
These shop allotments will be completed in accordance with the court verdict.
4.     Functioning of Mobile Health Unit. The mobile health unit, which commissioned its operation in
January 2000, is functioning satisfactorily. The unit visits the affected villages four days in a week and
provides the consultation and medicines to the surrounding villagers. So far 11,970 patients were treated
which is about 425 patients in a month. NJPC informed the mission that this unit will continue to function
beyond the project closing date. In view of it continuation, the mission recommends that NJPC should
review the medical and para-medical staff in its project hospital, and accordingly NJPC may require to
strengthen the staff so that it can continue with the operation of the mobile health unit into the future.
5.     Income Generation Schemes (IGS). The response for IGS is not very encouraging. The IGS were
formulated in RAP with a view to provide supplementary income to PAFs particularly those living below
the poverty line. The IGS were formulated on the lines of demand driven basis. The interested PAF should
contribute 20 percent of the cost for acquiring the assets. NJPC provided assistance to 33 PAFs to start the
activities such as dairy, petty shops, piggery, and sheep breeding. The mission's field visits indicate that
because of these activities the family income has increased from Rs. 500 to Rs. 1000 per month. In view of
its not encouraging response, NJPC has now proposed to extend the IGS to self-help groups for larger
activities including large scale dairy production and the establishment and operation of buses companies.
The scheme is now also open to those families above the poverty line. The mission was informed that seven
proposal are under consideration for those above the poverty line. The need for use of Special IGS did not
arise since all those eligible PAFs were provided employment in the project. The savings out of IGS and
special IGS will now be used for supporting group oriented activities as well as individual IGS as long as a
demand exists.
6.     Small Infrastructure Development: All the activities proposed have either been completed or are
at an advance stage of completion. The activities undertaken include water supply and sewerage facilities,
creation of playgrounds, approach roads, construction of school buildings, street lighting, and construction
-47 -



of cremation grounds. Some of these facilities were undertaken by the state government directly on
reimbursement basis in Kinnaur district. However the experience under this arrangement is not very
positive. Therefore, NJPC is now intent to take up works in Kinnaur district directly. In view of the demand
for various small infrastructure works in the affected villages, NJPC has earmarked an additional Rs. 10
million out of the savings, to take up various works. The field visit interaction reveals that some of the
playgrounds (Shah and Sanarsa) require fencing to improve the safety for the children in such hilly terrains.
Physical Progress of RAP
No   Action                 Target   Revised   Progress     Remarks
as per   Target    (as on May
RAP                31, 2002)
1    Payment of cash in lieu  43     43       43 (100%)
of altemative house
2    Allotment of built     18        16       16 (100%)    In addition Cash in lieu of built house
houses                                                 was given to 43 families
3    Employment in NJPC     62       51        51 (100%)    The target was revised after excluding
those who could not provide a nominee.
4    Land for land          62       41        41 (100%)
5    Allotment of shop plots  77     78        71 (91%)
6    Support for income     121      115       33 (29%)     There is no more demand among the
generation activities                                 target group. Hence it was opened for all
PAPs.
7    Special income         200      200       0 (0%)       This activity has been planned for those
generation activities                                  whom the employment could not be
provided in the project. However, all
eligible PAPs were offered employment.
Hence the need for implementation of
this scheme has not arisen.
8    Mobile health van               I         I (100 %)    11,970 patients have been treated since
January, 2000.
9    Small Infrastructure   Rs. 9.0   Rs. 9.0  Rs. 8.90     The amount included those amount
activities*            Million  Million   million      committed for ongoing activities which
(99%)        are in advance stage of competition.
Additional Rs. 10.0 million will be used
out of the savings of RAP for various
infrastructure works
* include playgrounds, additional class rooms, approach roads, and street lighting.
- 48 -



INDIA - Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024A-IN
ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE - Annex 3
The following is the summary of agreements reached during the Bank mission in May 2002. Each of these
targets are very crucial for the project, given the revised and advanced power generation date.
No.     Environmental Management          Target (as per Earlier      Progress/ Targets (October       Revised Agreements h Targets
Action                        Missions)                       2001)                          (March 2002)
Mandated Works through        Compensatory afforestation    236ha of land                  I 00%9 (Physical)
the Forest Department                                     at a cost of Rs.7.23 million   52.2% (Financial)Physical - Nil
Environmental protection     205ha of land                   100% (Physical).
works: Afforestation                                        81.3% (Financial) Physical -Nil.
Environmental protection     53.5ha + 3.65km of linear
works: Land stabilisation    stretch
Environmental protection      18.15km of drainsl'khad' +
works: Stabilisation of drains  15ha ofarea
Avenue Plantation             10500 no.                      100% (Physical).
_  _________________________   ]47.5% (Financial).Physical - Nil.
Quarry Area Conservation     Pachhada Quarry                No physical progress.
50.7% (Financial).See
Item 3 (land reclamationl protection)
__________________          _ _below.
2        Catchment Area Treatment       Preparation                  Finalisation by 31 May 2001.    -   Forest Department to submit the
(CAT) Plan                                           Note that the Final CAT Plan   draft CAT Plan (20 October 2001). NJPC
includes the following, as per the  (with Forest Department) to organise two
agreements reached during the  Stakeholders' Workshop by 15
Bank Mission in May 2001:      November 2001.
-     Phasing of the plan      -    Based on the outcomes of the
-     Final agreement on the   Stakeholders' workshop, the draft plan to
cost of the plan               be Finalised by 30 November 2001.
-     Schedule and terms of    -    MoU for implementation of the CAT
transfer of payment            Plan to be signed before 30 December
-     Agreement on the         2001.
implementation arrangement     -    The CAT plan has not been
(including involving NGOs)     finalised.-    Pending the fmnalisation
-     Reporting requirements   of the CAT Plan, and signing of MoU, the
NJPC and the Forest Department have
agreed to start implementing those parts
of the CAT Plan, where there is mutual
agreement. A budget of RslO million is
agreed for such purposes, and will be
transferred to the Forest Department.
-   Continue discussion with the Forest
Department to finalise the CAT Plan in
all its aspects, as early as possible and get
GOI approval.
Implementation               Ist Year's plantation to be     -   Ist Year's plantation to be
completed before July 2001.    completed before July 2002.
Other components of CAT Plan to  -   I st Year's minor engineering works
be initiated in 2001.           to be completed in March 2001.
-   No physical progress. -
Start implementation of the agreed part
of the CAT Plan before monsoon.
-   Minor engineering works of the
mutually agreed part of the to be
completed in before monsoon.
3       Land reclamatlon/ protection    Treatment of borrow pits                                     -   Prepare draft plan and cost estimate
by 15 February 2002
-   Finalise plan and cost estimate (and
approval from Forest Department) by 15
March 2002.
-   Ensure that the restoration of the
Pachhada Quarry is included in the Plan.
- No physical progresS, - Prepared
draft plan and cost estimate by 15 March
- 49 -



2002
-   Will finalise plan and cost estimate
(and endorsement from Forest
Department) by June 2002.
-   Ensured that the restoration of the
Pachhada Quarry is included in the Plan.
-   NJPC to start implementing the
Plan, and all works should be complete
before monsoon.
Reclamation of muck disposal  Damaged protection works to be
sites                       restored before July 2001.
Check erosion of road (&
roadsides)
4        Env1romnental Monitoring     Monitoring of the baseline                                -   A 4-season baseline for the
environmental conditions                                  pre-operation period is necessary. Such
(pre-operation period)                                    monitoring should stan not later than
February 2002.
-   Forward an Action Plan to the Bank
by 31 December 200 1, to achieve the
above, and giving details of (a)
Agreement on outsourcing the monitoring
activities, (b) Procurement of agencies-
The State Pollution Control Board has
been selected as the monitoring agency.
An agreement with the agency has been
signed.
-   The baseline monitoring will start
before the end of June 2002.
-   Forward an Action Plan to the Bank
by June 2002, giving details of the
monitoring plan and schedules.
-   The Action Plan will also explain
how Environmental Engineers of NJPC
would be trained during the consultant's
assignment.
5              Institutional          Filling up vacancy of the   "As soon as possible"         -   The Environmental Engineer should
Environmental Engineer                                    be in position before baseline monitoring
starts (February 2002).-  The newly
selected Environmental Engineer will join
by May 2002.
-   New candidates will be given
appointment, without delay, and should
be involved in baseline monitoring
programme.
Filling up vacancy of the Head  N/A                       Needs to be filled as soon as possible
of Environmental & R&R Cell                               Additional charge is given to the
Additional Chief Engineer, NJPC.
6         Other Components of the     Wildlife conservation/      To be made part of the CAT    it is reported that the Forest Department
Environmental Management      protection                  plan                          has incorporated this in the draft CAT
Plan                                                                         Plan This is included in the CAT Plan.
Development of tourism                                    Dropped, since it is beyond the capacity
of either NJPC or the line govemment
departments to implement.The funds
available under this head would be
transferred for implementation of the
CAT Plan.
Sustenance & enhancement of                              -    Draft plan received from the
fisheries                                                Fisheries Department in 1998.
-    The draft plan to be shared with
the Bank as soon as possible.
-    Action plan to be forwarded to the
Bank by 31 December 2001.-
Agreement on the Fisheries Development
Plan has been reached between the NJPC
and the Fisheries Departsnent.
-    Money for implementing first
year's programme has been transferred to
the Fisheries Department.
-    Action plan to be forwarded to the
- 50 -



I                                                                                          Bank by June 2002.
7      Safety Assurance                                             Looking at the safety records, an  -  The Safety Assurance Plan received
adequate Safety Assurance Plan  by the Bank is not comprehensive, and
is required. To be forwarded to  does not report action taken after 2000, or
the Bank by 31 December 2001.  actions to be taken for the remaining
period of construction.
-   Detailed requirements of a safety
assurance plan was discussed with NJPC
Officials, which included (a) specifying
roles and responsibilities, (b) enforcement
arrangements, (c) inducting the personnel
earlier trained in safety assurance, and (d)
specifying standards for the contractors.
-   NJPC to forward a Revised Safety
Assurance Plan to the Bank by June
2002.
8       Documentation on (a) Erosion    Periodical.                 Documentation to be forwarded  -   Documentation received by the
control, (b) avenue plantation, (c)                         to the Bank by 30 November    Bank is not comprehensive, and does not
Solid waste disposal, and (d)                                2001.                        give details of work done. Photographs
reduction in tree felling.                                                                were part of the report, but in absence of
quantities, and description makes little
sense.
-    Requirement of a comprehensive
documentation was discussed with NJPC
Officials.
-    Revised documentation to be
forwarded to the Bank by July 2002.
9       Estimate of tree felling on                                  Estimate of trees felled for (a)  To be forwarded to the Bank as soon as
downstream or associated works                               the power evacuation works, and  possible. Target date - June 2002.
(b) deposit works will be
forwarded to the Bank by 31
December 2001.
10    Consultation with communities for                                                          As recommended dufing the discussion
river flow management                                                                      between NJPC and Mr. Palmieri from the
Bank, NJPC should organise community
consultation to understand the needs of
the people for water downstream of
Nathpa up to Rampur, and prepare a plan
how the required minimum level of river
flow would be maintained. The first stage
consultations should be start in June
2002. The action plan should be
forwarded to the Bank by July 2002.
- 51 -



INDIA - Nathpa Jhakri Power Project - Loan 3024A-IN
ICR MISSiON AIDE MEMOIRE - Annex 4
DAM SAFETY ASPECTS
1. Nathpa dam is a concrete gravity structure founded in sound rock mass . The dam site is located in a
deep gorge with steep slopes. Dam height is about 60 m, reservoir capacity 3.4 Mm , maximum pondage
area 22 ha. Construction quality has been supervised according to international standards. Anti-seismic
design of the dam has been carried out according to Indian norms, using an acceleration of 0.29g at crest
level. Flood handling facilities include 5 bottom sluices (8.5m x 7.5m) that are also used for flushing
sediments out of the reservoir pool. 4 of the sluices are sufficient to discharge 5,660 m /s that correspond
to the 1 :10,000 years flood. The sluices are controlled by radial gates. Gate operation is motorized, with
back-up diesel generators, manual operation is also possible. Dam instrumentation is considered adequate.
Particularly important, given the type of structure, are the foundation piezometers, global movement
measurements, and the strong motion accelerographs. Based on the above, it can be concluded that Nathpa
dam should be considered a very safe structure. Achieving adequate operation reliability should therefore
be the Owner's main concem.
2. The main hindrance to operational reliability is represented by the access road from Jhakri to the Nathpa
dam site. As a matter of fact, access to the dam site cannot be guaranteed during the monsoons, especially
in the case of emergencies, because the road can easily be interrupted at several locations by mud and! or
rock slides of different magnitude. Dam operators should be equipped and trained to run the site without
relying on support from Jhakri for the longest possible period during the monsoons. This provision should
be fully incorporated in the Operation and Maintenance Plan (see below). At the same time, all efforts
should be made to improve accessibility by enhancing the road maintenance program. To this effect, it is
recommended to carry out a Road Accessibility Risk Assessment. Based on visual inspections and review
of maintenance records, a rock engineer should: a) locate areas of major mass movement risk; b) assign
annual probability of occurrence; c) estimate costs and time for rehabilitation; d) identify resources, and
calculate a realistic annual budget for access road maintenance. Steps should be taken to ensure that there
is a reliable communication system between the Dam at Nathpa and the power generation facilities at
Jhakri. This system should remain operational under the most adverse conditions and reliance cannot be
placed on conventional telephone lines for this purpose.
UNDERGROUND WORKS
3. The Nathpa-Jhakri hydroelectric scheme includes world-class underground works. Most of them have
been completed to date. Important activities are still going on at the 4 de-silting chambers that represent a
unique feature of the scheme. Excavation and reinforcement of the chambers has been adequately planned
and detailed design is available. Out of the tasks to be performed, the following ones are worth particular
attention:
a. Reinstatement of rock profile where local rock falls have occurred, and repairing cracked portions
of shotcrete;
b. Pre-support of the lower parts (settling trenches) of the chambers;
c. Drainage holes to final lining.
22
Foundation grouting reportedly showed a cement take in the range of 30 to 100 kg/m.
- 52 -



As recommended by the Panel of Experts (POE) no high pressure grouting of the rock should be carried
out since this will decrease the permeability of the rock mass, which will adversely affect its drainage
characteristics.
4. As stated by the POE, the remaining excavations, as well the modification of hydro-geological
conditions during plant operation will cause stress re-distribution around the chambers. This may cause
some additional, minor rock detachment and surface spalling. While these phenomena should not threaten
global stability of the openings, they should be adequately monitored and repaired.
The provision of cranes in the chambers will permit repair works by allowing access to the roof, haunches
and upper chamber walls.
5. Given the importance and the complexity of the remaining underground activities, it is absolutely
necessary that adequate expert advice is available on site. Dr. Evert Hoek, the rock mechanics specialist in
the POE, will no longer be available to visit the project. While it is true that most underground works have
successfully been completed, the remaining works at the de-silting chambers still require a lot of expert
assistance. It is strongly recommended that the assistance of an experienced rock engineer/ engineering
geologist be secured during the remaining underground excavations at the de-silting chambers. The
assistance should also cover the first de-watering of the chamber, as well as the preparation of the
accessibility risk assessment. Terms of reference should be prepared based on the POE's recommendations
(re. 28th POE, November 2001).
6. Final lining is being placed in the invert of the upstream part of the headrace tunnel. Lining in the upper
part of the section has already been placed. Quality looks good. Lining is expected to be completed by
April or early May 2002. Flooding of the powerhouse in August 2000 caused 95% damage to the already
installed equipment. Rehabilitation works are being carried out very efficiently and it is expected that unit
#4 will be in operation by January 2003. Landslide rehabilitation works have been completed at the tailrace
tunnel outfall. Rock anchors in the lower slopes and drainage in the overburden are the main components of
the works. Instrumentation includes tilt-meters, piezometers and surface movements.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN
7. Based on the satisfactory status of construction works, the mission believes that consideration should
increasingly be given to operation and maintenance aspects. The experience gained during construction
should be carefully incorporated in the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) Plan of the entire project (Dam,
Waterways, and Power Plant). This should be regarded as a continuous process in which all the staff that
are involved in construction supervision and management will have to interact with the Designers and the
Operators to ensure the Owner that the project will be operated in a reliable and safe manner.
8. A key instrument in establishing satisfactory O&M procedures is to make a comprehensive set of
as-built drawings available at the project site. This task is being undertaken by the Design Unit of NJPC.
The as-built drawings and the key design and construction reports, represent the "historical document" of
the project.
9. The O&M Plan should include key performance indicators (including deformations, see page rates, and
pressures) for monitoring structural behavior of the main components of the complex. Performance
indicators are derived from design assumptions/ analysis as well as from observations during construction.
- 53 -



Significant information is available , but it needs to be organized otherwise, as observed in several
projects worldwide, it could soon be lost.
10. Among others, the following elements of the Nathpa Jhakri scheme should be given particular
consideration in the O&M Plan:
a. Bottom sluice operation for flood handling and sediment routing;
b. Erosion of bottom sluices walls;
c. Self-sufficiency of the Nathpa dam site during the monsoons;
d. De-silting chambers behavior during de-watering (drainage effectiveness and lining stability);
e. Flood waming systems.
11. Safety of personnel, during plant operation, should be carefully covered in the O&M Plan. The nature
of the works and the harsh mountainous environment at Nathpa Jhakri constitute hazards that should not be
overlooked. Due to unreliable access to site during the monsoons, staff at Nathpa dam should be
self-sufficient as long as possible during such period. An accessibility risk assessment should be carried out
for the Jhakri Nathpa road.
12. The excellent O&M manual of Bakhra dam could be used as a reference framework, with obvious
adaptations to the Nathpa Jhakri conditions. As a further reference, Annex A contains an abstract from the
Canadian Dam Safety guidelines relative to the contents of O&M Plan, Instrumentation Plan, and
Emergency Preparedness Plans. The Instrumentation Plan and the Emergency Preparedness Plan are
normally two separate sections within the O&M Plan.
13. The Instrumentation Plan should contain the exact locations and details of the instrunent installations,
complete with plan views and cross-sectional drawings. Included with all descriptions of instruments should
be their initial datum, design limits, dates of and requirements for calibration, normal operating ranges, and
"alarm" levels at which point detailed review of the readings is required. The responsibility should be
assigned for routine instrument readings, changes to datum, calibration and interpretation of the results.
The mode and methodology of readings should be described, i.e. automated or manual. For key
instruments, which are considered crucial for the detection of anomalous behavior of specific structures, the
designer should provide threshold values in order to identify "alarm" levels during operation. Design
assumptions (including see page rates, piezometric levels, stresses, and displacements) and observations
during construction should be used to define the threshold values.
RIVER FLOW MANAGEMENT
14. Nathpa Jhakri is the first (after Bakhra dam) of a series of schemes under construction and planned on
the Satluj River. If both present and planned developments include informed management of river flows,
then water resources can be used whilst holding negative impacts at levels that are acceptable to society.
Such managed flows can be used to ensure continued subsistence use of river resources by local
populations, or simply to ensure a better functioning and healthier ecosystem. River flow management
should consider both excessive flows (potentially destructive floods) and minimum flows.
Design reports, as built drawings, cavern and chambers Finite Element Analysis, quality control tests during
construction, POE recommendations, etc.
-54 -



Additional Annex 10. Attachment B- Beneficiaries Contribution
NJPC Contributions:
Subject : Implementation Completion Report.
1. The original project objective as per Page-25 of Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is to increase the power
capacity of
Northern Region System by developing 1500 MW of Hydro Power at Nathpa Jhakri.
2.0 As per SAR Page-25 the main components of the project are construction of Nathpa Jhakri Power
Station including.
a. A 60m high and 155m long gravity dam across the Sutlej river and intake, and
underground desilting chambers.
b. A 30 Km long head-race tunnel, about 1Om in diameter with a maximum capacity of 405m
/sec; which was finally constructed as 27.4 KM long, 10. 15M diameter.
c. A 130 m deep and 25m in diameter surge tank; which was finally constructed as 301m
deep.
d. Three steel lined pressure shafts 650m long and 6.Om diameter, bifurcating at the
downstream end into 60m long 4.Om in diameter branches;
e. An underground power house, transformer cavem and switchyard for 6x250 MW
generating units for a nominal head of 468m and ancillary equipment.
f. A 280m long, lOm wide arch type tail race tunnel discharging back in the Sutlej river;
which was finally constructed as 992 m long 10.15 m diameter.
g. Implementation of a resettlement and rehabilitation program for the population dislocated
by the project.
h. Implementation of a plan to protect the environment in the project area; and
i. Consultancy services as needed for design and supervision of the construction of the power
station.
3.0 The schedule for commissioning of all the six units with reference to the project Schedule indicated in
the SAR vis-a-vis as envisaged during the execution of the project from time to time is indicated as under:-
S.NO. Description   As per SAR    As per As per       As per Compressed
RCE-I RCE-II        RCE-III       Schedule
1.     Unit-I       Oct.95        Jan.98.Dec.01        Jul.04.      Dec.03
2.     Unit-Il      Dec.95        Jun.98.Jan.02       May.04        Dec.03
3.     Unit-III     Apr.96        Sep.98.Feb.02       Feb.04        Jul.03
4.     Unit-IV      Jul.96        Sep.98.Feb.02       Dec.03        Jul.03
5.     Unit -V      Oct.96        Dec.98. Mar.02      Sep.03        Dec.02
6.     Unit -VI     Dec.96        Dec.98. Mar.02      Nov.03        Dec.02
- 55 -



4.0    From the above it can be seen that there has been a delay of seven years and seven months in
commissioning all the units as per RCE-HI schedule when compared to the schedule envisaged in SAR and
a delay of 7 years as per compressed schedule. There has been start up delay of about 4 years and a delay
of about 3 years during the execution of the project due to the reasons briefly indicated as under
a. Start up Delays:
i. Short listing of bidders for Major Civil Works.
b. Finalistion and issue of bidding documents for Major Civil Works.
c. Award of contract for Major Civil Works
d. Selection of Turbines
b. Delays durin2 Execution:
i. Non availability of adequate construction power
b. Poor condition of National Highway (NH-22)
c. Change in rock classification
d. Change in design of rock support system
e. Inadequate telecommunication facilities.
f. Rock slide in the Right Bank of Dam area and Right bank slope stabilisation.
g. Change in the length of the diversion tunnel.
h. Left bank slope stabilisation.
i. Load restriction put on sholding bridge by HPPWD.
j. Encountering of shear zones.
k. Extreme hot temperature encountered in HRT excavation.
1. Introduction of stiffeners in steel liner.
m. Delay in issue of construction drawing due to poor response of equipment suppliers in providing
engineering inputs.
n. Delay in issue of construction drawings due to consultations with CWC, CEA, Retainer
Consultants, Special consultants & POE.
o. Flash flood in River Satluj in August, 1997 and August 2000.
p. Delay in award of balances Electro mechanical packages.
q. Delay in resolution of equivalency between NJPC direct recruits and HPSEB seconded staff.
r. Delay in resolution of the contractual issues and settlement of claims made by major contractors
due to extension of time.
5.0    Assessment of Design Experience
Basic designs for various components of the project such as the Dam, Intake, Desilting, Tunnel,
Surge-Shaft, Pressure Shaft, Power house, Transformer Hall and Tail Race etc. were carried out in-house
by the NJPC Design Organization. Essential hydraulic model studies, and numerical modeling and dynamic
analysis were undertaken by involving Specialist Organizations like CWPRS, Pune; IRI, Roorkee; NIRM,
CSMRS, IIT Delhi, NHPC, University of Roorkee and PeC, Chandigarh etc. A state-of - the art design
approach was adopted for the complex structures with the assistance of the Consortium of the Retainer
Consultants comprising M/s Nippon Koei, Japan, M/s Electrowatt Engineering, Switzerland and M/s
WAPCOS, New Delhi; the Principal Consultant, CWC and the Panel of Experts.
There is, however, scope for improvement for other projects because concurrent design usually leads to
contractual disputes, time delays and cost overrun. For speedy implementation of hydro-electric projects, it
is absolutely necessary that thorough and detailed planning and design is carried out at the specification
- 56 -



stage itself. Specification drawings should be, by and large, complete except detailing aspects. Complete
documented (printed) record of conceptual design at specification stage must be available for reference and
review at construction stage. More time should be spent on the collection of data through field and
laboratory tests during the specification stage, such that, it is only confirmatory information which is
resorted to at construction stage. At the stage of preparation of conceptual design itself, requirement of
model studies, numerical modeling, dynamic analysis and other tests, all of which are time consuming, must
be visualized and undertaken, as far as possible, with a view not to hold up the work when construction
commences.
There is also a need for training personnel, in advance, in use of software for computer aided - design and
drafting with a view to not only increasing efficiency but also making the design activities more versatile.
With more thorough initial investigations, detailed planning and sufficient detailing in design before
commencement of construction, issues such as (the uncertainty about foundation level of dam, error in
survey bench mark and consequential necessity-for raising the dam height in Phase-II,) relocation of
spillway, bank stabilization in dam complex through high capacity cable anchors etc. for Nathpa
Hydro-electric Project would not have cropped up during construction stage of the Project and variations in
the BOQ items/Quantities could be minimized.
6.0    Implementation Experience
The personnel deployed by NJPC for supervision of the execution works were well technically qualified.
However, they did not have the exposure to contractually handle such large valued FIDIC based contracts
which resulted in the referal of many disputes to the Dispute Resolution Board (DRB) for their resolution.
7.0    Arrangement for the early completion of the Project
In the aftermath of a devastating flood (occurred in August 2000) which submerged the Power House and
badly affected the Electro-mechanical equipments already erected and those awaiting erection in the Service
bay (besides the Infrastructure of the Project,) various meetings were held with EUCONA-BHEL and all
the major civil works contractor and a compressed schedule by accelerating various activities was worked
out. The 'Post Flood' schedule of commissioning of all the units was progressively between September,
2003 and July, 2004.
However, in 2001 it was decided to work on an even more ambitious compressed schedule to achieve the
following commissioning dates:
Water availability for Commissioning            October, 2002
Commissioning of Unit # V                       December 2002
Commissioning of Unit # VI                      December 2002
Commissioning of Unit # IV                     July 2003
Commissioning of Unit # III                    July 2003
Commissioning of Unit # II                      December 2003
Commissioning of Unit # I                       December 2003
- 57 -



The feasibility of implementing this programme increased with the rate of progress of various works in
2001/2002, as well as for the undermentioned decisions taken and the speedy resolution of problems.
i. Decision for installing 3 rows of concrete beams at 3 different levels on both walls in each
desilting chambers held in position by cable anchors 7m apart.
ii. Decision for increasing lift height restriction in the Dam concreting.
iii. Events of adhoc advances of the Dam and Tunnel Contractors for increasing the cash flow
of contractor.
iv. Effective co-ordination and resolution of issues with Gates & Hoists Contractors and
ensuring that the schedule of supply of the Gates & Hoists dovetails into the compressed
schedule of NJHEP completion.
v. Effective co-ordination and resolution of issues with EUCONA the main equipment supply
and erection agency including issues pertaining to insurance claims were settled due to
which EUCONA took acceleration measures to dovetails its schedule of requirement of
NJHEP.
vi. Resolution of problem of equivalency between the NJPC Direct recruits and Seconded
staff of HPSEB.
Thus Contract 1.0 which includes construction of Dam, Intake structure and Desilting complex is now
(May 2002) expected to be completed by September-October 2002 in all respects. The whole of HRT is
expected to be completed by October 2002, by which all other works under Contracts 2.1 and 2.2 are also
expected to be over. Under Contract 3.0, the power house complex is in an advanced stage and the work is
likely to be completed by November 2002 along with the completion of Tail Race Tunnel structure.
Also, it is anticipated that Electro-mechanical works of Power House and Power evacuation systems etc.
would be ready for testing and commissioning by October 2002, i.e the date of availability of water as per
the new schedule.
8.0    Financing plan to project completion (RCE-1It)
Based on the commissioning of all the units progressively from September 2003 to July 2004, the revised
cost of the project to completion has been estimated at Rs. 9169 crores which includes Civil Works of Rs.
4178 crore, Electro-mechanical works of Rs. 1664 crore, Infrastructure Expenses of Rs. 491 crore,
Incidental Expenditure During Construction (IEDC) of Rs. 598 Crore and Interest During Construction
(IDC) of Rs. 2263 crore less infirm Power of Rs. 25 crore. It shall not be possible at this juncture to make
the assessment of revised cost to completion with respect to accelerated programme of commissioning of all
the Units progressively between December 2002 to December 2003 as the various additional
inputs/resources required to achieve this ambitious schedule has not been worked out at this stage.
The total revised cost of the project of Rs. 9169 crore (Cost to Completion) is proposed to be financed on
1: I Debt Equity Ratio. The total equity now works out to about Rs. 4585 crore which shall be shared by
GOI and GOHP in the ratio of 3:1 on original pattern/MOA. The total loan component works out to about
4585 crore which include IBRD loan of Rs. 1538 crore, Buyer's credit of Rs. 785 crore, PFC loan of Rs.
1118 crores and funding Gap ( i,e funds still to be tied up) of about 1145 crore.
The funding gap in the dept portion shall be bridged by raising funds from domestic financial institutions,
banks or by issuing bonds. Also, "In Principle" clearance for Rs. 564 crore loan (over and above Rs.
1118.00 crore already tied up) from PFC is available. NJPC does not foresee any problem in arranging
additional funds for completion of the Project.
- 58 -



9.0    Arrangement for power sales
Besides providing 1500MW of peaking power to the Northern Grid, on commissioning, NfHEP will
generate 6732 million units of electrical energy in 90% dependable year and 7513 million units in a 50%
mean year. 12% of the power is to be supplied free of cost to the Himachal Pradesh and 25% of the
remaining 88% of power generated, will be supplied to HP at the Bus Bar rates. The balance power
available shall be distributed amongst the Northern Regional Grid States based on their actual energy
consumption as well as the quantum of the central assistance to them of the Gadgil formula.
Based on the Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) being finalised by NJPC, the PPAs shall be signed
between NJPC and the Constituent States of the Northern Regional Grid viz. Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal
Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh. The constituent
States of Northern Grid have evinced interest for purchase of power from NJHEP.
10.0   HR/Staffing Plan
The exercise to fmalise the O&M manpower for Nathpa Jhakri Hydro-electric Project has been completed.
A total number of 631 manpower shall be required for O&M stage out of which 30% shall be drawn from
HPSEB on permanent absorption basis through selection. Existing manpower will be re-deployed in O&M
of project to the extent possible. For balance O&M manpower, appropriate recruitment action will be
undertaken. Action for recruitment of Electrical Engineers has already been initiated for which an
advertisement has been taken out. We have also taken up the matter with HPSEB requesting them to send
the applications of willing employees for consideration of their selection in the various categories of O&M
Stage.
11.0   Financial & economic analysis as per RCE-III
The financial and economic data of the Project have been analysed for a period of 35 years i.e equivalent to
the assumed useful life of the Project. The financial Intemal Rate of Return works out to 16.22% and the
Economic Internal Rate of Return works out to 18.04% at Cost to Completion as per the details provided
separately to the Bank.
12.0   Information and entity audit and SOE audit
The details in respect of entity audit and SOE Audit are enclosed.
13.0   Expected tariff of RCE-LII and tariff ranking of other generation projects coming on stream
in India in FY 2003-2005
Based on the present enactment in force, and norms given by the Availability Based Tariff (ABT)
notification, the average weighted rate of cost and sale of energy generation have been worked at the
Proposed cost to completion and are enclosed. In 90% dependable year, the weighted cost of energy and
sale rate after allowing 12% free power to GOHP, works out to Rs. 1.68/Kwh and Rs. 3.1 7/Kwh
respectively.
With respect to the data for Hydro and Thermal Projects being executed by NHPC & NTPC .as enclosed
and it can be concluded that NJHEP is suitably placed in terms of Tariff ranking.
- 59 -



14.0   Role of World Bank
Right from the inception of the Loan assistance, the World Bank has been quite cooperative and
considerate. The World Bank besides institutional development of NJPC in specific, also oriented its efforts
towards the restructuring of Power Sector as a whole. Further, the encouragement provided by the Bank
with respect to Environmental, Relief & Rehabilitation measures, is appreciable. It is very essential to place
Bank's cooperation on record, in assisting NJPC for:
*   Finalization of Contracts specifications, finalization of the type of generation station,
preparation and finalization of bids.
*   Resolution of various issues / disputes involved with the executing agencies.
*   Finalization of Project Implementation Schedule and its close monitoring and suggestions
of various ways to squeeze the schedule.
*   Finalization and implementation of Environmental and Relief & Rehabilitation
programmes.
The Bank had also shown deep interest in Organization development, by associating closely with the
creation of Environment, R&R and Commercial Department in NJPC.
The Bank's role in identification of problem areas after in-depth interactions with all the concemed
personnel and periodic site visits, offering various solutions and encouraging NJPC to adopt the proposed
solution for effective and expenditure implementation of the Project, has been commendable.
15.0   Rehabilitation & Resettlement plan and remedial action plan for SOCIO-ECONOMIC
development of the project affected families
(i)    Rehabilitation & Resettlement Plan - For execution of Nathpa Jhakri Hydro Power Project
223-96-22 ha. of private land has been acquired from 480 numbers of families of Distt. Shimla & Distt.
Kinnaur. A Resettlement and Rehabilitation plan was adopted in Dec. 1991 for rehabilitation of such
Project Affected Families. The provisions made under the plan are providing altemative land, constructed
house or cash assistance in lieu thereof (if house is also acquired) and employment to landless families and
preference in allotting shops in shopping complex of NJPC to affected families etc. Further, provision has
also been made in the Land Acquisition Awards to provide plots to displaced shopkeepers in Market
Complex. Apart from the undertaken activities of R&R NJPC has contributed substantially towards the
community development (education and health) and area development (roads, buildings, drinking water
etc.) around the Project area benefiting the affected villages as well as villages in the vicinity of the Project.
Implementation status of the benefits provided under the provision of R&R Plan has been depicted at
Annex.-VIII from Sl. No. 1 to 6.
(ii)   Remedial Action Plan - A socio-economic survey covering all the Project Affected Families
(PAFs) was conducted in year 1996 with retrospective effect. Based on analysis of the survey report
(socio-economic data and village profile) a Remedial Action Plan (RAP), in supplementation to the existing
RR plan, with Income Generation schemes for weaker section of the PAFs, benevolent health services,
quality education facilities and comprehensive area development packages has been adopted in November
1999. Implementation status of the benefits provided under this provision of RAP has been depicted at
Annex-VIII from Sl. No. 7 to 10
(iii)  Plan to complete R&R and RAP Activities in Future - The provision of the plans have been
enriched with a view to not only to retain the list socio-economic standard of the affected communities but
also for to raise their previous socio-economic standard and to provide them support for living a life of
- 60 -



quality. To implement the plans, effective methodologies have been adopted in the plans however for the
continuation of the activities in future and success of the efforts made for its implementation it has been
decided to implement the plan in present as well as in future with the participation of the affected
communities and close link with HP Govt. officials.
16.0   The status in respect of Environment Management Action Plan
1.     Monitored works through the Forest Deptt.
i)     Compensatory afforestation - The work is being carried out by HP State Forest Deptt., details of
work done upto March, 2001 are given in Annex.-IX.
ii)    Environmental protection works: afforestation, land stabilization & stabilization of drains -
The work is being carried out by HP State Forest Deptt., details of work done upto March, 2001 are given
in Annex.-IX.
iii)   Avenue Plantation - The work is being carried out by HP State Forest Deptt., details of work done
upto March, 2001 are given in Annex.-A.
iv)    Quarry area Conservation - NJPC has prepared the restoration plan of quarry area through
consultant. The Plan has been forwarded to HP State Forest Deptt. for their approval. Further action for
implementation of restoration plan shall immediately be taken after receipt of comments/suggestions of
Forest Deptt.
2.      Catchment Area Treatment (CAT) Plan
i)      Preparation - The CAT Plan has been prepared and is under consideration of HP State
Govt./Ministry of Environment & Forest for approval.
ii)    Implementation - Implementation shall be done as per the schedule of CAT Plan after receipt of
approval from Forest Deptt./Ministry of Environment & Forest.
3.      Reclamation of muck disposal sites - NJPC has prepared the restoration plan of muck disposal
sites through consultant. The Plan has been forwarded to HP State Forest Deptt. for their approval. Further
action for implementation of restoration plan shall immediately be taken after receipt of
comments/suggestions of Forest Deptt.
4.      Environmental Monitoring - The work of carrying out four season base line pre-operation
environmental monitoring for one year i.e. 2002-03 and post operation environmental monitoring has been
assigned to HP State Pollution Control Board.
5.      Sustenance & enhancement of fisheries - The work for development of fisheries in Nathpa Jhakri
reservoir and main Satluj river has been assigned to HP State Fisheries Deptt. The duration of programme
shall be two years i.e. from April, 2002 to March, 2004. Out of Rs. 1.6 crores approved by NJPC for this
programme a sum of Rs. 50 lacs has also been released for initiation of the programme. The fisheries deptt.
has started the work on re-modeling of trout fish farm.
- 61 -



17.0   Lessons learnt from NJHEP experience
1. Extensive Investigation to be carried out to properly ascertain the classification and nature of rock
for underground works and for slopes in the Dam area and out fall area.
2. Designing the structure concurrently with execution leads to delay, contractual disputes, time delay
and cost over run hence thorough and detailed planning and design to be carried out at the
specification stage itself and complete conceptual design alongwith all the details are prepared
alongwith the results of model test and completed as Design Intent Memorandum (DIM) so that
during the construction stage the detailing in design is carried out by referring to DIM only.
3. Master list of drawings for all the packages should be available in advance and time bound action
plan to be tied up upfront.
4. The Engineering inputs from various equipment suppliers to be tied up properly and some payment
attached to submission of such engineering inputs to ensure promptness on the part of suppliers.
5. Consolidated BOQ's is to be revised as and when the drawings are revised/released for the major
civil works packages for which Cost Engineering Cell is created and attached with the Design
group.
6. Imparting intensive training in handling FIDIC based large valued contracts and Scheduling
exercise in order to keep a close monitoring on the progress of the work.
7. All the infrastructural inputs for the projects such as adequate construction power, National
Highway Road conditions, Telecommunications are to be tied up properly before the
commencement of the project construction activities.
8. Advanced flood warning system to be established so that incases of flash flood protective measures
could be under taken.
9. In the event of failure of the contractor for major works in execution/slow execution of works, a
provision to be made in the contract for signing of the tripartite agreement between the awarded
contractor, NJPC and other Third contracting party to expedite the works.
- 62 -



Annex-VIII
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS OF DIFFERENT ACTIVITIES UNDER REHABILITATION &
RESETTLEMENT PLAN AND REMEDIAL ACTION PLAN
Si.  Action            Target  Progress   Revised     Remarks
No.                                       Target
Date
1    Payment of cash in  43    43(100%)   Completed   -
lieu of alternative
house
2    Employment in     52      51(98%)    Completed   One family could not be
NJPC                                             offered employment due to
want of eligible nominee.
3    Allotment of built  16    16(100%)   Completed
up houses
4    Land for land     41      41 (100%)  Dec.2001
5    Allotment of shop  77     66(73%)    March,      Balance allotment is under
plots                                2002        progress.
6    Shops in Shopping  -      3          -           Out of 7 numbers of shops in
Complex ,Jhakri                                  shopping complex 3 nos. of
shops have been provided to
PAFs on preference basis.
7    Mobile Health Van  1      1(100%)    Completed   The Mobile Health Van is
regularly visiting in the
villages.
8    Support for income  115   33 (29%)   31 st March,  The scheme is under
generation                          2002         progress.
activities to those
living below
poverty line
9    Income Generation  200    0 (0%)     31st March,  The scheme is to be launched
activities those who                 200         shortly.
lost part of their
assets
10   Small Infrastructure  Rs. 9.0  Rs. 6.6  31st June,  Remaining work is under
activities        (Million  Million  2002        progress.
_  .  (74%)
- 63 -



II          I   .      |   Annex-V
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
SI.No. Year            Com letion dates of
Provisional  Audited   Final
_____ ._______ Accounts    Accounts  accepted
Accounts
1    1988-89   13.09.1989 13.09.1989  16.11.1989
2     1989-90  25.09.1990 25.09.1990 28.09.1991
3     1990-91   19.09.1991 19.09.1991  27.09.1991
4     1991-92  28.10.1992 28.10.1992 23.11.1992
5     1992-93  24.09.1993 24.09.1993 30.09.1997
6     1993-94   12.09.1994 12.09.1994 07.10.1994
7     1994-95  19.01.1996 19.01.1996 31.01.1996
8     1995-96  23.08.1996 23.08.1996 27.09.1996
9     1996-97  28.10.1997 28.10.1997 31.12.1997
10    1997-98   19.08.1998 19.08.1998 28.09.1998
11    1998-99   23.07.1999 23.07.1999 20.09.1999
12    1999-00   22.08.2000 22.08.2000 29.09.2000
13    2000-01   30.08.2001 30.08.2001  28.09.2001
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER COPROATION LIMITED
SI.No.  Year    Completion dates of
SOE Audit
9    1996-97      27.02.1998
10   1997-98       03.12.1998
11   1998-99       29.09.1999
12   1999-00     February, 2001
13   2000-01       01.11.2001
-64 -



Annex-VIl
TARIFF OF CENTRAL SECTOR (NHPC) HYDROSTATIONS -
CONSTRUCTION INVESTIGATION & CONSIDERATION
S. Name of Project              Capcity      Commissioning Sale Rate Lev. Tariff
No.                                          Date          (approx.) |(approx.)
= Xth Plan (2002-2007)          (MW)         Months                Paise / KWH
1 Chamera-ll                     3x100=300        May-04       305            235
2 Dhauliganga-l                    4x70=280      March-05      255            250
3 Dulhasti                       3x130=390   December-03       510
4 teesta - V                      3x170=510    February-07     565
5 Sewa - II                        3x40=120    January-07      260            245
6 Teesta Low Dam Stage-Ill              132  December-06       365            295
7 Teesta Low Dam Stage-IV               168  December-06       455            295
8 Bav Stage-I                       1x18=18                    370            300
9 Bav Stage-Il                           37                    295 _
10 Farakka Barrage                 25x5=125     October-06
11 Upper Krishna Projects                     December-06
() Project Stage-I                                                     .-
(E  Project Stage-lI                     810
(iii) Project Stage-IIl
(v) Project Stage-IV
Total:-                              5310
_  JOINT VENTURE PROJECTS
12 Omkareshwar                    8X65 = 520   February-08      565            505
13 Indiresagar                   8X125- 1000       May-05       510            510
14 Puruila PSS                    4X225=900          2006       320            315
-65-



TARIFF OF CENTRAL SECTOR THERMAL POWER STATIONS
(NTPC) - SCHEDULED TO BE COMMISSIONED DURING Xth PLAN
S.                                         On Going Projects Approved by CCEA
NO.                 A                   Capacity (MW)       Cost of Generation
(PIKWH) (approx)
1   Simhadri                                1000                  215
2   Talcher Stage-l I                       2000                  185
3   Ramagundam Stage-lIl                    500                   235
4   Rihand Stage-Il                         1000                  205
B                NEW Projects cleared by CEA
(I) Coal Based
5 Sipat-l
Without Switch Yard TEC Cost            1980                  210
With Switch Yard Revised Cost           1980                  215
6   Kahalgaon-ll                            1320                  230
7   Barh STF with Switch Yard               1980                  245
(II) Naptha Based
8   Kawas Stage-Il                          850                   305
9   Anta Stage-Il                           850                   310
10  Auraya Stage-ll                          850                  310
11  Gandhar-l                                850                  320
C
(I) Coal Based
12  Sipat-ll with Switch Yard
13  VSTPP - III                              880                  240
14  NORTH Karanpura With Switch Yard        1000                  280
15  Kol Dam (Hydro)                          800                  235
16  Fguptpp_Il                               800                  280
1 x400                 315
17  NCTPP-1I                               I x 210                310
I _ __  __  __  __  __  __  __1         x 480                 370
D                New projects Under Management Approal
18  Chevur                                 2 x 500     |          315
- 66 -



Annex-DX
ENVROINENT MANAGEMENT
DETAILS OF EXPE)DIrURE NCURRED ON ENVRONMEB r PROTECTION THROUGH FOREST DEPTT.
SRACTVl                                        AREA    AMOUNT SPENT         TOTrALAMONTr
NO                                            IN HA    UPTO MARCH 2001
1 COMPENSATORtY AFFORESTATION #                 236        37,73,000          72,34,444
2 ENJORNNENT PROTECTION AFFORESTATION           205        19,84,500          1,31,86,445
3 SOIL  CONSER/ATION   (SUPAND) STABUSATION     75.2       87,36,650
1      1ADtWAJ TREATMENT
4 AVENUE PLANTATION ##                           5         12,94,000           27,25,000
5 MAINTENANCE                                              14,06200
2,31,45,889
* PACH-DA     QUARRY    (AFFORESTATlON)   SOIL             2,80,918            5,54,000
CONSERVATION & AVENUE PLANTATION WORKS
* AMOUNT INCURFED    IN  DISTRICT  KINNAUR ON               ,20,450
ACTilVES 1 23 & 5 (etas awaited)
Total:-                              1,96,95,718         Z36,889
# NUMBR OF TREES PLANTED IS 6,73,860 OF SELECTE1D SPECIES UKE CHIL, ROBNA
EUCLYPTUS, DEODAR, POPLAR & DRAKE
#  IN ADDMlON TO IT.9600 PLANTS HAVE BEEN PRANTED B NJPC IN PROJECT AREAk
- 67 -



CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
(HYDRO WING)
REPORT OF
TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMME
FOR
CEA/CWC/GSI HYDRO POWER ENGINEERS
NEW DELHI
APRIL,2002
- 68 -



REPORT ON TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMME FOR CENTRAL
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY/CENTRAL WATER COMMISSION/GEOLOGICAL
SURVEY OF INDIA HYDRO POWER ENGINEERS.
1.0     BACKGROUND
The need to upgrade the technical skills of CEA/CWC officers engaged in planning, design and
construction monitoring of hydro electric projects had been under consideration of the World
Bank since the time of finalisation of agreements for World Bank Assistance in respect of Sardar
Sarovar, Upper Indravati, Bodhghat and Lower Periyar H.E. Projects. Further, appointment of
foreign consultants for Indian projects as insisted by funding agencies like World Bank, OECF of
Japan was resulting in payment of large sums towards consultancy fee leading to higher project
cost. Keeping in view the large chunk of hydro electric potential available in the country which
was yet to be tapped, the World Bank suggested that Transfer of Technology Programme for
hydro power engineers may be executed with their financial assistance. Hence, provision for the
Transfer of Technology Programme was indicated in the proposal at the time of negotiations held
for Nathpa Jhakri Power Project with the World Bank.
2.0    SCHEME
The World Bank provided a loan of US $ 5 Million for implementation of Transfer of Technology
Programme under Loan Agreement No.3024-IN for Nathpa Jhakri Power Project signed on
18.5.1989. The objectives of the programme envisaged were to impart training to strengthen the
capabilities of CEA/CWC and other selected agencies to plan, design and manage hydro power
projects and associated works including the acquisition of specialised office engineering
equipment's, technical literature and computer hardware & software. One of the conditions
stipulated by the World Bank while sanctioning the loan was that the Transfer of Technology
Programme should be implemented with the help of a foreign consultant.
2.1     SALIENT FEATURES OF THE SCHEME
In line with the objectives of the Transfer of Technology Programme envisaged by the World
Bank while sanctioning loan, the Transfer of Technology Programme was planned to have the
following salient features:-
i. Training of CEA/CWC/GSI Engineers
Training of CEAICWC/GSI and other Government agencies' engineers in the following fields:-
* Hydro Power Planning
* River Basin Planning
- 69 -



* Hydro CivilJGeo-technical Designs
* Hydro Electrical/Mechanical Designs
*   Hydro Construction
*   Engineering Computer Systems
As per MOP's sanction order, a total of about 250 Nos. of CEA/CWC/GSI engineers were to be
provided training in the above fields including 56 engineers to be trained in the offices of
Consultants in Canada/USA.
ii. Computerisation in CEA/CWC
Keeping in view the complexity of hydro power development requiring highly sophisticated
computer programmes, procurement & installation of computers and softwares in CEA/CWC was
to be taken up.
iii. Procurement of Audio-visual system for technical lectures/presentations.
The provision of audio-visual system in CEA/CWC lecture halls was envisaged so as to provide
the latest audio-visual equipment required for arranging technical lectures/presentations.
iv. Procurement of Standards and Codes of Practices
Procurement of latest Indian/International Standards and codes of practices for CEA and CWC
libraries was envisaged so as to equip the libraries with the latest technical literature on hydro
engineering.
3.    CONTRACT FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF PROGRAMME.
The contract agreement between CEA and the leader consultant M/s. HQI, Canada of the joint
venture of M/s. HQI, Canada and M/s. Harza Engineering Co., USA was signed on 2.11.1993 for
an amount of US $ 4,341,582. The contract amount of US $ 4,341,582 reimbursable from the
World Bank comprised of a foreign exchange release component of US $ 3,914,121 and INR
component of Rs. 123.75 lakhs. The effective date of the contract was, however, defined as the
date on which the advance payment is received by M/s. HQI, Canada and M/s. Harza Engineering
Co., USA. The advance payment to Consultants was released on 29.3.1995.
The programme as per the contract was to be implemented in 3 (three) years period counted from
the starting date of the contract (30 days after effective date of contract i.e. 29.3.1995).
Considering 1.5.1995 as the starting date, the contract was to be completed in 3 years duration
i.e. by 30.4.1998. The activities of the progranmne were completed on 16.10.1998 at an
expenditure of US $ 3,136,062 and Rs.6,880,244 well within the contract amount.
- 70-



4.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION METHODOLOGY ADOPED
The Project Steering Committee was formed for the implementation of Transfer of Technology
Programme. The Steering Committee framed the broad guidelines and finalised the overall
programme for the training of Transfer of Technology and reviewed of the programme
implementation from time to time. For the implementation of the programme, a Project
Implementation Cell under the guidance of Project Steering Committee was formed having Chief
Engineer (HE& ;RM), CEA and Chief Engineer, CWC etc.
5.     SEMINAR/PREPARATORY WORKSHOP IN INDIA
A preparatory workshop/seminar was held in India on Hydro Electric Power Planning, River
Basin Planning from 23.11.1995 to 1.12.1995 in which 5 experts of M/s. HQI, Canada delivered
lectures on the following topics:-
-     Hydrology and energy production simulations.
-     Environmental aspects in pre-feasibility and feasibility levels.
-     Planning and investigation of hydro-electric projects.
-     Planning of hydro-electric power developments.
6.    TRAINING PROGRAMME
56 engineers from CEA/CWC & GSI were imparted training in the above fields at Consultant's
offices in Canada/USA. Training in Consultant's office was followed by on-job applications and
thereafter, in-India follow-up training programme wherein specific case studies and on-job
software applications were taken up to redress the problems being encountered during on-job
application. Total 436 engineering officers of CEA/CWC/GSI/PSUs/SEBs and other Govt.
agencies were trained under the programme.
7.    WORKSHOPS IN INDIA
Under the Transfer of Technology Programme, the following two Workshops subsequent to the
training in Canada/USA were arranged:-
i. Environmental Workshop for Hydro Power Projects.
ii. Ice Workshop
8.     PROCUREMENT OF COMPUTERS (UNDER "BUDGET FOR OFFICE
- 71 -



EQUIPMENT FOR CEA/CWC" OF THE CONTRACT)
50 Nos. Computers, 8 Nos. CAD Station, 2 Nos. Server and 2 Nos. Silicon Graphics Workstation
were procured under the Transfer of Technology Programme. A total of 36 Nos. softwares were
procured for the Hydro Power Planning, River Basin Planning and Design & Engineering for the
use of CEA/CWC & GSI. The other items meant for the use of CEA/CWC/GSI such as LCD
Projectors, Colour Laser Printer, Overhead Projector, Public Address System, Air-conditioners,
furnitures, photocopiers etc. were procured under the Transfer of Technology Programme.
A total 932 Nos. of Indian Standards publication, IEC & other literatures and reference books etc.
were procured for reference of CEA/CWC and GSI engineers.
9.    BENEFITS/UTILISATION OF TRAINING PROGRAMME
9.1     The technical know-how and training acquired under the programme by the engineers of
CEA/CWC/GSI/PSUs/SEBs in India and abroad, in the field of Hydro Power Planning, River
Basin Planning, Hydro Construction, Civil/Geo-tech and Electrical/Mechanical Designs and
Engineering Computer Systems respectively and the deliberations of the Hydro Electric
Planning/River Basin Planning Seminar as well as Environmental and Ice Workshops held in India
have benefited their respective organisations and the same is being utilized especially in
CEA/CWC as hereunder:-
-     For finalising the Detailed project Reports (DPRs) of hydro power projects in India as well
as for the Indian  Assisted Foreign Hydro Projects in the neighbouring countries of Bhutan
and Nepal.
-    For Design and Engineering including preparation of technical specifications, preparation of
layout and         construction drawings of large H.E. Projects in India and neighbouring
countries.
-     Monitoring the construction of the various on-going hydro electric schemes in the country.
Procurement of specialised office engineering equipment's, computer hardware and software and
technical literature pertaining to hydro power engineering for CEA/CWC has resulted in
upgrading the office facilities and the libraries in the two organisations. The lecture halls have also
been equipped with modem audio-visual facilities for arranging lectures/seminars using latest
gadgets for presentations.
Softwares procured under the River Basin Planning Module have been utilised for carrying out
reservoir simulations for different alternatives of FRLs to arrive at the most attractive/optimum
FRL for the reservoir and assessment of firm power and energy benefits from the hydro-electric
schemes. Studies considering scenarios of irrigation requirements and integrated operation of two
hydro power plants on one of the hydro scheme have also been carried out.
- 72 -



Softwares procured under Civil/Geo-tech Design Module are being utilised for design of different
civil components of hydro electric projects. Studies carried out include three dimensional
modelling for mass concreting, dynamic analysis for dam structures and slope stability analysis for
dam reservoirs.
9.2     Utilization by CWC
The engineers of CWC were introduced to softwares such as Novell Netware 3.12, Oracle 7.0,
AutoCAD R13 (Advanced drafting features and standardization) in the design areas, and also to
models viz., ATHENA (This programme is used to carry out optimization studies for a given
hydro electric complex in order to identify the most promising scheme and its dimensions
corresponding to a given firm energy demand) & SIMHYDE model (Simulation of Hydro
Energy), which is a hydroenergetic simulation model designed for several situations related to the
development and operation of all the components of an hydro electric system. These models have
been applied in Indian River Basins (especially Narmada River Basin to assess the performance of
Narmada Sub system by simulating the monthly flow data of about 9 years). The model could
very well assess the demand objective which could be met with permissible failure in specific
number of years of periods (months/weeks). The models are also used to estimate the total energy
generated along with secondary energy capability of the system under different operating criteria
within the permissible failure. These models are considered to be useful to be applied to a
development, or to a complex consisting of a number of developments or to part consisting of a
number of complexes. Network RDBMS (Related Data Base Management System) is since then
used for river data collection and compilation.
The following activities have been carried out under the IX Plan Scheme titled "Upgradation and
Modemisation of Information Technology in CWC" implemented by CWC:-
a. 641 node network spread over CWC Headquarters office.
b. Procurement and installation of 4 Servers to cater to the network requirement of
CWC.
c. Procurement of 247 Computers for offices at CWC Hqrs.
d. Implementation of network version of specialized design softwares such as
NASTRAN, NISA and STAAD.
e. Procurement of 21 Workstations for the design units of CWC, through which the
above mentioned design softwares are proposed to be accessed over the network
from the desk top of individual officers.
f. The development of internet package is under progress.
9.3     Utilization by CEA
Novell netware based Pentium Server was installed in CEA in new computer centre and
connected to high speed 24 port Ethernet Switch. 7nos 12 port manageable HUB's placed on
various floors and Ino 24 port intelligent HUB was connected to Ethernet switch through
redundant UTP cables. The LAN network with approx. 48 nodes was spread in the various floors
of building and connected hydro, thermal, power system, Planning, Economic & Commercial and
- 73 -



Grid operation wings of CEA. A INDIGO' workstation of M/s Silicon Graphics Inc. was
procured to provide high end computing platform and about 10 PC's, 4 nos CAD work stations,
printers, AO size plotter and other peripherals in LAN were also installed in new computer centre
foe centralized operation. The networked system is further connected to National Informatics
Centre (NIC), thereby giving access to Intemet, E-mail and NIC data base to all the users. The
new computer system was also connected to the existing computer system comprised of 4 nos.
EISA/ISA 80486 PC's working in UNIX environment with 30 dumb terminals located at one
place. A number of softwares like Novell netware, Windows, Oracle, Autocad, Fortran, C++, etc.
were also procured.
The procurement of above computer system included extensive training from supplier to system
users. About 10 different courses on IRIX system with usage of OSF Motif features, IRIX
Compiler, Fortran, Visual C++, Oracle, Oracle development tools, Windows, Power Builder,
Auto Cad, Hardware maintenance etc were framed in the contract. A total of about 130
officers/drafting staff in batches received the training.
On the successful installation of the system in 1998, N/s. HQI installed the specialized softwares
like WASP-3, FEP, COUCOU, POTEN, 10 SAPHIRE, MINERVE and SIMHYDE on the
system and conducted Indian portion of the training.
Since the installation of above system power potential, optimization and generation planning
studies have been carried out for various H.E. Schemes given as under:-
i)    Pancheshwar M.P.P. (5600 MW) - Nepal.
ii)    Kolodyne (120 MW)
iii.  Bairabi (80 MW)
iv.   Tamanthi M.P.P (1200 MW) - Myanmar
V.    Tuivawl         -    Capacity yet to be decided.
vi.   Tuirini        -    Capacity yet to be decided.
vii.  Kolodyne-IH        -    Capacity yet to be decided.
The training on Oracle and developer 2000 was utilized in creating a rationalized Data Base. The
Autocad is being utilized for preparing layout drawings, sketches, schematics for power stations.
The intemet through LAN provide lot of information on power sector and E-mail is extensively
being utilized for transfer of data to various agencies. The new computer system is also being
used for carrying out the following studies/tasks.
i) Generation Planning
ii. Load forecasting
iii. Power Planning Studies
iv. Power System Studies
v. Economic evaluation of Power Stations
vi. Estimation of Hydro potential for power generation
vii. River basin studies
viii. Simulation of hydro generation complexes
ix. Design of hydro and thermal power stations
x. Generation reports, technical specfications
- 74 -



xi. Office automation
xii. Preparation of Maps, drawings, charts etc.
xiii. Information storage and retrieval for data base management purposes.
The training in design and engineering are being fruitfully and effectively used in various
systems/fields of Tala H.E. Project (1020 MW) in Bhutan, Nathpa Jhakri H.E. Project (1500
MW), Sardar Sarovar H.E. Project, RBPH (1200 MW) and Indira Sagar H.E. Project (1000
MW).
9.4     Utilization by GSI
GSI personnel have utilized the training in the construction of head race tunnel for Nathpa Jhakri
H.E. Project (1500 MW) for shot-creting and rock bolting etc. The training was also fruitful for
the grouting of Nathpa Jhakri Dam. They have utilized the training in the geo-technical
investigation for the construction of Power House and Surge Shaft for Ranganadi H.E. Project
(405 MW) in Arunachal Pradesh.
10.0     EVALUATION OF WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
During the evolution and implementation of the project, the World Bank's cooperation extended
from time to time i.e. from Inception to Completion of the scheme was instrumental in achieving
various activities of the programme on schedule. The Bank provided the necessary guidelines in
relation to the Letter of Invitation (LOI) and Bank's guidelines for use of the Consultants. A
sample LOI was also sent by the Bank. The Bank has given suggestions for the technial evaluation
of the tenders in respect of weightages to be provided for various aspects. Timely receipt of the
necessary No Objection from the Bank in regard to the procurement of equipment/computer
hardware/Standards/literature as well as the items comprised under "Office Expenses in India"
was also of significant importance. The Bank's role particularly the contribution of Mr. Tony
Sparks and Mr. Sunil Khosla in reconciliation of the records/details of the re-imbursement claims
raised by CEA as well as the re-imbursement claims passed by the World Bank was quite
appreciable.
11.0     CONCLUSION
Consequent to upgradation of technical skills and office facilities, CEA and CWC are now fully
geared to provide state-of-the-art consultancy services for planning as well as design and
engineering of hydro power projects of any type and capacity. Keeping in view the greater thrust
being accorded by the Government of India for accelerated hydro development in the country, the
expertise gained through this programme would be put to maximum use in the near future.
The software users engaged in operation, are given updated exposure through various national
level training/workshops/seminars/symposia etc.
- 75 -



Annex-B
ASSESSMENT OF HPSEB ON ITS COMPONENTS UNDER NATHPA
JHAKRI PROJECT - LOAN 3024 - IN
1.0     INTRODUCTION:
World Bank approved a loan of $485 million on March, 2, 1988- which was made effective on 31 March,
1988 in favour of Govt. of India. The beneficiary of this loan were Nathpa Jhkari Power
Corporation(NJPC), Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board(HPSEB) and Central Electricity
Authority(CEA). In favour of HPSEB loan of the order of US $43 Million was sanctioned for corporate
strengthening and expansion of transmission network with on-lending terms as under:
GOI to Government of Himachal Pradesh (GOHP): about US $ 43 million as part of Central
Assistance to Himachal Pradesh for development projects on terms and conditions applicable at the time.
GOHP to Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) : about US $ 43 million with repayment
over 20 years, including 5 years grace period at GOHP's interest rate applicable at the time for its lending
to HPSEB (currently 10.5% per annum).
2.0     PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The main aim of the project was to improve the operational efficiency in the Board, enhance the Power
Transfer and utilization capability, increase the reliability and quality of supply. The same were proposed
to be achieved through:
i. Reinforcing and expanding the existing Transmission Network
ii. Modernizing and strengthening the Boards operations to achieve better load and
financial management.
3.0     ASSESSMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVE:
3.1.     Transmission Network Expansion:
The main objective of the Loan Assistance was to address the transmission of power inadequacies in order
to utilize the share from NJPC project of the order of 540 MW and enhance the inter-state Power Transfer
Capability by strengthening the existing Transmission Network and Power Transformation Capacity. The
objective was aimed to be achieved through:
1. Construction of about 500kM 132kV Transmission lines and associated sub-stations with
a capacity of about 184 MVA, tools, transport and equipment for construction and
maintenance for the overall control and operation of the HP power system.
2. Preparation of IO years transmission plan by the consultants.
3. Establishing a State Load Despatch Centre(SLDC) to effectively monitor and Control
the Powerflows.
The Power System of the HPSEB is operating in the five radial Zones and strengthening of system in these
zones under this project resulted in marked improvements in transfer of loads, quality and reliability of
Power and reduction of T&D losses. Zone-wise details of transmission lines & Sub-stations added under
this project are:
- 76 -



Zone-1( Dehar- Bhaba System)
Transmission Lines
a.     132kV D/C Line from Gaggal to Kunihar- 43kM
b.     132kV D/C Line from Kunihar to Solan- 20kM
C.     132kV D/C Line from Pandoh to Mandi- 19.7kM
d.     132kV D/C from Larji to Sarabhai- 20kM
Sub-StationsL: 132/33kV, 2x16 MVA Mandi, 132/33kV, 2x16 MVA Sarabhai)
ii)    Zone-2(Andhra-Khodri System)
a) 132kV S/C from Giri to Solan- 64 kM
iii)   Zone.3( Bassi-Hamirpur-Shanan -Kangra-System)
Transmission Lines:
a.     132Kv D/C Line from Anu(Hamirpur) to Mattansidh 5 kM
b.     132kV D/C from Gaggal to Hamirput- 43kM
c.     132kV S/C from Bassi to Palampur- 32kM
d.     132kV D/C line from Hamirpur to Dehra- 43kM
Sub-Stations : 132kV Interlinking Sub-Station at Hamirpur (Mattansidh),
132/33kV, 2xl6 MVA Palampur, 132/33kV, 2xl6 MVA, Dehra
iv)      Zone4( Pong-Jassore-Bairasiul) & Bhakhra- Rakkar-Una
Transmission lines
a.     132kV D/C line from Dehra to Amb- 27kM
b.     132kV S/C Amb to Una- 31kM
C.     132kV S/C Line from Dehra to Kangra- 30kM
d.     132kV Jassore-Kandrori line- 25 kM
Sub-Stations': 132/33kV, 2xl6 MVA at Amb, 132/33kV, 2x16 MVA at Una,
132/33kV, 2x16 MVA at Kandrori
v)     Zone-5(Giri-Kulhal System)
a) 132kV D/C Line from Giri to Kala-Amb= 33kM
Sub-Station ': 132/33kV, 2xl 6 MVA Kala-Amb
Total Transformation capacity= 64 MVA
Total Transfornation Capacity=-96 MVA
Total Transformation Capacity= 64 MVA
'Total Transformation Capacity= 32 MVA
- 77 -



The details of the achievements of the Transmission Components is analysed zone-wise in the ensuing
paras.
Power fro  Bhaba-P   r h      a b a            t              G iari-KunIha    Pn
\ ~Bassi-H     am  irpur-_I 
Shanan-Kangra           _                       assore-Pong -      
\      _                               ~~~~~~~~~~   ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~B a ir as iul I
3.1.1. Zone-l(Dehar-Bhaba System)
Power from Bhaba-Power House(120MW) is evacuted through 220kV D/C Bhaba-Kunihar -Panchkula
line. At Kunihar the voltage is stepped down to 132kV through 220/132kV, 2xO00 MVA Sub-Station.
Bhaba Power House is synchronized with BBMB owned 990 MW Dehar Power House. Now the Power
from Dehar is also drawn through 220KV Dehar-Gaggal (Kangoo feeder) with 220/132kV Sub-Station at
Kangoo ( 2x80 MVA). The major load centres of the this zone are gaggal(ACC-Cement Plant- 50 MW);
Darlaghat (Gujarat Ambuja Cement- 25MW) & Sarabhai. Although Bhaba Power House is synchrozined
with Dehar Power House, but yet we can draw or inject power of the order of 50MW only on 132kV from
the Dehar System due to system constraints. In the summer months, when our generation at Bhaba is full,
power gets injected to BBMB system which exceeds the 50 MW limit- for which BBMB used to resent and
consequently, we had to back down our generation. In order to address this problem the surplus power is
now used in our own load centres at Solan; Hamirpur; Sarabai and Mandi by constructing 132kV Kunihar
- Solan line; 132kV Gaggal - Hamirpur line; 132kV D/C Gaggal - Larji (Sarabai) and Pandoh - Mandi
line.
Thus this reinforced 132kV network offered us with renewed and greater flexibility to manage inter-zone
loads and to use the power available effectively.
3.1.2. Zone-2(Andhra-Khodri System)
In Yamuna Hydel projects earlier being owned by UPSEB(Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board), HPSEB
has about 126 MW share. As per bilateral agreement with UPSEB, the share of HPSEB will be subject to
physical drawl from these power houses. HPSEB is drawing the shares on 132kV Kulhal Giri and 220kV
Khodri-Majri-Giri lines. In the absence of adequate loads in Giri area, HPSEB has to surrender its big
chunk of share to UPSEB at the nominal rates- as per the provision in the bilateral agreements. This
- 78 -



situation demanded for dispersal of power to other locations. HPSEB had 132kV S/C Giri - Solan line but
it was inadequate to transfer the power of the order of 110 to 120 MW in addition to power from our own
generation at Giri Power House. Through World Bank loan Assistance, another new 132kV S/C line was
erected from Giri to Solan to disperse the additional power available as per our own shares at Barotiwala,
Baddi, Nalagarh and Parwanoo, which are the major load centres of HPSEB. With the comrnissioning of
this line, we are able to utilize 110 to 120 MW power and are able to utilize our shares nearly to its full.
3.1.3. Zone-3(Bassi-Hamirpur-Shanan-Kangra System)
At Bassi, HPSEB has its own Power House (60MW)- which is synchronized with Punjab State Electricity
Board owned Shanan (110MW) Sub-Station. Power from Bassi is evacuated through 132kV
Bassi-Hamirpur and Bassi-Shanan-Kangra line. At times, when Bassi and Shanan are generating to its full,
the Power flow on 132kV Shanan-Kangra is restricted by PSEB because of the limited capacity of
maximum 120MW on the line. Other outlet of power is 132kV Bassi-Hamirpur- Hoshiarpur(PSEB) line-
which was dependent on load requirement at Hoshiarpur(PSEB) area. At times, we had to backdown our
generation because of the aforementioned constraints. In order to alleviate this problems , proposals were
chalked out to disperse the power at other locations. In order to achieve this, 132kV line from Bassi to
Palampur, 132kV line from Hamirpur to Dehra, 132kV interlinking at Hamirpur, 132kV Hamirpur-Gaggal
(for inter-zone transfer of power) were erected through World Bank Loan assistance. Now, HPSEB is able
to manage its Generation and loads effectively.
3.1.4. Zone-4( Jassore-Pong-Bairasiul)
HPSEB has no power house of its own in this zone and the Power is drawn from Bairasiul owned by
NHPC or Pong HEP owned by BBMB. HPSEB was earlier having transformation Capacity of 100MVA at
Jassore which has now been enhanced to 150 MVA. In view of the sufficient power available in this zone,
it was thought prudent to disperse the power to Una/Amb areas - which were being fed from Bhakra Power
House owned by BBMB. The 132kV lines erected from Jassore to Dehra-Amb-Una increased the reliability
of the power supply in the area. The 132kV feeder from Jassore to Dehra and Dehra to Kangra for
inter-zonal transfer of power in order to meet the Contingencies or to meet the enhanced demands of the
consumers also stands commissioned under this World Bank Loan.
3.1.5. Zone-5(Giri-Kulhal System)
In this Zone, HP has Giri HEP(60MW) - which is synchronized with UP system. This power house while
generating at its full , HPSEB was unable to inject its power on 132kV Giri-Kulhal line because of the
System Constraints. Erection of 132kV line from Giri to Kala-Amb under World Bank loan assistance
helped HPSEB to disperse the power effectively.
3.2     Preparation of 10 Years Transmission Plan by the Consultants
The Transmission Plan was prepared with the help of inhouse expertise available with the Board.
3.3     Establishing of State Load Despatch centre
In order to improve the operational efficiency of the entire transmission Network and have effective
Generation and Load Management, State Load Centre was proposed to be made operational at Shimla with
Sub-SLDCs at Kunihar and Hamirpur. Implementation of this work was co-ordinated by Power Grid
Corporation of India with major share of financing and the project was commissioned during Jan., 2002.
With the commissioning of this project, Grid Parameters are being continuously monitored and the operator
-79 -



can now take suitable measures for optimal utilization of all resources. Besides, this any untoward
incidence with grid parameters assuming abnormal values can be averted. The SLDC has dedicated and
reliable communication with NRLDC (Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre). HPSEB has earlier been
penalized for injection of Power in the Northern Grid under high frequency regime but with the
commissioning of SLDC and Sub-SLDC's, this problem stands taken care of.
3.4     Modernizing & Strengthening the Boards Operations to achieve better Load and Financial
Management.
In the SAR, activities for enhancing efficiency in the workforce of HPSEB and that of addressing the
various intricacies associated with efficient  operations of various parameters like Load and Financial
management were envisaged to be achieved by way of the following measures:
i. Consultants study for Accounts and Management Information System
ii. Consultancy for improving the operational efficiency of HPSEB by proposing &;
implementing policies & practices & identifying a staffing & training programme &
equipment requirements (UMS study)).
iii. Computerization offunctions of HPSEB with specific focus on computerized billing &
accounting system (This activity was added in 1994-95).
4.0    EVALUATION OF HPSEB PERFORMANCE:
4.1     Transmission Lines and SLDC
HPSEB despite hilly terrain and hostile and inclement weather completed the project well within the time.
The bidding under World Bank financing through ICB route resulted in significant competition and
reasonable rates were obtained for most of the contracts. The World Bank has helped a lot in finalization of
design & specifications, tendering activities etc.
4.2     Modernizing & Strengthening of HPSEB
4.2.1     Consultancy services for Accounts, MIS and UMS Study:
HPSEB hired the services of two consultants for the purpose. One for Accounts and MIS and the other for
Utility Management Studies. The basic objective for studies as per SAR was to propose and implement
policies & practices and identify a staffing & training programme and equipment requirements which will
enable HPSEB to perform its projected responsibilities & functions for the next 5 to 10 years. These
studies were got carried out on the insistence of the World Bank although the organization structure was
found satisfactory for HPSEB's scale of operations. Unfortunately, these studies yielded no useful results
as most of the recommendations lacked justification and were found complex, away for ground realities &
non-implementable. Only part recommendations on Accounts procedure & Information Technology could
be adopted.
4.2.2     Computerization of functions of HPSEB:
In order to bring efficiency and transparency in the system it was observed that Computerisation of
functions of HPSEB is a sina-qua-non. Accordingly, a "Computer Master Plan" was prepared which was
approved by the World Bank in FY 94-95. This Plan was proposed for implementation in two phases to
achieve complete Computerisation of various functions relating to Administration, Finance & Accounts
Procedures, Billing & Energy Accounting and Technical studies etc. I" Phase was completed in 1998 and
for 2 Phase procurement and installation of Computer Hardware and Software has been completed in Jan.,
2002. Under this plan some customised softwares were also got developed for the activities like (i) H.T.
- 80 -



Billing (ii) L.T. Billing (iii) Personnel Information System (iv) Bank Reconciliation (v) Fund/Cash Flow
(vi) Accounts Compilation (vii) Pay Roll (viii) Tendering Activities (ix) Inventory Management & Control
and (x) MIS etc. All these softwares stand ported on the systems at different locations and are in operation.
Many tangible and intangible benefits have already been accrued on completion of I Phase and will be
further supplemented in due course of time with successful completion of 2" Phase. The expected tangible
benefits are (i) qualitative improvement in reports/studies (ii) savings on account of optimal designs (iii)
saving on account of extemal consultancies (iv) reduced requirements of manpower (v) increased revenue
realization. The expected intangible benefits are (i) improvements in operations (ii) enhanced individual
output (iii) effective corporate planning and design making (iv) improved individual satisfaction and work.
5.0    OVERALL LESSONS LEARNT:
a.     Project Preparation: The Project preparation was given adequate attention as per the
guidelines of  World Bank and the procedures so adopted are also being followed now on other
projects.
b.     The methodology of monitoring and review technique of the World Bank which has been
found very steak and point blank, can now be adopted by HPSEB management on its own projects.
c.     Engineering Challenges: The Transmission project under the loan involved extreme hilly
terrain and HPSEB got the lines designed inhouse. The softwares for Financial Management,
Computerized Billings and Personal Information etc were got prepared from the consultants. The
work of SLDC was co-ordinated by POWERGRID. Knowledge of engineers of this utility was
refreshed to take    care of the Latest State-of-Art Technology in this field in future and in
order to maintain the existing system, too.
d.     Procurementprocedures: It was a novel experience for HPSEB to undertake
t      tendering/procurements under ICB guidelines under World Bank which helped HPSEB to
identify right agencies which could take execution of project components with requisite technical
knowledge & financial strength.
e.     Formulation of contracts for implementation of project components in such a manner so
that financial requirements/commitments of the beneficiary strictly remain within the prescribed
limits. In the instant case total expenditure ending March, 2002 is to the tune of Rs.2080 million
whereas disbursement/reimbursement filed and received are to the tune of Rs.8 10 million only
meaning thereby the extra resources were to be tied up which has been more than the actual loan
component reimbursed.
f.     As per the lending terms GOHP is getting the money under this loan as Central Assistance
from GOI for development projects and further GOHP has to pass it to HPSEB with repayment
over 20 years, including 5 years grace period at GOHP's interest rate applicable at the time for its
lending to HPSEB (currently 10.5% per annum). In adoption of this procedure there has been
problems. Firstly HPSEB had to arrange finances from its own resources to clear the claims of
suppliers/ contractors then await for its reimbursement from World Bank to GOI to GOHP & then
to HPSEB which has never been forthcoming. Otherwise also it is a cumbersome process and
many a times resulted in abnormal delays. The procedure need simplification. Also the possibility
of making direct payment to beneficiary for the specific works and also to suppliers/ contractors
directly need to be explored before any future project is taken.
9.     To define the need, TOR, goals precisely for the consultancy studies.
6.0    WORLD BANK'S SUPPORT AND CO-OPERATION:
Right from the inception of the project, World Bank has played very proactive role in successful
implementation of this project. The World Bank has always been encouraging HPSEB's initiative of doing
- 81 -



things inhouse. The strict supervision and monitoring by World Bank has produced the desired results.
However the emphasis and the exercise of getting the consultancy studies done by the World Bank and its
outcome has proved contentious .
7.0    HPSEB COMMENTS ON THE WORLD BANK'S PORTION OF ICR
While appreciating HPSEB's efforts in completion of transmission components well within the time frame,
that too, much below the SAR costs, the World Bank expressed their displeasure for not adhering to its
covenanted level of return. Also, in contravention of its covenant with the World Bank, GOHP didn't pass
on to HPSEB the proceeds of the loan, which the World Bank has disbursed on behalf of HPSEB.
However, the World Bank acknowledges the fact that inspite of non-transference of loan proceeds, HPSEB
completed the job in time by arranging loans from other sources at higher interest rates.
8.0    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
8.1     Transmission Network: Out of the 15 Nos. 132kV Transmission Lines totalling 500KM
and 9 Nos. 132kV Sub-Stations with 184 MVA Capacity, 14 Nos. (one no. deleted), 436.864kM
lines and 9 Sub-Stations with 256 MVA capacity were erected by Dec., 2000. Various works
undertaken with completion dates are tabulated below:
- 82 -



TABLE 8.1
Sr.                                Name of Work                                  Year of Completion
No.
1.   C/O 132kV, 25km S/C line from Jassore to Kandrori with 132/33kV sub-station at  March, 1994/ Sept,
Kandrori.                                                                  1996
2.    C/O Interlinking S/Stn. At Hamirpur(Mattan Sidh)a/w 5km line to existing sub-stn. at Anu. June, 1996/Dec., 1996
3.    C/O 132kV, 43km D/C Line from Gaggal to Hamirpur with 132/33kV Sub-Station at  Dec., 1996
Gaggal.
4.    C/O 132kV, 32 km SIC Line from Bassi to Palampur with 132/33kV Sub-Station Palampur. Feb, 1997/March,
1997
5.    C/O 132kV, 43 km D/C Line from Hamirpur to Dehra with 132/33kV Sub-Station Dehra.  September, 1995
6.    C/O 132kV, 27 km D/C Line from Dehra to Amb with 132/33kV S/Stn Amb.       June, 1997/May, 1997
7.    C/O 132kV D/C Line from Pandoh to Mandi with 132/33 kV S/Stn. At Mandi.    Dec., 2000
8.    C/O 132kV, 31 km S/C line from Amb to Una.                                 Sept., 1997/Jan., 1998
9.    C/O 132kV, 30km SIC line Dehra to Kangra with 132/33kV S/Stn Kangra.       March, 1999
10.  C/O 132kV, 20km D.C Line from Larji to Sarabhai with 132/33kV S/Stn Sarabhai.  March, 1995/May,
1996
11.  CIO 132kV, 43km D/C Line from Gaggal to Kunihar.                            Dec., 1997
12.  C/O 132kV, 64km S/C line Giri to Solan,                                     Sept., 1997
13.   132kV, 33km D/C Line from Giri to Kala-Amb with 132/33kV Sub-Station Kala-Amb.  Oct., 1996/Sept., 1996
14.   132kV, 20km D/C line from Kunihar to Solan                                 Jan., 1997
15.  SLDC at Shimla with Sub-SLDC at Hamirpur and Kunihar                        Jan,, 2002.
The project has helped HPSEB to address the high Transmission Losses and take care of the erratic and
poor quality of power supply in various areas ( Table 8.3) . The Transmission losses in the State before the
inception of the project were very high which camne down to 21% (Table 8.4). The Voltage profile of the
various locations improved from 0.78 to 0.95 per unit as shown in the Figure-8.1. The establishment of the
SLDC has facilitated effective management of generation and load. The analysis of benefits accrued by
implementation of the project is tabulated below:
- 83 -



Year       Savings in Losses         Additional Sale of Power         Capital       Net Revenue
IExpenditure
Energy          Revenues    Energy     Cost     Revenues
(GWh)            Rs. Mn     (GWh)     Rs. Mn     Rs. Mn         Rs. Mn         Rs. Mn
1               2                3          4         5          6             7               9
1994-95            26               30         66        52         76            536            -481
1995-96            40               49         92        86         112           230            -154
1996-97            72               103        171       190        246           166              -6
1997-98            65               106        197      250         321           128             49
1998-99            105              181        302      408         523           128             168
1999-2000          125              246        329      634         647            51             208
2000-01            140              314        381       785        857            38             348
2001-02            140              315        404       832        909                           392
2002-03            140              315        428       882        963                           396
2003-04            140              315        454       935        1021                          401
2004-05            140              315        481       991        1082                          406
2005-06            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2006-07            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2007-08            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2008-09            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2009-10            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2010-11            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2011-12            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2012-13            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
2013-14            140              315        510      1050        1147                          412
EIRR                                                                                               26
(% )                                          .__      _   _      _   _   _  _   _  _   _      _   _   _
Notes:
Energy savings and additional sales estimated by HPSEB
Investment costs exclude IDC and an estimated 15% taxes and excise duties
Revenues estimated using annual average revenue/kWh for each year upto 2000-01 (Rs. 2.25/kWh) and held
constant thereafter
Incremental sales are projected to rise by 6% p.a for 5 years after completion, the same rate as HPSEB's sales from
1996-2001.
- 84 -



VOLTAGE PROFILE
0.9                         -
0.8       U
0.7
0.6 4                                                             Brt er  Project
0.5                                                                           eCt
>   0.4-
0.3-
0.2 -
0.1
0 
LOCATIONS =                                   Z
Figure 8.1
Table 8.3: Reliability analysis of the Power System of HP '
Failure Event at varous locabons                                 X (flyr)         r(houm)        U( hlyr)
Before Implementation of Project                          300-360               3.00 to 12.00  900 to 2160
After ImplementaUon of Project                            50 to 100             2.00 to 10.00  100 to 1000
Reliability Parameters
SAIFI                  SAIDI                CAIDI          AENS
Before Project                     0.75x102 to 0.9x102    2.25x102to 5.4x10     3-12          40.5MU to
97.2 MU
After Project                      0.125x102 to 0.25x102  0.25 to 0.54          2 to 10       1.5 MU to 15
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   M U
The following definitions were used for various reliability parameters
i N,,
cm   i. ,NB    (^ 't
M   9      (kwh Jyr.cUst)
- 85 -



Table-8.4 Detail of Transmission & Distribution Losses               |
Year       Energy         Transmission       Distribution        Total(MU)/%         Power
Require-ment   Loss(MU/%)         Loss(MU/%)                              Demand
1989-90    1226           154.022(12.56%)    186.930(15.25%)     340.952(27.81%)     280
1990-91    1392           177.896(12.78%)    227.669(16.36%)     405.565 (29.14%)    315
1991-92    1411            174.108(12.34%)   231.829(16.43%)     405.927(28.77%)     321
1992-93    1503           202.910(13.50%)    230.188(15.32%)     433.098 (28.82%)    355
1993-94    1544            135.44(8.77%)     265(17.16%)         400.44(25.93%)      384
1994-95    1809            112.58(6.22%)     388.16(21.46%)      490.10(27.68%)      425
1995-96    2129            124.12(5.83%)     438.247( 20.92%)    562.37 (26.75%)     453
1996-97    2334            123.12(5.27%)     471.187(20.12%)     592.84(25.39%)      470
1997-98    2622            134.286(5.12%)    555.221(21.18%)     689.51(26.30%)      474
1998-99    2744            153.611(5.60%)    614.644( 22.39%)    768.08 (27.99%      565
1999-2000  2934            152.588(5.20%)    610.354(20.80%)     762.932(26%)        568
2000-01    2973            150.00(5.05%)     618.119(20.79%)     768.119 (25.84%)    585
The following definitions were used for various reliability parameters:
8.2      Modernizing and strengthening of the Boards operations:
The Computerization process has successfully been implemented in the Board and various softwares got
developed for the purpose are fully operational. However, most of the recommendations given by
consultants under Accounting, MIS & UMS study were found too complex, lengthy, unnecessary &
non-implementable in this small electricity utility.
9.0     ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COST:
The project was executed much below the costs (in US $ terms) anticipated at the time of SAR. It was
anticipated that the total project cost would be US $ 85.5 million considering the assistance of US $ 43
million from the World Bank. However, there has been considerable savings i.e. about US $ 19 million on
the Loan Assistance during the period of project execution. The details of the project cost as per SAR v/s
Actual are given in Annex-2 of the World Bank' s ICR.
HPSEB's Annual Accounts - Details thereof:                   |
Year         Date of     Date of submission   Date to issue of   Date of submission
preparaton of  of A/Cs to AG, HP  certificate by the AG  of A/Cs to the Govt.
Annual A/Cs
1992-93        7.8.93           7.8.93             20.12.93            24.2.94
1993-94       14.7.94          14.7.94             11.11.94            15.12.94
1994-95       14.7.95          14.7.95             22.11.95            5.1.96
1995-96       11.7.96          11.7.96             29.11.96            31.12.96
1996-97       11.7.97          11.7.97            27.11.97             31.12.97
1997-98       14.7.98          14.7.98            20.11.98             30.12.98
1998-99       12.7.99          12.7.99            27.12.99            15.1.2000
1999-2000     13.7.2000        13.7.2000           24.11.2000          29.12.2000
- 86 -



2000-2001 l  13.7.2001       13.7.2001  l      10.12.2001   l    31.12.2001  l
10.0 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
The laying of transmission does not directly affect the environment, however, cutting of trees involved in
forest areas for adequate right of way of the line does affect the environment. Wherever necessary forest
clearance is obtained from the Environmental Ministry as per the statutory requirements. The Forest
authorities are suitably compensated for afforestation . Under this project no one was physically displaced.
The total land acquired for the sub-station was even less than 20 hectares. Similarly, for the transmission
towers the land owner lost only small part of total land as each 132kV transmission tower requires less than
100 Sq. meter of land. All the affected land-owners were paid compensation.
11.0 OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE & PERFORMANCE:
Critical analysis & evaluation of the project indicates that the project was implemented very smoothly in an
efficient & effective manner. The proactive role played by the World Bank since its inception in guiding
HPSEB in formulation of proposals, preparation of designs/specifications & the tendering activities besides
monitoring the progress of the project has yielded spectacular results. The SAR targets have been met &
project has been executed much below the costs (in US $ terms) anticipated at the time of SAR. Only the
component of the project which proved contentious has been HPSEB corporate strengthening.
- 87 -















MAGING                                1
24899
RePort No.: ,C
Type:     -C



