Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZL- , w                              l l
Report No. 7383-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I,)A
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
JANUARY 25, 1989
Asia Country Department 1V (India)
Transport and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the perforanmce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be discosed without World Bank authofitdion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -   Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00          -   Paise 100
US$1.00          -   Rs 13.30
Rs 1,000,000     -   US$76,923
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)             -  1,000 meters (m) - 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                  -  39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)           -  1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) - 35.35 c.ft.
1 Thousand Cubic Meter (MCM) -  1,000 cubic meters
1 Barrel (Bbl)               -  0.159 cubic meter
1 Normal Cubic Meter         -  37.32 Standard Cubic Feet (SCF)
of Natural Gas (Nm3)
1 Ton (t)                    -  1,000 kilogiams (kg) - 2,200 pds. (lbs)
1 Metric Ton (39 API)        -  7.60 barrels
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)         -  3.97 British Thermal Units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)              -  1,000 volts (v)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVa)      -  1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)              -  1,000 kilowatts (kW) - 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)        -  1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)        -  1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)        -  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)-  10 million kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA     -  Central Electricity Authority
CWC     -  Central Water Commission
GOHP    -  Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOI     -  Government of India
GSI     -  Geological Survey of India
HPSEB   -  Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC    -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MMCMD   -  Million Cubic Meter per day
MOU     -  Memorandum of Understanding
MPPD    -  Multipurpose Projects and Power Department
NHPC    -  National Hydroelectric Power Corporation, Ltd.
NJPC    -  Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation
NPP     -  National Power Plan
NREB    -  Northern Region Electricity Board
NTPC    -  National Thermal Power Corporation, Ltd.
PIB     -   Public Investment Board
REB     -  Regional Electricity Board
REC     -  Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB     -   State Electricity Board
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



INDI                               FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
WATHPA JHKRI POWER PROJECT
STAFF PPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Sumery ......................................   i-iii
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT ..............................................                  1
Overview ...........................................              1
Commercial Energy Resources ........ .       .............        2
Electricity Supply and Demand ......            ...............   3
Organization of the Power Subsector .....            ..........   4
Financial Performance and Tariff Structure .........              5
Power Subsector Planning ..........................               7
Management and Operations .........................               8
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector ....            .........   8
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector .... ....    11
Bank Gr;.ip Participation ..........................    12
II. THE BENEFICIARIES .............................................                 13
Introduction ......................................    13
Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation .....            ..............    14
- Background ....................................    14
- NJPC Management and Organization ....           ..........    15
- Field Organization ............................    15
- Financial Organization ........................    15
- Audit .........................................    16
Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board ....           ......    16
- HPSEB Background ..............................    16
- HPSEB Management and Organization ....           .........    17
- Personnel Staffing and Training ....           ...........    17
- Planning ......................................    18
- Engineering, Design and Construction ....          ......    19
- Operations and Maintenance ....................    19
- Materials and Stores Management ....           ...........    20
- Organization and Methods ......................    20
- Financial Organization ........................    20
- Accounting System .............................    21
- Fixed Asset Accounting ........................    21
- Audit .... .. 22
- Billing and Collections ......           .................    22
- Income Taxes ..........        ........................     23
- Electricity Tariff ........          ....................    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India in
November 1987. Mission members were Messrs. A. Sanchez (Principal Engineer),
P. Hubbard (Financial Analyst), W. Jones (Senior Economist). Mr. R. Goodland
assisted with environmental and resettlement aspects of the project on a
separate mission. The economic and financial sectiors of the report were
completed by Messrs. M. Tomlinson (Economist) and C.K. Teng (Financial Analyst)
respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official daties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizadon.



Pag2 No.
III.   THE  PROJECI                            ..................................................                                               23
Project Setting ....................................                                                            23
POroject Objectives .................................                                                           25
Project Description ................................                                                            25
Project Engineering ................................                                                            27
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule ...                                                            28
Water Rights .......................................                                                            29
Resettlement .......................................                                                            29
Environmental Aspects ...............................                                                           30
Project Cost .......................................                                                            32
Project Financing ..................................                                                            33
On-Lending  Arrangements   ...........................                                                          34
Procurement ........................................                                                            34
Disbursements ......................................                                                            35
Project Operation ..................................                                                            36
Project Monitoring .................................                                                            36
Project Risks ......................................                                                            37
IV.  FINANCE                  ............................                           ...........................                                37
Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation  ........                                        ..       .........             37
-  Introduction   ..................................                                                        37
-  NJPC   Financing   Plan   ...........................                                                    38
-  NJPC   Financial   Projections   ....................                                                    38
-  NJPC  Bulk   Supply  Tariffs   ......................                                                    40
Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board ..........                                                              41
-  Introduction   ..................................                                                        41
- Past and Present Financial Performance .... ....                                                           41
- HPSEB-Proposed Financial Recovery Program ......                                                          43
- Financing Plan .................................                                                          46
V.   PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...................                                                                           47
Least Cost and Demand Analyses  ....................                                                            47
Internal Economic Rate of Return of Program
Analysis ...................................   48
Project Analysis ..............                                                                                 50
VI.   AGREEMENTS  AND  RECON E                          ATIONS   ................................                                               51
Agreements   ........................................                                                           51
Recommendation   ....................................                                                           53



Page No.-
ANNEXES
1.1 National Electricity Supply and Demand from Public Utilities      54
1.2 Forecast of Regional Power Demand in india, 1987/88-1996/97       55
1.3 Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Subsector
(June  30,  1988)   ............................................  56
2.1 NJPC Organization Chart .......................................   57
2.2 HPSEB Orga..ization Chart ......................................   58
2.3 Avorage Tariff by Consumer Category ...........................   59
3.1 Detailed Project Description .60
*         3.2  Implementation Schedule for Physical Works .65
3.3 Summary Acq:unts by Year .66
3.4 Procurement Arrangements .73
3.5  Procurement 3chedule fcr MaJor Contracts .76
3.6  Sched&jle of Estimated Disbursements .79
3.7  Suggested Terms of Reference for Various Studies and
Consultancy Assignments: .80
(I)  Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for
the Power Plant .80
(II)  Suggested Scope for a Training Program for CEA, CWC,
GSI and Ocher Institutions .84
(III) Scope of Work for Utility Management Study .87
(IV) T'erms of Refe:ence for the Panel of Experts .89
(V)  Suggested Scope of the Bulk Supply Tariff Study .91
(VI)  Suggested Scope of Work for Accounting and
Management Information System (MIS) Study for HPSEB         93
3.8 Field Organization for Implementation of Nathpa Jhakri Scheme..   95
4.1 NJPC Forecast Financial Statements and Assumptions
for Forecast .96
4.2 HPSEB Historical and Statements Forecast
Financial Statements with Assumptions for Forecast ............  104
5.1 Electricity Demand and Supply - Northern Region ................  114
5.2 Internal Economic Rate of Return ...............................  115
6.1 Documents in Project File ......................................  127
NAP
IBRD No. 20515



-i-
nm
NATIPA JHARRI POWER PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower          : India, Acting by its President.
Beneficiaries    : 1. Nathpa Jhakri Pow'r Corporation, Ltd (NJPC)
2. Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB)
3. Central Electricity Authority (CEA), Central Water
Commission (CWC), and other agencies of the
Government of India (GOI)
Amount            : US$485 Million Equivalent
Terms             : Twenty years, including a 5-year grace period.
Onlending Terms  : Government of India (GOI) to Nathpa Jhakri Power
Corporation (NJPC): about US$437 million equivalent
with repayment over 20 years including 5 years grace
period at an interest rate of not less than 14.5% per
annum.
GOI to Government of Himachal Pradesh (GOHP): about
US$43 million as part of Central assistance to Himachal
Pradesh for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
GOHP to Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
(HESEB): about US$43 million with repayment over 20
years, including 5 years grace period at GOHP's
interest rate applicable at the time for its lending to
HPSEB (currently 10.5% per annum).
GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Proiect             The main objective of the Project is to assist in
Description       : meeting electricity demand in the Northern Region of
India through the addition of 1500 KW of hydro
capacity. The Project includes construction of the
Nathpa Jhakri power station c3mprising: (i) a 60 m
high, 155 m long gravity dam and underground c..,silting
facilities; (ii) a 30 km long headrace tunnei of about
10 m di3meter, and surge tank; and (iii) penstocks,
power house (including 6x250 MW units) and a 500 m long
tailrace tunnel; and reinforcement and expansion of the
transmission and distribution system in the state of



-ii-
Himachal Pradesh, including the contruction of 500 km
of 132 km transmission lines and associated
substations. In additioai the Project will provide for
implementation of a program to modernize and streamline
HPSEB management and operations including a load
management program and implementation of a progrtm
comprising assistance and training to strengthen the
capabilities of CEA, CWC and other selected agencies,
for planning, design and management of hiydropower
projects. The Project would provide funds for the
training and consulting services, and computer hardware
and software, as needed, for the implementation of the
above components.
Benefits and     : Through the Project, the Bank will be supporting GOI's
Risks             efforts to: (a) alleviate power shortages in the
Northern Region by exploiting indigenous hydro
resources; (b) improve the reliability of supply and
reduce system losses in Himachal Pradesh; and (c)
improve the ple-ning and design capabilities of CEA and
CWC. The proposed Nathpa Jhakri hydro scheme involves
the usual risks associated with major underground
works, such as unforseen geological conditions
which may effect the cost or construction schedule or
both. However, as a result of an intensive geological
exploration program and experiernce with the excavation
works of an another hydro scheme immediately upstream
of Nathpa Jhakri, these risks are at an acceptably low
level. In addition, external consultancy expertise is
being provided under the Project to assist during
project construction. The transmission and training
components do not present any extraordinary risks.



*               ~~~~- iii-*
XpXOe;  Costts:
Local   FreiL   .Total
(US$ Million)
A. Nathpa Jhakri Power Station
- Land, and Site Preparation         78.5     -       78.5
- Resettlement of Population          0.5     -        0.5
- Environment Protection Prog.        1.0     -        1.0
- Dam, Intake & Desilting Works      49.7    72.3    12^.0
- Headrace Tunnel & Surge Tank      108.7   184.3    293.0
- Pressure Shaft, Powerhouse &
Tailrace Tunnel                  267.1   251.1    5X8.2
Sub-Total                         505.5   507.7  1,013.2
B. Expansion & Reinforcement of
Transmission in Himachal Pradesh   38.6      3.4     41.9
C. Communication & Load Dispatch
for HPSEB                            2.5     -        2.5
D. Institutional Development for
HPSEB                                0.8     0.7       1.5
E. Training Program & Assistance
for CWC                              1.7     2.5      4.2
T.otal Baseline Costs                  549.1   514.2  1,063.3
Physical Contingencies               92.1   114.2    206.3
Price Contingencies                  94.1   110.9    205.0
Total Project %ost                     735.3   739.3  1,474.6
Interest During Construction           195.0   167.0    362.0
Total Financing Required               930.3   906.3  1,836.6
Financing Plan:
Local   Freign  Total
IBRD                                    55.0   430.0    485.0
Cofinanciers                                   300.0    300.0
GOI/GOHP/HPSEB                         875.3   176.3  1.051.6
930.3   906.3  1,836.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank         1989   10   1991   1992   1         1994    1995   1996   1997
Annual        0.3   25.0   48.0   78.0  117.0  113.0    67.0   26.0   10.7
Cumulative    0.3   25.3   73.3  151.3  268.3  381.3   448.3  474.3  485.0
Rate of Return: 14.3%



INDI
N&THPA JHARRI POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Sectorai Context
Overvie
1.01     India's power systems presently have a combined ins-alled power
generating capacity of nearly 54,000 MW and provide about 210,000 GWh of
energy, making them comparable in size to the power sectors of France and
the U.K. and to the combined power sectors of all the countries of sub-
Saharan Africa. However, despite impressive progress in expanding supply
over the last few years (installed capacity has increased from 32,000 MW in
1981/82 and energy availability from 114,000 GWh) shortages persist -
equivalent to about 10% of total energy demand ail 20% of maximum power
demand. The quality of electricity supplies also remains mostly
unsatisfactory. Ln an effort to meet a higher proportion of demand, improve
the quality of supplies and to complete its ambii.ious program of village
electrification, GOI plans further rapid expansior. of the sector through
installation of an additional 80,000 MW of capacity by the turn of the
century. This wo,xld cost about US$150 billion at present prices and claim
between 25% and 30% of total allocations under the Eighth and Ninth Plans
(compared with 20% under the present Plan). Sector development on this
scale would almost certainly add sharp pressures to government finances.
Implementing such a large program of investments and operating the greatly
enlarged power systems also would pose considerable managerial and technical
challenges for sector entities. Currently, the zank finances about 5% of
the sector's investments.
1.09     Over the past decade, significant progress has been made in
expanding India's power supply, in improving the utilization of existing
assets, and, though more modestly, in increasing tariffs. An important
institutional gain has been the emergence of NTPC as the foremost entity in
India for iastalling new generating capacity. Nevertheless, India's power
system is relatively inefficient by international standards. Institutional,
financial and technical constraints undermine efficient operations and
planning, with the result that India's power systems deliver to consumers
less power and of a poorer quality than they should be able to, and at a
higher cost. The costs to the economy of shortages and poor quality
supplies are magnified by inefficient end-use of electricity - the result
mostly of inadequate retail tariffs and only weak commercial incentives in
many markets. Sector development is also constrained by the divided
responsibility (between GOI and the States) for power development, political
interference in the operations of the State rlectricity Boards (SEBs), and
weaknesses in the financial structure of the sector which has undermined
financial performance as well as held down resource mobilization.



-2-
1.03     GO} is cognicant of the extent of present inefficiencies, the
nature of the underlying constraints and the repercussions which they will
have on future sector development unless improvements are made. To date,
however, only isolated efficiency enhancing initiatives have been mounted.
However, under the Seventh Plan, there have been encouraging signs of a
strengthening resolve to address sectoral constraints and promote
efficiency. GOI has mounted initiatives to bring basic financial discipline
to the SEBs (para 1.14) and has accelerated development of the relatively
efficient central utilities, particularly the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) wh2ich now provides about 10W of India's total power
supplies (para 1.12). GOI also has formed the Power Finance Corporation to
mobilize additional resources for sector development and is reviewing its
policy on private sector involvement in power supply, specifically with a
view to easing regulatory and financial disincentives to private investment
(para 1.13). Finally, GOI is also reviewing its fuel supply policy for
poder generatiorn not only by increasing the use of ntatural gas, but also by
examining several imported energy options. The principal challenge facing
GOI under the Eighth Plan is to bring better balance than before between
expansion and efficiency improvement within existing resource constraints.
Central to achieving this will be to ensure that institutional development
of sector entities keeps pace with th*-r physical expansion. Finally, to
help meet the sectors enormous investment requirements, GOI must also
realize more of the sector's ?otential to mobilize private resources.
Commercial Energy Resources
1.04     India's principal commercial energy sources comprise coal, oil,
gas, hydro and nuclear energy. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal is the
most abundant. Reserves of thermal ecal have been estimated at over 125
billion tons of which 60 billion are considered technically and economically
recoverable. Although reserves are ample, the quality of coal produced is
generally low and is deteriorating. The high ash content, up to 50%,
increases power station capital and operating costs and has exacerbated
problems of coal transport. The Government of India's (GOI) emphasis on
concentrates development of pithead stations helps to alleviate transport
problems but will not reduce the other costs associated with poor coal
quality. Moreover, pithead development will be constrained by pollution
problems and water availability. The growing constraints to further
development of India's coal resources, high transportation costs, and
increasing production costs have tc",ether raised questions in regard to the
continued competitiveness of l.rdia's coal industry.  Recently, GOI has begun
to give preliminary consideration to imports of coal, which probably would
be economic at some coastal and inland locations.
1.05     India's oil and gas reserves (proven and provable) are relatively
sizeable, being estimated at 580 million tons, which at current consumption
levels would be exhausted in approximately twenty (20) years. Crude oil
production, which currently provides about two-third of India's oil
requirements, is peaking; as a result, oil imports are expected to rise
again in the next few years. India's natural gas reserves are increasing
and are estimated at 360 mtoe; natural gas could substitute for a part of
future oil consumption. In the past, GOI had limited natural gas to premium



-3-
markets such as petro-chemicals and fertilizer. With the growth in gas
reserves and recent completion of a large gas pipeline, the market for gas
has also expanded and natural gas is now becoming an important fuel for
power generation, particularly in the north western areas of India where
power shortages are acute. Oil products continue to have limited use in
thermal power generation, being confined primarily to captive plant
generation.
1.06     India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about 100,000 MW.
At present only 16,000 MW have been developed, 4,700 KW are under
construction and a further 23,000 MW are being studied for future
development. Despite its potential, hydroelectric capacity addition to the
India power systems has ceclined during the past d.cade. Under the Sixth
Plan, hydroelectric represented about 34% of capacity addition. Estimates
indicate that by the end of the Seventh Plan, 'hydro capacity addition will
represent about 30% of India's power systems. Concerned with the decline
and recognizing the prominent role of hydro generation in regional least-
cost power development plans, GOI has decided to accelerate hydro
development; however, progress has been slow owing to the lack of financial
resources of states with the greatest hydro potential, the growing time
required to resolve water rights and environmental issues, and the limited
technical resources available for the simultaneous preparation of a large
number of hydro schemes. Attempts to address these issues through increased
central sector involvement have so far met with limited success (para 1.12).
1.07     The country's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear
program (8,000 - 10,000 MW), and thorium reserves are enough for a large
fast breeder program.  India's nuclear power generating capacity is
currently 1,230-MW.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.08     As mentioned in para 1.01, in 1987/88, utilities' gross power
generationiV  amounted to approximately 210,000 GWh from an installed
capacity of 54,000 MW (Annex 1.1). Almost 60% of generation was from coal,
35% from hydro, and the rest from oil, nuclear energy, and ratural gas. The
deteriorating quality of coal has increased station-use (to about 10% of
gross generation) and the large expansion in very low load density rural
electrification, together with otherwise inadequate investment in
transmission and distribution, have increased system losses (to more than
26% of gross generation). The Bank has stressed the importance of giving
more balance to future investment in power in order to reduce system losses
and improve service quality and will continue to support transmission and
distribution investments designed to achieve these objectives.
1.09     Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption.
Electricity consumption now accounts for more than 30% of total commercial
energy consumption. Over the period 1981/82 to 1987/88, total consumption
of electricity grew at an average rate of 8.8% p.a. in terms of energy
1/ Net of consumption by Dower stations.



-4-
consumed and 11.9% in terms of maximum power demand (Annex 1.1). However,
even though the power sector receives over 20% of total public investment,
the supply of electricity has not kept pace with increases in demand. The
Central Electricity Authority (CEA) esttmates that present shortages of
electricity are about 21,000 GWh and 8,400 MW, equivalent in terms of
present consumption to approximately 10t of energy demand at.d 20% of maximum
power demand. CEA projects that electricity demand (in teirms both of energy
demand and maximum power demand) will grow at epproximately 9% p.a. through
1996/97 and that demand will continue to be supply-constrained (Annex 1.2),
although to a lesser extent than at present. Continued real increases in
retail electricity tariffs (which averaged 5% p.a. between 1981 and 1987)
may slow the pace of demand growth somewhat and provide further relief to
supplies. However, this relief partly may be mitigated through the relative
ease with which industrial and commercial consumers can pass on cost
increases to their customers. The principal sectoral shares of total
electricity consumption are: industrial, 55%: agricultural, 18%; domestic,
13% and commercial, 8%. Agriculture's share has grown steadily owing to
increased electrical irrigation pumping made possible by rural
electrification and encouraged by heavy subsidies.
Organization of the Power Sector
1.10     The Central and State Governments share the responsibility for
supplying electricity. The Central Government controls the CEA, the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydro-Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) and
(through CEA) the regional electricity boards (REBs). The States control
the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and the day-to-day operations of the
REBs. CEA is part of the Department of Power within the Ministry of Energy.
NTPC, NHPC and REC are public corporations reporting to the Department of
Power.  SEBs were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (the
Act), to promote the development of the power sector and to regulate private
licensees such as the Tata Electric CompAnies. Although SEBs are supposed
to be autonomous in managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they
are under the control of State Governments in such matters as capital
investment, tariffs, borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first
step towards national integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five
regional systems, each coordinated by an REB. Coordinated responsibilities
include overhaul and maintenance programs, generation schedules, interstate
power transfers and concomitant tariffs.
1.11     CEA was crAated in 1950 to develop a national power policy and to
coordinate tne various agencies involved in supplying electricity.  It is
formally responsible for vetting investment proposals, providing consulting
support to SEBs, assisting in the integration of supply systems, training of
personnel, and research and development. However, in its execution of these
responsibilities, CEA has been severely limited by shortages of skilled
staff and other resources. GOI recently formed the Power Finance
Corporation (PFC) whose functions are to mobilize additional resources for
sector development, accelerate priority projects and pursue institutional
reform of sector entities, particularly the SEBs. At present, the
Corporation's lending operations are giving priority to projects being



implemented by SEBs in the areas of system rehabilitation and modernization,
and power distribution.
1.12     NTPC and NHPC were formed in 1975 to construct and operate large
power stations and associated transmission facilities. They sell bulk power
to the SEBs for distribution. NTPC has had marked success. It has grown
rapidly and now provides about 10% of India's total power supplies, in the
process establishing itself as a utility that is efficient by international
standards and with a proven track record of implementing major projects.
NTPC also enjoys a strong financial position:  in 1987/88 it earned a return
on net fixed assets (most less than five years old) of 17%. In contrast,
NHPC is still struggling to establish a role for itself; the states control
water rights and are reluctant to relinquish hydro sites to the Center.
This has prompted GOI to explore joint ventures with the states to develop
hydro schemes. The Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation (NJPC), which has been
established to construct and operate the proposed Nathpa Jhakri power
station, is the first such joint venture between GOI and a state, in this
case Himachal Pradesh. REC was established in 1969 to coordinate rural
electrification and provide financial and technical expertise for SEB
schemes. Currently, REC finances more than 70% of total rural
electrification investments. At present, there is no organization with
responsibility for developing a national transmission grid, although GOI is
contemplating th formation of such a body (para 1.24).
1.13     Private utilities at present make only a marginal contribution to
public electricity supply, though private supply through captive generation
is extensive (equivalent to about 15% of public supply). To mobilize
additional resources for sector development and in recognition of the
potential efficiency gains, GOI now is attempting to increase private sector
participation in public power supply. GOI has a White Paper on power under
final review which aims to address existing regulatory and financial
disincentives to private participation in the sector.
Financial Performance and Tariffs
1.14     Only two SEBs made a profit in 1986/87 and SEBs as a whole incurred
a combined loss in that year of approximately Rs 15,799 million (US$1,215
million) exclusive of subsidies, corresponding tV a return on historically
valued net fixed assets of 3.5% before interest, and -8.3% after interest.
Intornal cash generation, which was equivalent to only about 2.7% of capital
expenditure in 1984/85, has been correspondingly poor. Almost all SEBs'
capital expenditures are financed by debt, primarily loans from state
governments. Recognizing the unsatisfactory state of SEBs' finances GOI
has, through an amendment to the Act notified in April 1985, required each
SEB to earn an annual return, after meeting operating expenses, taxes,
depreciation and interest, of at least 3% on its historically valued net
fixed assets (GOI does not accept the principle of revaluation of assets).
The Bank supports this initiative by GOl and has changed the form of its
financial covenants to reflect this. Although, in terms of the Bank's
conventional method of calculation, the return specified in the Act, which
corresponds in some cases to 4 to 6% on revalued assets, is modest, it
represents a substantial improvement on past performance. Many SEBs,



-6-
particularly those of the poorer states, are experiencing considerable
difficulty achieving even this level of performance. In parallel, GOI is
also considering increasing the rate of return on paid-in capital that
private power utilities are permittad to earn from 128 to 15% to stimulate
private sector interest in power supply.
1.15     NTPC's tariffs are approximately equal to its long-run marginal
costs (LRMC). However, the structure of NTPC's tariff has certain
shortcomings, the main one being that it does not distinguish between peak
and off-peak supply costs. This distorts SEBs' generation planning with the
result that NTPC's power stations are not utilized as efficiently as they
might be. A committee established by GOI has recommended NTPC's tariff be
divided between peak and off-peak rates. In anticipatior of GOI's
endorsement of this recommendation, the forthcoming operation with NTPC2/
will include a component to design and implement a new bulk supply tariff.
A similar component is being planned for the first operation with NHPC.
Also, under the proposed project, the Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation (NJPC)
has agreed to design and implement a bulk supply tariff the structure of
which will reflect the Corporation's peak and off-peak supply costs (para
4.06). SEBs' tariffs are now 60-70% of long run marginal cost (LRMC); a
significant improvement from about 50% of LRMC in 1981 following real tariff
increases averaging around 5% p.a. between 1981 and 1987. Prices relative
to LRNC will continue to improve as rates are increased to achieve the GOI's
target rate of return. However, the structure of tariffs remains
unsatisfactory. Tariffs are frequently excessively complex and invariably
heavily cross-subsidize low voltage consumers. Very little has been done
through tariffs either to tap load management potential or consumers'
willingness to pay, which in many cases substantially exceeds existing
tariff levels. Despite accepting the principle that energy prices should
"reflect true costs" in both its Sixth and Seventh Plans, social and
agricultural objectives have in practice limited progress towards this
pricing objective. To impress on the relevant authorities the true costs of
cross-subsidization, the Bank will continue to require SEBs to carry out
tariff studies wherever tariff structures appear to be badly distorted.
Currently, three such studies are underway in the states of Kerala,
Maharashtra and Karnataka. However, resistance to economic pricing is such
that progress in pricing reform is likely to be slow.
1.16     In lending to individual SEBs, the Bank will continue to address
state-specific programs to improve resource mobilization, for example, by
developing financial programs capable, as a minimum, of achieving the rate
of return specified in the Act. Where higher returns are both feasible and
desirable, the Bank will press state governments to use their discretion
under the Act to notify a higher rate of return. Under the proposed
project, the Government of Himachal Pradesh (GOHP) has agreed to enable
Himacnal Pradesh SEB to take such actions as needed (including increasing
tariffs) to earn a rate of return after interest in excess of 3%, rising to
7% by 1995/96. This 7% return is equivalent to a rate of return as defined
by the Bank of approximately 13% (para 4.15).
2/ Currently under preparation.



-7-
Power Subsector Planing
1.17     The Bank has consistently encouraged GOI to pursue integrated
planning and eoordinated operation of the country's electricity supply
systems. In response, GOI has prepared a set of regional least cost
development plans, published as the National Power Plan (NPP) in 1983.
Although the NPP represented a good first step towards integrated planning,
it needs further refinement and regular updating. In addition, in
fulfillment of an agreement reached under the Rihand Power Transmission
Project (Ln. 2535-IN), GOI recently has comoleted (through CEA) a National
Transmission Plan. This is an important step towards least-cost
transmission development and towards integrating generation and transmission
planning, and will form the basis of NHPC's Northern Region Transmission
Project, which is being prepared for Bank financing in 1989. However,
national generation and transmission plans can only lead to effective
improvements if complemented by measures to bring about coordinated system
operation. At present, only the Northern Region is approaching this. GOI
is encouraging states to reach the necessary agreements on operating
parameters but progress is likely to be slow so long as severe power
shortages exist. To improve regional coordination of SEBs' operations, the
proposed Maharashtra Power Project and forthcoming operations with NTPC and
NHPC will include components to provide equipment needed for regional load
dispatch and to undertake studies to recommend tariffs and commercial
arrangements to stimulate for bulk power exchanges. Even if coordinated
intra-regional operation is achieved, inter-regional transfers will be very
difficult without the use of direct current facilities to overcome problems
of frequency control. The first such facility, a link between Northern and
Western Regions, is a component of the Central Power Transmission Project.
1.18     Disparities between the long-term NPP, national five-year plans,
short-term budgets and actual performance have been substantial. Owing to a
lack of resources, fewer projects have been included in five-year plats than
in the NPP and, as a result of inadequate allowance for escalation and
delays in project implementation, fewer still have been executed. The
resulting power deficit has undermined long-term least-cost planning by
necessitating rapid expansion of supply; for example, shorte' gestation
thermal plants have been favored at the expense of lower cost hydro.
Furthermore, it has prompted over-investment in captive plant, a second best
measure leading to excessive use of high value petroleum products for power
generation. The proposed project includes a component that aims to
strengthen the planning capabilities of CEA and the Central Water Commission
(CWC), particularly as regards the planning of hydroelectric stations and
the use of modern techniques for power system planning. The forthcoming
operation with NHPC will also help sase CEA's shortage of resources by
establishing a fund for pre-feasibility studies of hydroelectric projects.
In addition to supporting GOI's efforts to increase the supply of power, the
Bank will continue to stress to GOI the role of pricing and load management
in eliminating power deficits, and the importance of integrating planning
and pricing.



-8-
Management and Onerations
1.19     Institutional evolution of the sector, in terms of the structure
and capabilities of entities' management, has not kept pace with the
tremendous physical growth of India's power systems. Moreover, the roles of
particular sector institutions and the services they provide (principally
CEA and CWC), need to be adapted to respond more closely to important sector
development constraints, for example, the needs to improve investment
planning and to integrate system operations more closely. Compared with the
relatively efficient management and operations of NTPC, the capabilities of
most SEBs are extremely weak. In general, SEBs have adequately qualified
engineering staff, but lack experienced personnel in financial planning and
control. Management practices also are generally outmoded and inadequate.
Accounts have been maintained principally to track cash receipts and
expenditures, and there has been little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. Unfortunately, significant pay differentials between
the public and private sectors make it difficult to recruit competent staff.
The Bank has encouraged GOI to develop a new uniform system of commercial
accounting for SEBs. After initial delays, implementation of this new
system is now proceeding. The Bank will continue to support institutional
development programs through lending to selected SEBs which, together with
their state governments, are committed to reform. In addition, the Bank
will continue to support ad hoc initiatives, such as the PFC Workshop on
SEBs' Finances held in February, 1989, which aims to improve understanding
of the factors underlying poor financial performance and explore ways these
constraints might be addressed.
1.20     The operations of many SEBs are hampered by the poor condition of
their plant and equipment. Factors that have contributed to the poor
condition of thermal plant include inadequate maintenance (in part due to
capacity shortages), deficiencies in manufacture, lack of spares, and the
poor quality of coal; in general, these problems have been recognized by the
relevant authorities and corrective steps are being taken. Distribution
systems also suffer from inadequate maintenance, overloading owing to
inadequate investment and deficiencies in the manufacture of equipment.
Rehabilitation, particularly of thermal plant and distribution networks,
appears to be a very cost-effective way to improve efficiency and augment
system capacity. GOI has recently initiated a rehabilitation program for
thermal plant but is less able to effect improvements in distribution. The
Bank will continue, whenever appropriate, to include rehabilitation
componeuts under its loans. In addition, to help ease technical efficiency
cont traints, the Bank is seeking th.^ough a Power System Efficiency Study
(initiated in January, 1989 as part if the Bank's program of economic sector
work) to identify the causes of recurring technical problems and to
rezommend solutions that could be implemented throughout the sector.
GOI's Strategy in the Power Sector
1.21     The Five Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement of GOI's
energy and power policies. Formalization of power policy, in particular, is
made difficult by the constitutional arrangement in which responsibility for
power is shared between Center and states (para 1.10). However, the Plan



-9-
reflects a broad consensus of the objectives of energy and power policies.
While the Eighth Plan has yet to be finalized, preliminary indications
suggest there will be little change from the consensus of objectives
reflected under the Seventh Plan. However, recent GOI initiati'.es (its
establishment of PFC and attempts at bringing improved financial discipline
to the SEBs and its proposed White Paper on private sector participation in
power supply) are encouraging signs that the Eighth Plan will be more
sharply focussed on tackling root causes of sector inefficiencies.
Principal objectives of GOI's energy policy likely to remain are:
(a) developing energy supplies economically at a rate commensurate with
growth in the economy and social needs; (b) substituting indigenous energy
resources for imported petroleum wherever this is economically feasible; and
(c) encouraging the rational and efficient use of energy resources. India's
power policy is governed by essentially the same objectives, although
alleviation (or at least containment) of the acute power shortages suffered
nationwide most probably will continue to dominate GOI's short-term
strategy.  Over the longer term, achievement of least-cost development
assumes greater importance. Specific policy objectives to help ease power
shortages most likely will continue to focus on:
(a) rehabilitating thermal p'lant - a program involving some 30 plants
is currently being implemented (para 1.20);
(b) accelerating implementation of ongoing projects - a recent
reorganization of Government created a new ministry specifically to
monitor and improve implementation of public sector projects; in
addition, lending by PFC will aim to accelerate implementation of
projects to rehabilitate and modernize existing plant (para 1.11);
(c) adopting a more supportive approach towards private sector
involvement in power supply (para 1.13);
(d) permitting the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plents (para 1.05); and
(e) improving the quality and reliability of coal supplies to power
stations (para 1.04).
1.22     GOI's long-term strategy requires a blend of policies designed to
address investment, organizational, institutional and financial issues. The
amount of investment available to the power sector is limited. The Seventh
Plan allocation was about only half that sought by the Working Group on
Power, a sum which was itself inadequate to eliminate power shortages.
Long-term investment priorities under the Eighth Plan most likely will
continue to be:
(a) accelerated hydro development (para 1.06);
(b)  an !ncreased proportion of investment in transmission and
distriouation (para 1.08);
(c) the formation of a national grid (para 1.12);



-10-
(4) coal benericiation to improve both quality and homogeneity
(para 1.04);
(e) diversification of the modes in which coal for power generation is
transported, such as the introduction of coastal shipping or slurry
pipelines (para 1.04);
(f) diversification of the fuels used for power generation; GOI now
recognizes that gas-fired plant, especially combined cycle, has an
economic role to play in system developr nt (para 1.05); also that
imported coal may be economic at some coastal and inland locations;
and
(g) steady growth in the development of nuclear power (para 1.07).
1.23     Long-term organizational, institutional and financial issues are
more controversial and GOI still needs clearly defined strategies in these
areas. GOI recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of many of
the SVBs, but constitutional constraints limit the rate at which it can
bring about improvement. Measures which GOI is following include:
(a)  increasing the role of efficient central sector institutions,
particularly NTPC, inter alia, by encouraging joint ventures with
SEBs (para 1.12);
(b) implementing a uniform system of commercial accounting for all SEBs
(para 1.19);
(c) requiring, through a recent amendment of the Act, that SEBs earn a
rate of return of not less than 3% after all expenses and interest
(para 1.14), a significantly more stringent financial requirement
than hitherto; and
(d) giving more favorable treatment to private sector proposals for
power generation, particularly when it can be demonstrated that
such developments are mobilizing resources which would not
otherwise be available to the public sector (para 1.13).
In addition, as noted, GOI has formed the PFC as a financial intermediary to
serve the sector (para 1.11). Funds lent by PFC will be attractive to SEBs
because, at least in part, they will be additional to agreed Plan outlays.
It is expected that PFC will pursue institutional reform of the SEBs through
subjecting loan beneficiaries to conditionality designed to improve
efficiency and financial performance.
1.24     GOI recognizes that development and operation of an integrated
national grid will be difficult to achieve with the present organization of
the sector and GOI is contemplating the formation of a separate body with
responsibility for the grid (para 1.12).



-11-
Bapk Group Strategy in the Pow_er ubsector
1.25     The Bank supports the elements of GOI's strategy outlined in the
preceeding paragraphs. However, while each of these elements is desirable,
they do not address all of the sector's serious deficiencies in a
sufficiently determined way. In particular, additional efforts are needed
to address problems in the areas of planning, pricing, load management,
institutional development and finance. The prevalent nature of these
problems suggest-  hat a sector-wide approach should be sought.  However,
the comparative autonomy of the states and SEBs from the Center makes it
difficult to achieve progress through involvement exclusively with central
agencies. With the exception of the introduction of uniform commercial
accounting in SEBs, few improvements at the state level have been realized
through umbrella projects coordinated by CEA or REC, primarily owing to the
very weak control that these institutions are able to exercise over SEBs.
Consequently, the Bank is emphasizing projects with a more direct
involvement with individual SEBs and where state-specific programs can be
designed to address areas of deficiency. Initial experience with individual
SEBs -in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh- has been encouraging. Under the Uttar
Pradesh Power project, for example, UPSEB agreed to a comprehensive program
of institutional and financial reform. Further operations with selected
SEBs will focus on: (i) strengthening SEBs' technical and financial
planning capabilities; (ii) improving the utilization of generating plant
and transmission axt distribution; (iii) improvir.g plant maintenance; (iv)
continuing adjustment of prices towards economic costs; and (v) reorganizing
SEBs and improving management information systems. Tariffs and financial
performance will continue to be the areas in which progress is most
difficult to make (para 1.14): states have limited financial incentives to
improve SEBs' performance (as tax remittances are paid direct to GOI),
whereas the political costs of increasing prices are direct and strongly
felt.
1.26     In parallel with lending to individual SEBs, however, the Bank
proposes continued support for central sector entities, because: (a)
increased reliance by the states on central sector generation appears to be
the best way to encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the
national interest; and (b) a higher proportion of total generation provided
at economic tariffs by NTPC and NHPC wil.l help to improve tariffs to final
consumers. The difficulties that GOI has experienced in bringing hydro
projects into the central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the main
vehicle for the Bank's support of the central sector. NTPC's record to date
is impressive. However, it is still far from being a mature institution
and, owing to its rapid development, it will continue to face problems in
which it could benefit from Bank support. In the wider context, the Bank
feels that a review is needed of the organizaLion and technical services
provided by sector entities and it is desirable that this should include a
review of the organization and functions of CEA and examination of the
desirability of establishing a utility specifically to develop and operate a
national power grid. Such an institutional review is included in the Bank's
program of economic sector work and the Bank will continue to mount
institutional initiatives through particular lending operations: the
proposed project includes a component which aims to strengthen the planning



-12-
capabilities of CEA and CWC (para 3.06(C)), and the forthcoming operation
with NTPC will include a component to reorganize and strengthen the
Corporation's management.
1.27     In addition to addressing areas in which GOI's strategy appears
deficient, it is appropriate that the Bank should focus on aspects of the
strategy already adopted, where the Bank can do most to catalyze progress.
In this respect specific aspects identified include:
(a) integrating operations of power supply systems including the
formation of the national grid. The forthcoming transmission
operation with NtHPC will improve coordination of SEBs' operations
in the Northern Region and facilitate efficient dispatch of new and
existing power stations;
(b) accelerating hydro development - by strengthening project planning,
design, implementation and management of hydro power projects (for
example, the proposed project for the first time includes foreign
consulting as6istance to CEA to assist in detailed project design
and imple,mentation), and by mobilizing additional financial
resources through Bank's proposed loan and funds from cofinanciers;
(c) developing projects of international interest that could result in
low-cost sources of power for India, such as the Karnali
Hydroelectric Project in Nepal and the Pancheshwar Hydroelectric
Project on the border between India and Nepal;
(d) elements of strategy that involve concerted action by
organizations, both inside and outside the power subsector - the
Bank can coordinate its own lending operations within the different
stubsectors in order to improve intersectoral cooperation. Priority
examples concern improvements in coal quality and transportation,
and the use of natural gas for power generation; and
(e) supporting private sector power generation - a possible operation
with Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply, and the possibility of a
further operation with Tata Electric Companies, will aim to
complement GOI's initiatives to stimulate private sector
participation in power supply (para 1.13). Specific project
objectives will be to mobilize funds that would not have been
available to public power utilities and to improve commercial
arrangements between private utilities and SEBs.
Bank Group Participation
1.28     The Bank has made 27 loans (US$4,994 million) and 17 IDA Credits
(US$2,424 million) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3). Twenty-two
projects have been completed: 15 generation; 4 transmission; and 3 rural
electrification. Projects currently under implementation include: 11
generation, 2 of which are hydro; 2 transmission; and five which include a
mix of generation, transmission and distribution. With respect to NTPC
projects, the first-phase projects at Singrauli, Korba, and Ramagundam were



-13-
commissioned on or ahead of schedule and the plants have been operating at
high efficiency. The second-phase extensions at these sites, the Farakka,
the Rihand Power Transmission, and the Combined Cycle Projects are
proceeding satisfactorily.
1.29     Through its participation in the sector in recent years, the Bank
has contributed to the creation and development of NTPC which, with 2,500 KW
commissioned in the last five years and around 3,000 NW under construction,
is becoming a large and efficient generating company by international
standards. The Bank also has assisted one of the few private utilities in
the country, the Tata Electric Companies, in supporting the construction of
the first 500 MW thermal unit in India and is planning further operations to
support development of private utilities. Similarly, the Bank promoted --
through two transmission projects, the Central and Rihand Power Transmission
Projects -- the introduction of high voltage, direct current technology. In
addition to contributing in a substantive way to the supply of power,
projects financed by the Bank also have promoted the development in India of
a large public and private manufacturing sector for the construction of the
required equipment (e.g. steam generators, turbo-generators, auxiliary and
transmission equipment). While these industries still lack the quality and
efficiency of their international counterparts, the competition resulting
from international competitive bidding will encourage further improvements
in the quality and technology employed in the equipment thley produce.
1.30     A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded in
helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission systems to meet
their growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in
these SEBs exceeded the appraisal forecast. However, the audit highlighted
the difficultie3 of effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a
close working relationship between the Bank and beneficiary SEBs. Another
performance audit, conducted in 1985 for the First and Second Rural
Electrification Projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN), concluded that India's
rural electrification program, of wsich the projects were a part, has helped
the country to achieve food self-sufficiency, alleviate poverty, and
strengthen the rural economy; however, little progress was made in bringing
about institutional improvements. In common with the previous audit, this
also emphasized that the Bank should devote resources to deal with the SEBs
directly, rather than indirectly through central institutions, such as REC.
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
Introducion
2.01     The Borrower of the proposed loan will be India and the main
beneficiaries will be: (i) Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation (NJPC); (ii)
Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB); and (iii) Central
electricity Authority (CEA) and Central Water Commission (CWC). A sunmary
description of the basic Project components to be executed by each
beneficiary is listed below and a detailed Project description is given in
Chantvr TTT.



-14-
(i)  W,!f.:     Construction and operation of the 1,500 MW power station
in the state of Hiimachal Pradesh;
(ii)  HPSEB:     (a) construction of 500 km of 132 kV transmission line
and reinforcement and extension of the transmission
system in the state of Himachal Pradesh;
(b) implementation of a communication and load despatch
facility for hPSEB;
(c) implementation of a program to strengthen HPSEB's
operations and finances;
(iii)  CEA/CWC:   implementation of a training program in the preparation
of hydropower projects and in the design and planning of
lar&e power systems.
The institutional aspects relating to NJPC and HPSEB are discussed below
while the financial aspects are dealt with in Chapter IV. Institutional
details pertaining to CEA/CWC are given in Chapter I.
A. NathDa Jhakri Power CorDozation
2.02     Background: Water resources are under State jurisdiction in India
and hydro development has been constrained by lack of financial resources of
States with the greatest hydro potential. The formation of Nathpa Jhakri
Power Corporation (NJPC), as an undertaking jointly owned by GOI and GOHP,
represents the first cooperative effort of its kind between the Central
Government and a State Government for development of a major hydro resource.
The financing of the Project will be shared on the basis of 25% of the costs
being borne by GOHP and 75% of the costs by GOI. Moreover, the funds will
be in the form of 50% equity and 50% loan. Furthermore, in recognition of
the State's jurisdiction over water resources, the partnership arrangement
entitles GOHP to receive 12% of the energy generated free of charge and 25%
of the balance of 88% shall be allocated to GOHP at the busbar rate. The
remainder will be available to GOI for sale through NJPC to SEBs and other
major purchasers of power in the Northern Region.
2.03     NJPC was formed under the Companies Act (1956) on May 24, 1988 to
act as the executing agency, on behalf of GOI and GOHP, for the
implementation and operation of the power station component of the project.
The main objectives of the Corporation are to plan, promote, organize and
execute the proposed power station on the Sutlej river including
investigations, afforestation, environmental development, research and
design activities. NJPC is also empowered to develop, in a similar manner,
various other hydroelectric sites in the Sutlej river basin for execution in
Himachal Pradesh and to undertake where necessary the construction of
transmission lines and ancillary works for proper evacuation and
distribution of power. No additional undertakings are planned for the
period, during which, the proposed power station will be implemented.



-15-
NJPC Management and Organization
2.04     Annex 2.1 shows the organization chart for NJPC.  The Articles of
Association provide for the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other Members of the
Board of Directors to be appointed by the President of India. The
Chairman's appointment is subject to terms and conditions as may be
determined by the President, while each Board member's term is to be for a
period of three years and is renewable.  The Articles specify that the
number of directors would not be less than six nor more than 15 and that
some of them may be part time or full time directors with functional
responsibilities. At least one quarter of the part time directors would be
nominated by GORP. The Articles provide for the Board to have considerable
autonomy on matters related to the execution and operation of the power
station, such as entering into contracts, procurement, staffing, pricing,
etc. However non-project related capital expenditures require further
clearance by GOI and GOHP. The Secretary of Power, GOI, has been nominated
as Acting Chairman and five top-level officials from HPSEB, CEA and DOP are
acting as Directors. NJPC has formed a recruitment committee to select the
staff for the Corporation. HPSEB has been nominated as the Agent of the
Corporation to begin implementation of the works but NJPC will gradually
take over as its strength builds up.  HPSEB has been developing the project
thus far and the Bank is satisfied that it i.s capable of underta'ing project
implementation initially as proposed. NJPC has agreed to furnish the Bank
with a staffing plan, including qualifications and timetable for
appointments, for key positions no later than June 30, 1909 (para 6.02(a)).
Field Organization
2.05     The field staff of the Corporation will be organized along
functional lines to execute the Project (Annex 3.8). Six principal
technical departments each to be headed by a Chief Engineer will cover
designs, civil construction (2 departments), materials procurement,
electrical and mechanical works, and transmission. There will also be an
accouL.ting wing headed by a Chief Accounts Officer which would maintain the
project accounts during implementation. Many of NJPC's staff during the
implementation phase will be on secondment assignment from HPSEB, NHPC, CWC
and CEA. They will bring considerable expertise gained from working on
other hydro projects in India, including the preparatory and feasibility
work for Nathpa Jhakri power station. In additis... their skills will be
augmented through the training to be provided under tne project (para
3.06(B)(d)) and by association with the project consultants who will provide
assistance during the construction phase (para 3.08). The composition and
number of NJPC's staff will undergo transition as the date of commissioning
of the last unit in FY97 draws closer and construction related staff are
replaced by fewer operational and commercial staff.
Financial Organization
2.06     NJPC's Accounts Department will be headed by a Chief Accounts
Officer. He will be assisted by a small staff at headquarters in Shimla and
at the construction site. Initially the Accounting Departmen- will
undertake the project financing functions and will maintain project accounts



-16-
for the construction of the Nathpa Jhakri power station until its
commissioning in PY97. Once the generating units are commissioned, the
Accounting Department will operate a commercial accounting system and become
responsible for all the financial aspects of the operation, including
billings and collections from the SEBs. Initially, the accounting system
will track the processing of expenditures, drawdowns of loans and equity,
disbursements, payment of salaries, etc. Periodic statements of accounts
will be prepared at monthly, quarterly and annual intervals and will be
available for review by GOI, GOHP and the Bank. Prior to the first unit
becoming operational, NJPC will modify its accounting organization set up
and staffing profile to provide for the efficient operation of a
satisfactory commercial accounting system as used by NHPC, NTPC and other
Indian power sector corporations.
Audit
2.07     The external audit of NJPC's a-counts will be carried out by an
independent auditor to be appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General
of India. The auditor will normally be a member of the Indian Institute of
Chartered Accountants and his audit report on NJPC's financial statements
will be subject to c.omment by the Auditor General. NJPC has agreed to
provide the Bank with audited financial statements within seven months of
the end of each financial year, together with a certified report by the
auditors and comments of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (para
6.02(e)).
B. Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board
HPSEB Backgfround
2.08     A succession of small private and public electricity supply
companies operated in Himachal Pradesh from 1908 until 1948, at which time
the state government acquired control of most power supply assets in the
state. The Multipurpose Projects and Power Department (MPPD) became
responsible for operating the system until 1971 when it relinquished control
to the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) upon its formation,
pursuant to the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. HPSEB
continues to serve as the principal producer, distributor and retailer of
electricity within the State of Himachal Pradesh. In comparison to other
SEBs in India, HPSEB operates a relatively small syster with an installed
capacity of 134 MW (hydro-132 MW; diesel-2 MW) and about 13,700 km of
transmission lines and 29,500 km of distribution lines. As of March 31,
1987, HPSEB served about 700,000 connections comprising: 619,000 domestic;
66,000 commercial; 11,000 industrial; 3,000 agricultural and 1,000
miscellaneous. Legally, HPSEB is an autonomous entity reporting to MPPD,
however GOHP exerte substantial influence on matters of pricing, planning,
capital expenditure and staffing. HPSEB's dealings with GOHP on these
matters are facilitated by HPSEB's chairman who concurrently holds the
position of Secretary at MPPD.



-17-
HPSEB  HMgnaement and Orfanization
2.09     HPSEB's organization structure is shown in Annex 2.2.  HPSEB's
Board of Directors is responsible for establishing internal policies. It
consists of seven members, six of whom are full time.  Implementation of the
policies and responsibility for the various functional units is divided
among the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Secretary, Chief
Procurement Officer, Director-Commercial and eight Chief Engineers. Two of
the Chief Engineers are responsible for particular generation projecXz
(i.e., Kholdam and Bhaba hydro schemes). Two others are zonal Chief
Engineers in charge of operations and maintenance in the two geographic
zones of North and South, into which the state is divided. The three other
Chief Engineers are responsible for new projects, generation and
transmission planning, and technical coordination respectively.
2.10     The various operating units and the division of tasks and
responsibilities have evolved in an ad hoc manner in response to the demands
of the growing electrical system being managed. Although the organization
structure is generally satisfactory for HPSEB's scale of operations, there
are deficiencies which need to be addressed in the operation of some
functional units particularly planning, operations and maintenance, and
accounting. These deficiencies stem from a lack of suitably trained staff,
outmoded procedures and practices and insufficient equipment and tools for
staff to utilize in their work. A major reorganization of HPSEB's
management structure is not needed but HPSEB concurs that a thorough study
should be undertaken to review the functions, responsibilities and present
practices within its main operating units (i.e., Personnel, Finance and
Accounting, Commercial, Planning and Design, and Operations and
Haintenance).  Implementation of a Utility Management Study is proposed
under the Project. It is particularly appropriate at this juncture in
HPSEB's development since the utility is on the verge of a major pe-'od of
expansion, wherein its assets in operation are projected to increase by over
ten times from FY88 to FY96. The study will be undertaken with the
assistance of consultants. The objective is to propose and implement
policies and practices and identify a staffing and training program and
equipment requirements which will enable HPSEB to perform its projected
responsibilities and functions for the next 5 to 10 years. The proposed
scope of work for the study is outlined in Annex 3.7(III). GOHP has agreed
to cause HPSEB to provide for Bank's comment, the recommendatiuns arising
from the Utility Management Study and a timetable for implementing the
study's recommendations before December 31, 1989 (para 6.03(b)). GOHP
further agreed to cause HPSEB to implement the recommendations in accordance
with the timetable agreed with the Bank.
Persaaftl Staffing and Training
2.11     Since June 1983, HPSEB has adhered to the hIring freeze imposed by
GOHP. New pezsonnel can be recruited only if there is a vacancy and that no
present employee possess the requisite skills. Otherwise vacancies must be
filled through redeployment. Table 2.1 shows HPSEB's staffing as of March
31, 1987, distributed according to skill level. Overstaffing has been a
problem. Excluding construction related staff at various project sites,



-18-
HPSEB employs about 18,000 people to operate a system with 134 MW capacity
and 700,000 consumers. HPSEB recognizes that staff growth should be
curtailed and that a suitable training program should be developed to ensure
that, to the extent possible, future staffing requirements can be met from
within the organization. 0OH has agreed to cause HPSEB to furnish to the
Bank, before December 31, 1989, for its comment, a 5-year Staffing Plan and
Training Program for HPSEB. GOHP further agreed to cause HPSEB to implement
the Program in accordance with a timetable agreed between HPSEB and the Bank
(para 6.03(c)).
Table 2.1: HPSEB STAFF ALLOCATED BY SKILL CATEGORY
(as of March 31. 1987)
Actual
Management above Chief Engineer level                   6
Engineers                                           2,720
Accounting Staff                                      142
Administrativ'  and Clerical Staff                  3,100
Technical Staff                                    13,727
Unskilled Laborer                                  13.786
Total                              33,481
2.12     To date, HPSEB's in house training activities have been constrained
by budget limitations, and restricted to the training of linemen and
maintenance crews. About 300 have been trained at its Linemen Training
Centre which was established at Solan in 1970. Approximately 25 engineers
have benefited from outside trai-ing at various institutions within India
and elsewhere. Some accounting training was received from consultants in
1985 during implementation of the new commercial accounting system but more
is needed (para 2.19). HPSEB recognizes that a much improved training
program is required in order for it to make better use of its large
workforce and to meet the demands of its growing system. A review of the
present and planned training arrangements and provision of training will be
included in the proposed Utility Management Study, and Accounting and
Management Information System Study.
Planning
2.13     The planning function is under the responsibility of the Chief
Engineer (Planning aiA. Monitoring). Presently, this tudit does not perform
any long or medium-term planning in a systematic manne:. The Chief Engineer
(Planning) clears the execution of projects for system expansion proposed by
other units. The review serves only to ensure that the proposed designs
meet HPSEB's established standards and that cost estimates satisfy the
established norms. There is no organized effort to fit the project into a
long-term expansion plan. Normally, selection of projects is dictated by
budget considerations. The unit is also responsible for the collection of
statistical information on the system. In most cases information is not
processed or analyzed for planning purposes. In other cases it is manually



-19-
processed and filed. There are three different levels of planning in India:
(i) regional plans comprising generation and transmission above 220-kV which
are prepared by CEA 'based on information and proposals received from the
SEBs; (ii) State plans for generation and transmission below 220-kV, which
is the responsibility of the SEB; and (iii) SEB plans for subtransmission
and distribution. The final investment plans should normally be the result
of several iterations at the three levels. In contrast, at HPSEB, expansion
is driven by proposals prepared by the technical staff to alleviate
overloading or shortages identified in the system but no attempt is made to
establish these individual proposals as part of an integrated plan. The
planning function needs to be strengthened in HPSEB. It needs to be
reoriented into a forward-looking function rather than the present record-
keeping and checking role. The planning unit should prepare and maintain
long-term (15-20 years) indicative plans for expansion of HPSEB's power
system framed within the regional plans prepared by CEA. The planning unit
should prepare aggregated and disaggregated load demand forecasts in order
to properly decide upon additions to generating capacity, transmission and
distribution works and to formulate least cost development plans. The
planning unit should be responsible for preparing detailed 5-year plans for
immediate implementation.  Appropriate skills will need to be acquired in
project economic analysis and in formulating least cost solutions.  Finally,
the plans should include forecasts of annual investments and financing
requirements and draw upon the as.sistance of the Finance and Accounts
Department as required. A review of the planning unit's functions,
organization set up, staffing needs, and training requirements will be
included in the proposed Utility Management Study (para 2.10).
Engineering. Design and Construction
2.14     In contrast to its weakness in planning, HPSEB's design and
construction performance for new power plants, HV transmission lines and
substations has been good. The concerned staff are qualified and have
experience in the construction of hydro power projects both with HPSEB, and
while on deputation to NHPC. Technical support is obtained from CEA and CWC
as required.
Operations and Maintenance
2.15     HPSEB's approach to operating and maintaining its generation,
transmission and substation facilities should be revised to take into
account the increasing size and complexity of its facilities. Maintenance
of generating stations and transmission lines has generally beo.; performed
according to established schedules but upkeep of the subtransmission and
distribution system is not routine and is usually dictated by breakdowns.
The metering equipment which is used to record electricity flows at voltages
above II-kV is not checked after installation for accuracy. As a result,
the calculation of system losses may be inaccurate. Equipment needs to be
routinely tested and recalibrated. HPSEB does not maintain a central record
keeping system to monitor compliance with maintenance schedules or the
occurrence of breakdowns in its system. Moreover, it lacks a system of
centralized technical files to compile, store and allow for easy retrieval
of up-to-date information on the transmission/distribution system and power



-20-
plants. The lack of basic communication equipment, including two way radios,
results in the inefficient use of maintenance crews which must report back
to crew dispatch centres after each assignment to obtain new orders. These
shortcomings in HPSEB's operation and maintenance function would also be
addressed under the proposed Utility and Management Study (para 2.10). The
consultants to be engaged under the Study will assist HPSEB in setting
appropriate procedures and record keeping systems and in procuring suitable
communications equipment.
Materials and Stores Management
2.16     The Purchase Unit is responsible for bulk procurement and storage
of consumable materials and goods. The unit prepares an annual assessment
of needs, invites bids for supply of materials as needed and awards supply
contracts to the lowest evaluated bidders. Storekeeping functions are
decentralized regionally. Inventory controls are kept in ledgers but there
is no codification of items or standard forms for requisitions, dispatches,
etc. Physical inventory of the stores is taken annually. The reorganization
and modernization of this unit is urgent. The necessary revisions will be
identified and implemented under the proposed Utility Management Study.
Organization and Methods
2.17     The work of the Organization and Methods Unit consists of reviewing
and processing of proposals for creation of new positions or organizational
units and introducing new procedures. The analysis and criteria for
decision making in this unit are not clear. The task of defining the
systems, procedures, and standardization of forms, etc., has not been
assigned within the organization. The result is the proliferation of forms,
reports and procedures created ad-hoc by the different units. Under the
proposed Utility Management Consultancy, HPSEB's systems and procedures will
be streamlined and modernized.
Financial Organization
2.18     HPSEB's Finance and Accounts Department is headed by the Member
Finance and Accounts who is a Senior Member of the Indian Administrative
Service. A Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer is responsible for
the day to day management of financial operations and he is assisted at
headquarters by three deputies who supervise the various accounting
functions. In addition, HPSEB maintains 20 accounting units in the field,
each headed by a Superintendent of Accounts who supervises about four staff.
The organization of the Department and qualifications and experience of
HPSEB's senior financial staff are generally satisfactory. However,
primarily becau e of a lack of adequately trained middle and lower staff
level HPSEB has not fully implemented the new Commercial Accounting System
(CAS) introduced in April 1985. HPSEB recognizes the need for further
training in respect of the new system and plans to introduce improvements in
financial planning and in the development of its management information
system.



-21-
Accounting System
2.19     The accounting firm which designed the new Accounting System for
GOI also helped HPSEB in the preparation of the new accounts and initial
implementation of the system. However, the duration of their assistance was
too brief and the one week of training provided to lower level staff was
inadequate. As a consequence of the new system not becoming fully
operational, accounting staff, particularly in the field offices, are not
properly trained in the new system and do not systematically report
appropriate data to head office. HPSEB recognizes the need for an improved
implementation program and for accounting training.
2.20     Similarly, HPSEB's financial planning function needs strengthening
in order for the utility to cope with the projected expansion in its
operations during the next decade. Financial planning has been limited to
the preparation of annual budget forecasts and estimates of funding
requirements, for submission to the state government. As with some other
SEBs', it has not been the practice of HPSEB to prepare longer term
financial forecasts needed for effective planning and operation of the
utility. Key operational and financial data and indicators should be
prepared on a routine basis to facilitate timely management decisions.
Accordingly, the Board proposes to engage consultants to provide training
and assistance in:   (i) implementing the new Accounting System; (ii)
preparing projected financial statements based on a 10-year forecast period;
and (iii) introducing a modern computerized management information system
(MIS). The consultants will provide training to HPSEB accounting and
finance staff and will assist in the finalization of year end accounts for
two financial years. They will assist HPSEB to procure appropriate computer
equipment, and software for use in financial planning and in the MIS, and
will provide related training. In conjunction with these efforts the
consultants will also help HPSEB design and implement a management
information system which will provide HPSEB's senior management with
valuable financial and operational information on a timely basis. The
implementation of an improved MIS will significantly enhance management's
capacity to effectively manage the Board's operations.   Consequently, HPSEB
will be undertaking an Accounting and MIS study with the assIstance of
consultants to help it introduce a modern MIS and improve ite finanicial
planning and management. The scope of work for the proposed Accounting and
MIS Study is contained in Annex 3.7. The Accounting and MIS Study will be
carried out upon completion of the Utility Management Study. This is to
ensure that the findings of the Utility Management Study will be
incorporated in the Accounting and MIS Study.
Fixed Asset Accounting
2.21     HPSEB's fixed asset registers reflect historical costs as required
by GOI. However, the registers do not accurately reflect the original value
of the Board's plant and equipment. The value of some assets is understated
or overstated owing to inaccurate record keeping, inappropriate allocation
of costs associated with capital works and because obsolete assets have not
always been written off.  In view of the projected increase in HPSEB's asset
base from FY88 to FY96 by over ten times the present value, the Board



-22-
recognizes the need to establish an appropriate fixed asset recording
system. Consequently one of the objectives of the Accounting and MIS Study,
included in the Project, is to establish such a system as required by the
new CAS.
Audit
2.22     HPSEB has an internal audit unit headed by the Chief Auditor who
reports to the Member Finance. He supervises the work of 24 internal audit
parties which audit all monetary transaction including capital expenditures,
stores purchases, billing and collections etc. In the past, the
improvements ir. record keeping which were recommended by the audit unit were
not properly implemented by the line managers. To correct this deficiency
the Member Finance has recently introduced procedural changes requiring
concerned Chief Engineers to take corrective actions within specified time
periods. Quarterly progress reports, monitoring their progress are
submitted to the Board for review. HPSEB's internal audit arrangements are
satisfactory.
2.23     The Comptroller and Auditor General of India, through his
representative, the Auditor General of Himachal Pradesh is responsible for
the external audit of HPSEB's accounts. The quality of audit is
satisfactory. The Board is required by the Electricity (Supply) Act to
finalize its accounts and have them audited within six months of the end of
the financial year to which they relate. However, HPSEB has been late in
finalizing and auditing its accounts for the past several years. GOHP has
agreed to cause HPSEB to furnish to the Bank its audited financial
statements together with the Auditor's Report and certification by the
Auditor General of Himachal Pradesh as soon as they are available but in any
case no later than nine months from the end of the financial year under
consideration (para 6.03(d)).
Billing and Collections
2.24     HPSEB serves about 700,000 consumers, of which, about 88% are
domestic consumers accounting for about 50% of the connected load.
Approximately 9% of consumers are in the commercial category and they draw
about 14% of the load. Only about 2% of consumers are in industry but they
account f&r about 25% of consumption. The balance is divided among public
lighting, ag-iculture and other miscellaneous consumers. All electricity
consumption witnin HPSEB's system is metered. Meter reading and billing is
done on a monthly basis for all industrial and agricultural consumers. For
other consumers in urban areas, meter readings are recorded every two months
but the bills are issued monthly, and are based on an estimate of average
consumption for interim months in which meter readings are not taken. In
rural areas, the meter readings for the non industrial and non agricultural
consumers are recorded every four months but the bills are issued every two
months based on estimates of average consumption.   HPSEB levies penalty
charges for late payments. Computerization of consumer billing has not yet
been introduced. In view of the rural nature and broad geographic dispersal
of HPSEB's consumers, the existing decentralized manual billing system is
appropriate. However, HPSEB is presently investigating the benefit of



-23-
introducing computerized billing for the Shimla area. Accounts receivable
outstanding as of FY88 is estimated at I s 353 million equivalent to roughly
eight months sales of electricity.  GOHP has agreed to cause HPSEB to reduce
HPSEB's accounts receivable from no more than 6 months average monthly sales
of electricity in FY89 to 2 months electricity sales by FY91 and maintain
them at that level thereafter (paras 4.12(f) and 6.03(a)).
Income Taxes
2.25     HPSEB is liable for income tax.  However, its accumulated losses,
and the accelerated depreciation allowed for tax purposes in respect of its
investment program, are such that it will not incur income tax obligations
during the period of the financial projections. A tax equalization reserve
is therefore not required.
Electricity Tariff
2.26     HP.EB's tariff structure as of March 1987 is summarized in Annex
2.3. The tariff structure is generally simple and easy to administer.
However, the tariff levels have been insufficient to meet its financial
requirements (para 4.10). The largest categories of consumption (i.e.,
medium and large industrial consumers, domestic and commercial) are subject
to a two tier system of pricing with a separate rate applicable to higher
levels of consumption. Commercial and medium and large industrial consumers
are also subject to a minimum rate on the connected load and must enter
into a separate agreement with HPSEB, involving higher charges in order to
obtain power during the peak load hours of the day. HPSEB requires the
approval of GOHP to introduce any changes in its tariff structure or rates.
III. THE PROJECT
Projget Setting
3.01     The Northern Region of India,/ where the proposed Project is
located, is experiencing acute power deficits. Unconstrained peak capacity
requirements in 1987 for the Region were estimated at 12,000 MW and annual
energy demand at 61,000 GWh. The load met was about 75% of the
unconstrained demand and only 90% of the energy requirements were supplied.
CEA's demand projections show that in 1995 the capacity demand would reach
25,600 MW, which implies an annual rate of growth of 9.6% during the 1987-95
period. Similarly, energy consumption is expectpd to reach 131,000 GWh
during that year, equivalent to 10% per annum growth. As a result of
present shortages, utilities in the Region have had to resort to rationing.
In addition, poor voltage and frequency regulation have increased costs to
users particularly to industry (consuming about 52% of the electricity
supplied) and to agriculture (consuming 30% of the supply). Moreover, the
lack of hydropower capacity in this predominantly thermal system has
]/ The Northern Region of India comprises the states of Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and the
Union Territories of Chandigarh and Delhi.



-24-
resulted in uneconomic peaking with thermal units. Maintenance schedules
cannot be adhered to frequently because of the pressure on the utilities to
maintain the supply sacrificing in this manner the long-term life of the
plant. In view of the poor supply, many industrial and agricultural
consumers have resorted to the use of standby generating equipment and
diesel motors for irrigation pumps. These have higher capital unit costs
than the large utility installations and operate on high value petroleum
products. The least cost power expansion plan prepared by CEA for the
Region contemplates an increase in installed capacity from 14,200 MW in 1987
to 28,300 MW in 1995 and includes, as expected, a number of hydroelectric
schemes to alleviate the situation. The most important projects are:
Chamera (780 MW) being financed by the Canadian Government; Uri (480 MW) for
which GOI is negotiating bilateral assistance; Kholdam (600 MW) under
construction; Srinagar (380 MW) being financed by the Bank under the Uttar
Pradesh Power Project; and, the proposed Nathpa Jhakri Scheme (1,500 NW).
3.02     HPSEB will be one of the beneficiaries of the power generated at
Nathpa Jhakri. However, HPSEB's system needs to be strengthened to be able
to use its share of power. In addition, the existing transmission system in
the State is overloaded in many sections resulting in poor service quality,
increased losses in the lines, and reduced revenues. HPSEB's system
operates several power plants and major substations many of them located in
remote places in the rugged Himalayan region. HPSEB presently relies on
deficient telephone and power-line carrier communications for the
coordination of its operations and for the dispatch of the generating
plants. Not all major facilities are connected to the communications
network. The complexity of the system and its projected growth justify a
strengthened communications system and a basic central load dispatch
facility. The proposed project includes the provision of communications and
load dispatch facilities that would permit a more efficient use of the
existing plant and would reduce the response time of the center in case of
emergencies or breakdowns.
3.03     HPSEB's organizational structure is adequate in respect of its
present and projected objectives and size. However, the respc.asibilities of
the different organizational units need to be revised to eliminate existing
duplications and, more importantly, to add essential tasks not being
presently performed (para 2.10). Similarly, systems and procedures in use
are outdated and unsuitable to the administrative duties of the Board. In
this regard one of the most pressing needs is the modernization of the
financial wing and the full implementation of a commercial accounting
system, as prescribed by GOI. The proposed Project will address these
issues and provide training for HPSEB's staff as necessary in the operation
of the new systems.
3.04     Because of the increased emphasis on development of hydroelectric
capacity in India, the central agencies responsible for vetting and
providing the engineering services for this kind of projects have been
severely taxed. The problem has been compounded by a number of factors of
which the most important are the need for: (i) improved standards in
project preparation required to secure external financing; (ii) high-quality
bidding documents required by the increased volume of procurement subject to



-25-
international tendering as opposed to the traditional local tendering in
India; (MiO) increased productivity of the organizations responsible for
the technical work; and, (iv) improved methods for the selection of
investments ln the power sector. To these ends the ptoposed Project takes a
two-prong approach. Expatriate consultants will assist CEA, CWC and other
institutions in the implementation of a training program to strengthen their
capabilities for planning, preparation, design, and management of hydropower
projects.  In parallel, expatriate consultants will assist NJPC staff and
supplement local experts in the preparation of final design and supervision
of construction of the proposed Nathpa Jhakri power plant.
Proiect Objectives
3.05     The principal objectives of the proposed Project are to:
(a) increase the power capacity of the Northern Region System; (b) improve
the reliability of supply and reduce system losses in Himachal Pradesh;
(c) strengthen the operational performance of HPSEB; and (d) improve and
modernize the capabilities of government institutions for preparation,
design and construction supervision of hydropower projects.
Project DescriRtion
3.06     The proposed project comprises:
(A)  Construction of the Nathpa Jhakri power station including:A/
(a) a 60 m high and 155 m long gravity dam across the Sutlej
River, and intake and underground desilting chambers;
(b)  a 30 km long head-race tunnel, about 10 m in diameter with a
maximum capacity of 405 m3/sec;
(c) a 130 m deep and 25 m in diameter surge tank;
(d) three steel lined pressure shafts 650 m long and 6.0 m
diameter, bifurcating at the downstream end into 60 m long
4.0 m in diameter branches;
(e) an underground power house, transformer cavern and switchyard
for 6x250 MW generating units for a nominal head of 468 m and
ancillary equipment;
(f)  a 280 m long, 10 m wide arch-typc tail race tunnel discharging
back in the Sutlej River;
(g) implementation of a resettlement and rehabilitation program
for the population dislocated by the project;
(h) implementation of a plan to protect the environment in the
project area; and
Dimensions subject to minor changes as detailed engineering is carried
out.



-26-
(i) consultancy services as needed for design and supervision of
the construction of the power station.
(B) A program of physical and institutional improvements for the power
system of Himachal Pradesh including:
(a)  construction of about 500 km of 132 kV transmission lines and
associated substations, totalling about 184 MVA, to expand and
reinforce the transmission system in Himachal Pradesh,
including tools and transport equipment for construction,
inspection and maintenance of. the system;
(b)  installation of a communication system and a state load
dispatch facility for control and operation of the Himachal
Pradesh power system;
(c)  preparation of a 10 year transmission Plan for HPSEB;
(d)  preparation and implementation of an Accounting and Management
Information Study and Utility Management Study to streamline
HPSEB operations including:
(i) implementing a commercial accounting system;
(ii)  training for accounting staff;
(iii)  establishing a fixed asset accounting system;
(iv) provision of computer equipment, software and training for
financial planning and operations;
(v) establishing a management information system;
(vi) undertaking a redistribution and reorganization of
responsibilities according to main functional lines
(planning, design and construction, operation and
maintenance, financial management, metering, billing and
collections and administrative services); and
(vii) establisking and implementing a training plan for HPSEB's
managerial, technical and clerical staff;
(e) consultancy services as needed to implement the physical and
institutional improvements of HPSEB.
(C)  Implementation of a training program to strengthen the capabilities
of CEA, CWC and other selected agencies to plan, design and manage
hydropower projects with particular emphasis on underground works.
The program includes the acquisition of specialized office
engineering equipment, technical literature, computer hardware and
software, office space to install such facilities, and consultancy
services as needed to implement the program.



-27-
Annex 3.1 gives a detailed description of the Project and Annex 3.7, the
suggested scope for the consultancy services under the proposed project.
Project Engineering
3.07     CWC, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) and the HPSEB have been
investigating the Nathpa Jhakri scheme for about 20 years. The engineering
designs for the power station are at the bidding stage of preparation.
HPSEB h.ss prepared bid documents and technical specifications for the civil
works and general conditions, conditions of contract and special conditions
for procurement of major equipment. The technical specifications for the
tx:w bo generating units and for other major equipment are under preparation.
HPSEB has prepared the designs with the assistance of CEA for the
electromechanical equipment and CWC for the civil works. HPSEB has
appointed a five-member Panel of Experts (POE) to review the technical
aspects of the power plnt. The terms of reference for the POE (Annex 3.7)
are acceptable to the Bank. However, the present composition of the POE may
need to be modified during the detailed design and construction stages, to
include other specialists in rock mechanics, geotechnical engineering and
sediments as nieeded. The terms of reference enable the POE to retain
temporary memters or advisors in specific disciplines. To expedite the
recruitment of temporary or permanent members of the POE, NJPC will maintain
during the construction period a roster of specialists in different
dssciplines from which POE members can be selected. The roster and the
qt4alifications of the candidates included in it will be furnished to the
Bank for comments no later than June 30, 1989 (para 6.02(b)). Any
subsequent additions to the roster should bA acceptable to the Bank. The
POE would oversee the technical aspects of project implementation until
commissioning of the last generating unit.
3.08     The scale of the under-olind works for Nathpa Jhakri is
unprecedented in India and amongst the largest in the world. The size of
the generating units (250 MW) exceeds considerably the largest hydropower
unit ever installed in the country (169 MW).   Furthermore, the need to
excavate four major underground desilting caverns in addition to the ones
for the power house and for the transformers, presents design and
corstruction complexities which call for the use of state of the art
engineering in this field. Therefore, NJPC will retain consultants under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Corporation in
the preparation of the detailed design and the supervision of the
construction of the power station. NJPC will issue a letter of intent to
the selected consultants no later than June 30, 1989 (para 6.02(c)). NJPC
will sign a contract with the selected consultant within 60 days of the
letter of intent (para 6.02(c)).  The lead consultant to the ^oject will be
CEA. NJPC will establish a project design and supervision team with the
independent consultants, its own staff, CEA's, CWC's, GSI's and HPSEB's
staff on full-time deputation to this project. All will work under a
unified direction.  The details of such arrangements, including organizati;n
chart, the specific staff positions to be filled with staff from each
organization and duties and responsibility of each unit within the design-
supervision team will be furnished to the Bank for review, no later than
June 30, 1989 (para 6.02(d)). In case CEA or CWC or GSI are not able to



-28-
furnish the agreed staff, they will be supplied by the independent
consulhzaits. In order to facilitate CEA, CWC and GSI assistance to the
Project, NJPC will enter into consultancy contracts with these institutions
under which NJPC will cover the cost of the services provided. The Bank
will finance all reimbursable expenditures, except salaries and fringes of
the staff. These contracts will be signed before June 30, 1989.
3.09     The site investigation and engineering work conducted thus far are
sufficient to determine costs of the power station at the bidding level.
There are, however, a number of additional studies which need to be
completed for the preparation of the detailed designs. These include,
intgr alia, hydraulic modelling of the intake area and debilting chamber, a
number of geotechnical tests to confirm rock properties and collection and
processing of additional sediment data. These tasks will be completed
before mid 1989 when the bulk of the detailed construction drawings will be
required. The Project will include funds to retroactively finance the
expenditures for equipment, materia.s and services contracted for these
investigations incurred after April 1, 1988, and before the date of the loan
agreement (para 3.18). Engineering for the transmission component in
Himachal Pradesh is at feasibility level. The detailed route survey is
underway and will be finalized by March 31, 1989.
Project Implementation and Construction Schedule
3.10     The Project will be implemented over a period of 8 years.  Annex
3.2 shows the implementation schedule for the Project. NJPC will be
responsible for the construction of the power station with the support of
CEA, CWC and consultants (para 3.08).  N'PC will also implement the
resettlement and environment protection plan associated with the power
plant. Access roads to the construction fronts, campsites and power supply
for construction are ready which allows immediate start of works.
Prequalification of contractors for the civil works of the powerhouse has
taken place. The first generating unit will be commissioned in June 1995
and the remaining five units will be operative at three months' irntervals
thereafter. The sixth unit will be commissioned in December 1996. NJPC has
proposed a field organization which is adequate to implement the power
station (Annex 3.8). NJPC will give the Bank opportunity to comment on any
substantial changes on the organization before they are implemented (para
6.02(i)). HPSEB will be responsible for the implementation of the
transmission component, the load dispatch and communications system and the
institutional development program for the SEB. HPSEB will prepare the
detailed engineering for the 132 kV transmission lines and for the
associated substations including the specifications for the procurement of
materials and equipment. HPSEB has adequate in-house expertise to carry out
this task and no external assistance is envisaged. Consultants acceptable
to the Bank will, however, assist HPSEB in the design and selection of the
load dispatch and communication equipment. CEA will implement the training
program for CEA, CWC, GSI and other selected agencies.  GOI agreed_to
establish a training unit in CEA, before June 30, 1989, and appoint a
coordinator to implement the training program (para 6.01(a)). CEA's
training coordinator will be responsible for the overall administration of
the program, and will serve as the liaison between the beneficiary



-29-
institutions, the consultants, and the Bank for all matters related to this
project component. Most likely there will be more th3n one consultant for
this program because it consists of a number of modules for CEA on plannir.g
and electromechanical disciplines, and a civil engineering module for CWC.
The main training consultants for CWC and those for HPSEB institutional
improvement plan will be retained before June 30, 1989, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Water Rights
3.11     The proposed Nathpa Jhakri power station is located on the Sutlej
River, which o.-iginates in the Tibetan Plateau and flows into Pakistan where
it becomes a tributary of the Indus River. The Sutlej is subject to the
provisions of the 1960 Indus Water Treaty between Itndia and Pak'stan. The
two Governments established the permanent Indus Commission under the treaty
to facilitate implementation of its provisions. It serves as regular
channel of communication between the two governments on relevant matters
referred to in the Treaty. The Sutlej is an Eastern river under the terms
of the Treaty and consequently, India has the unrestricted use of Its
waters. Furthermore, the scheme is a run-of-the-river facility which would
affect river flows on a daily basis only. The daily flow fluctuations,
however, will be fully attenuated over the downstream reaches of the river
and at the Bhakra Dam located 148 km downstream on the Sutlej river, which
has been in operation since 1963, and has a live storage 1,700 times that of
Nathpa Jhakri. Accordingly, the Bank is satisfied that the project will not
result in any adverse effects on the quality, the quantity or the time-
distribution of water flows into Pakistan. The project does not cause any
upstream flooding because the maximum level of water in the diversion
pondage is controlled by the existing Bhaba power station located about 8 km
upstream of Nathpa Jhakri in Himachal Pradesh.  There are no pending water
rights disputes that could affect project construction or operation.  The
Bank is satisfied that the proposed project will not cause any harm to the
interests of the riparians.
Resettlement
3.12     In view of the absence of a major reservoir, only 457 ha of land
needs to be appropriated for the Nathpa Jhakri scheme and much Is river bed.
The diversion pond lies in a 300 m deep canyon. The rest of the works are
underground. This means few people need to be resettled. About 73
families, will be affected, involving a total of 47 ha of land. There are
neither squatters nor landless people in this area. Employment is so high
that Nepali, Bihari, and Rajasthani labor is currently imported to Himachal
Pradesh. The small reservoir lies within Kinnaur Province, largely
inhabited by the Kinnauri Tribal people who are Buddhist in this mainly
Hindu State, and who speak their own language (Kinnauri), although many also
speak Hindi. Owing to the location of the reservoir in a deep canyon, no
Kinnauri tribal people will be affected. All 73 affected families have been
consulted. The local legislature (Panchayat) helped to choose the new
sites, all of which are within about one kilometer of the areas to be
acquired by the Project. Cash compensation is not envisaged. All displaced
families will be given land commens'trate with land of equivalent productive



-30-
capacity. The leader of the community (Lumbru Ram of Chakri) representing
53 displaced famil.es reported that all displaced families are satisfied
with the planned res_ttlement partly because less than one third are
dependent upon the land to be forfeited. The remaining two thirds lose only
a small portion of their holdings and in any event support themselves by
paid employment or in shopkeeping. They are further satisfied because few
displaced families plan to live on their resettlement plot; most are said to
plan to build near relativas and will move into dwellings on their other
holdings.  Most plan to use their reseztlement plot for agriculture.
Although Himachal Pradesh provides the temperate fruit (e.g. apples,
peaches, plums, almonds, apricots) of India, no fruit trees would be
inundated.  HPSEB's Land Acqulsition office, in conjunction with the Revenue
Department, will assess assets to be lost by displaced families, and will
calculate equivalent compensation in order to specify the new relocation
sites for each family. HPSEB has prepared a detailed resettlement plan.
The Bank has reviewed the plan and found it acceptable. The project
provides funds to finance part of dhe costs of the resettlement program.
Environmental Aspects
3.13     The environmental impact of this project is minor for the following
reasons: (a) the power plant is a run-of-the river facility; (b) the dam
and the reservoir would be located at the bottom of a 300 m, deep canyon;
all the remaining structures would be underground; (c) since the river is at
the bottom of the canyon, few people ever approach the river and fewer live
near it; (d) the Bhakra reservoir, would eliminate any daily flow variations
resulting from peaking operations of the plant (para 3.11). GOI has cleared
the Nathpa Jhakri scheme with regard to environmental and forest aspects.
HPSEB has applied for forest clearance for most of the transmission lines
contemplated in this project. No difficulties are er'"isaged in obtaining
the clearance because many of the lines run through corridors where other
lines already exist, and the new ones would be routed to minimize forest
crossing. GOHP has agreed to cause HPSEB to submit the remaining
applications for forest clearance for the transmission lines and substations
under the project no later than June 30, 1989 (para 6.03(e)). In addition,
the Bank will not disburse against transmission lines and associated
substations until all the forest clearances are obtained (para 6.06). The
most important environmental aspects of the proposed project are as follows:
(a) Water-borne Diseases. Water-borne diseases are not expected to
become a problem for five main reasons. First, the project will be
operated as run-of-river, so little or no disease vector breeding
habitat will be created. Second, there is little water storage;
the 457 ha reservoir is largely contained in the river bed and
canyon. Third, the project site is far (300) north latitude in
mountains commonly higher than 3,000 m, although the reservoir lies
in a canyon at less than 1000 m above sea level. This means
temperatures are too cold for much of the year for aquatic disease
vector proliferation. Fourth, the project is distant from the
known foci of schistosomiasis (bilharzia) in Ratnagiri Province,
Maharashtra. Fifth, Himachal Pradesh is a "Malaria-free" state of
the Union.



-31-
(b) Forest and Wildlife. The "forest land" of the project region
includes some productive plantations of Chir Pine (Pinus r3xburghi)
but little, if any, intact natural forest partly because of the
high elevation steep rock and cliff substrate of the area and
partly from population pressures, both human and livestock (cows,
goats, sheep). Therefore there is little wildlife in the general
area and especially in the affected areas. There are no migratory
fishes in the river to be affected by the scheme. The project has
been carefully designed in order to minimize damage to pine
plantations. Access roads to the construction fronts have been
already constructed with no noticeable effects on ecology because
the alignment of the project runs parallel to the existing national
highway from Shimla to Shipkila (NH 22) at an average distance of
only half a kilometer from it. A total of 118 ha of forest
plantation would be used in the overall project, mainly for work
areas and adits. No reserve forest will be affected by the dam or
submergence area. Even so, some 800 trees will be felled on 14.4
ha to be cleared in the pine plantations of Pashada to open a
quarry for quartzitic aggregate needed for the project which is not
available elsewhere according to an extensive search done by GSI.
Compensatory forest plantations have been planned by HPSEB's
Foresters in conjunction with the Forest Department.  All areas
used will be graded, restored and reforested after use. In
compensation for 118 ha (10,517 trees) used, HPSEB has acquired 160
ha near Rampur (42 ha more than required) in order to plant 200,000
trees. HPSEB has agreed to include as part of the construction
specifications for the transmission lines adequate provision to
stabilize and restore the soil disturbed by the construction work.
(c) Cultural Property. Because the general habitation level is of the
order of 300 m above the Sutlej bed, there is little human contact
with the river in this largely canyon stretch. The Bank is
satisfied that there are no cultural properties (e.g. archeological
sites) likely to be affected. The main shrine, a temple to the
godess Khali, is at 11,000 ft. on the Kotla-Kunni road, hence
safely distant from the scheme.
(d)  Instream Flows.  Water will be spilled during the April to June
snow melting period and through the July to September monsoon
period. During the October to March period the Project will be
operated as a peaking facility and a minimum discharge (above
average lean season flows) will be maintained. There is no
irrigation and no cattle watering (or human habitation) downstream
from the dam. The first major tributory enters the Sutlej 4 km
below the Nathpa Jhakri dam.
GOI has prepared a satisfactory plan to implement the proposed afforestation
and environmental protection measures. The Project provides for Bank
financing of part of the costs of this component.



-32-
Proece Cost
3.14     Table 3.1 shows a summary of Project costs.  Annex 3.3 presents the
detailed cost estimates.
Table  3.1: Project Cost Summary
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Local    Foreie    Total  Local  ForAig  Total
(Rupees Million)       (US$ million)
A. Nathpa Jhakri Power Station
- Land, and Site Preparation       1043.7       -  1043.7   78.5    -       78.5
Resettlement of Population             6.7      -      6.7    0.5    -       0.5
Environment Protection Prog.          13.5      -     13.5    1.0    -        1.0
Dam, Intake & Desilting Works        660.7   962.1  1622.8   49.7   72.3   122.0
Head.-ce Tunnel & Surge Tank,       1445.6  2450.8  3896.4  108.7  184.    293.0
Pressure Shaft, Powerhouse &
Tailrace Tunnel                 3553.Q  3339.0  6892.0  267.1  251.Z    518.2
Sub-Total                          6723.2  6751.9 13475.1  505.5  507.7  1013.2
B. Expansion & Reinforcement of
Transmission in H.P.            513.0    44.8   557.9   38.6    3.4    41.9
C. Communication & Load Dispatch
for HPSEB                        33.1      -      33.1    2.5    -       2.5
D. Institutional Development for
HPSEB                             11.0     9.2    20.0    0.8    0.7     1.5
E. Training Program & Assistance
for CWC                          22.2    33.1   _55.3 _1.7  -2.          4.2
Total Baseline Costs                7302.6  6839.0 14141.6  549.1  514.2  1063.3
Physical Contingencies             1224.9  1518.5  2743.4   92.1  114.2   206.3
Price Contingencies                2190.7  2506.9  46.97.7   94.1  110.9   205.1
Total Project Cost                10718.2 10864.5 21582.7  735.3  739.3  1474.6
Interest During Construction       3021.1  2578.8  5599,9  195.0  167.0   362.0
Total Financing Required           13739.3 13443.3 27182.6  930.3  906.3  1836.6
The total cost of the Project including physical ard price contingencies
(but excluding about $170 million equivalent of taxes and duties) is about
$1,300 million equivalent of which US$740 million (56%) represents the
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction
adds another $362 million to the financing required. The project costs are
based on September 1988 forecast prices which were derived from: (a)
contractor-type analysis of unit prices (heavy-construction estimating
method) prepared for the civil works of Nathpa Jhakri; (b) recent quotations
received for similar equipment and miscellaneous civil works in India; and
(c) inquiries with manufacturers of major rotating equipment. Quantities
were obtained from designs at tender level for the power plant and from
feasibility estimates for the transmission component.   The cost of
consulting services was based on an estimated 600 man-months, of which about



-33-
200 man-months are expected to h.a from local consultants.  An allowance of
3% of the base cost has been made for engineering and administration of the
power plant, in addition to the consulting services, and of 5% for other
Project components.  Physical contingencies have been provided for as
follows: (a) 30% of the base cost for all underground works; (b) 20% of the
base cost for all other works; (c) 10% of the base cost for materials and
equipment. These allowances are in line with the status of Project design
and with the risks of extra costs for complex underground works such as
those contemplated under the proposed Project. Price contingencies, which
amount to 19% of the base cost, are based on expected annual inflation rates
of 6% for local costs and 4% for foreign costs over the entire construction
period. Interest during construction has been calculated on the basis that
half of the power station cost would be funded by equity and half by loan
from GOI bearing an interest of 14.5% per annum, which is the current
interest rate for GCI loans to Central Government Corporations.
Project Financing
3.15     The proposed Bank financing for this Project is US$485 million,
equivalent to about 37% of the total financing requirements, net of duties
and taxes. The Bank loan will be lent to India. About $5 million will be
retained by GOT to finance the training program for CEA, CWC and other
institutions. About US$43 million would be onlent through the GOHP to HPSEB
for expansion and reinforcement of the transmission system, institutional
development and implementation of communications and load dispatch
facilities for HPSEB. The balance of US$437 million would be onlent to
NJPC, for the implementation of the hydropower plant. GOI will seek
cofinancing, particularly for major equipment, in the amount of US$300
million equivalent from bilateral donors, export and suppliers' credits or
commercial Banks. GOI has already received expressions of interest from
donor countries and suppliers of equipment, including concrete financing
proposals which are under consideration.  In case cofinancing materializes
for any project item in excess of that envisaged under the proposed
financing plan, the Bank has agreed to reallocate any Bank funds no longer
needed for that item to other items of the project.  Any sums not financed
by cofinanciers will be financed by GOI, GOHP and, for the Himachal Pradesh
Component, HPSEB's own generated funds. GOI will bear the exchange rate and
interest risks. Table 3.2 gives the project financing plan.
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Forei       Total
IBRD                            55.0       430.0      485.0
Cofinanciers                               300.0      300.0
GOI/GOHP/HPSEB                 875.3       176.3    l.Q51.6
930.3       906.3    1,836.6



-34-
On-Lending Arran_ements
3.16     The on-lending terms from GOI to NJPC will be established in a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement which will provide for a maturity of 20 years,
including a grace period of five years with interest payable on outstanding
balance at not less than 14.5% per year. This rate is consistent with GOI's
interest rate on loan funds provided to central government corporations.
The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank will
be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 6.05). GOI will also onlend
about US$43 million from the proposed Bank loan to GOHP, which will in turn
onlend it to HPSEB. GOHP will on-lend the proceeds of the loan to HPSEB at
the standard interest rate it charges for loans to its corporations and
agencies but not less than 10.5% p.a., with a repayment period of twenty
years, including a grace period of five years (para 6.04).
Procurement
3.17     Table 3.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the proposed
Project.
Table 3.3: Summarv of Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ Million)
ICB      LCB    Other bi N.A. S/   Total
Land and Site Preparation                             76.8    10.2       87.0
Civil Works                         724.0     8.0                       732.0
(221.7)   (3.6)                     (225.3)
Materials and Equipment             566.9    33.3      2.0              602.2
(249.4)     -      (1.6)            (251.0)
Training and Consulting Services                      8 7                8.7
(8.7)             (8.7)
Gompensation and Other Expenses
for Resettlement and
Environment Protection                                       1.3       1.3
Engineering and Administration                         _      43.4      43.4
Total                         1,290.9    41.3     87.5    54.9    1474.6
(471.1)   (3.6)   (10.3)    -       (485.0)
/ Amounts include taxes and duties (US$170 million), and figures between
brackets are the Bank-financed portion.
h/  Direct contracting, international and local shopping and employment of
consultants.
q/  Land acquisitior, administrative overheads and items not subject to
commercial procurement.
Annex 3.4 shows the detailed procurement arrangements and Annex 3.5, the
timetable for processing the individual contract packages. All contracts
for civil works with an estimated cost of US$10 million equivalent or more



-35-
and most other contracts for supply of goods financed by the Bank, will be
subject to ICB. Prior review would apply to civil works bidding documents
for contracts tendered under ICB. Other contracts for works will be awarded
after LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign suppliers will not be
precluded from participating in LCB. About 87% of the goods and services
will be subject to ICB. The balance will be subject to procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Local contractors, competing under ICB
will have a 7.5% of preference margin for civil works and local
manufacturers a 15% preference or the applicable duty, whichever is less,
for supply of goods. Survey equipment, laboratory instruments and
equipment, specialized office engineering equipment and computer hardware
and software, up to an aggregate cost of US$5 million may be procured
through international or local shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
The Bank will review ex-ante the lists of items to be pirocured through
international or local shopping.  Consultants will bc selected in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants. All civil works
contracts with an estimated cost of US$10 million or more equivalent will be
subject to the Bank's prior review. All contracts for supply of goods
financed by the Bank with an estimated cost of US$1 million equivalent or
more will also be subject to Bank's prior review. A standard bidding
document acceptable to the Bank will be used for ICB procurement of goods.
Overall, prior review would apply to about 95% of the Bank financed
elements. Other Bank financed contracts would be subject to selective post
award review.
Disbursements
3.18     Disbursements of Bank funds will be made against:  (a) 60% of the
CI cost or of the ex-factory cost (if manufactured in India) of equipment
and materials procured under ICB and international or local shopping for the
Nathpa Jhakri power plant and 100% of the CIF or of the ex-factory cost of
equipment and materials procured for other project components; (b) 65% of
the cost of the civil works for the Nathpa Jhakri power plant ur to a
maximum of $200 mi'llion equivalent and 20% of the cost of the civil works
thereafter; (c) 60% of the cost of the civil works for the transmission
component in Himachal Pradesh; (d) 60% of eligible works for en-vironment
protection and resettlement of population;V/ and (e) 100% of consulting and
training services, including POE's services and eligible expenditures for
CWC and CEA consulting services to the project. Disbursements will be fully
documented except for payments against civil works, training, equipment,
materials, consultants, and compensatory afforestation contracts each less
than US$200,000 equivalent. Such disbursements will be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation of which will not be
sent to the Bank but retained by FJPC, HPSEB and CEA, as appropriate, for
inspection by the supervision missions. Standard procedures for auditing
SOEs will apply. To facilitate disbursements, a special account will be
established by GOI with an authorized allocation of US$35 million. The
estimated disbursement schedule is consistent with the standard disbursement
-/ Eligible items include those works awarded under LCB or contracted with
government agencies but exclude land acquisition and compensation paid
to affected population.



-36-
profile for power projects in India. The Bank agreed to finance
retroactively up to US$5 million of eligible expenditures incurred after
April 1, 1988 for consultancy work for project preparation including
laboratory testing, hydraulic modeling, field investigation, survey
equipment, laboratory instruments and equipment, office engineering
equipment and other specialized equipment. Annex 3.6 shows the schedule of
estimated disbursements for Bank funds. The closing date for the loan will
be December 31, 1997.
Project Operation
3.19     The Nathpa Jhakri power plant will be part of the integrated system
of the Northern Region. It will be operated and maintained by NJPC. The
load dispatch will be coordinated through the Northern Region Electricity
Board. GOI and GOHP have agreed that HPSEB is entitled to 37% of the output
of the plant and the remaining 63% will be available for sale to other SEBs
in the Region in accordance with the allocations to be established by the
REB. Any surpluses of HPSEB's share not consumed in the state will be also
available for sale to other SEBs. The station will operate as a run-of-the-
river facility meeting base load requirements during monsoon and snow-melting
periods (April to October) and peak load during the rest of the year
(September to March). There are no water uses downstream from the station
that may constrain the plant operation. The power station will generate 775
MW (6,700 GWh) of firm power per annum at 90% dependability, and an average
power of 805 MW (7,050 GWh) per annum. The transmission system to link the
Nathpa Jhakri power plant to the Northern Region grid is part of a separate
project, the Northern Region Transmission Project, which GOI has proposed for
Bank financing and is currently under preparation. The project is in the
lending program for FY89. GOI wiZl furnish to the Bank, no later than June
30, 1989, a satisfactory timetable of key actions, including a full
assessment of environmental impact, for the preparation and implementation of
the Northern Region Transmission Project.  GOI will implement the project in
accordance with the agreed timetable (para 6.01(b)).
Project Monitoring
3.20     NJPC, HPSEB and CWC will furnish to the Bank quarterly progress
reports covering physical works, consultancy services, costs, disbursements
and administrative aspects of the project.   NJPC will be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the quarterly report covering all project
components. The reports will be due 45 days after the end of the calendar
quarter. The first quarterly report will relate to the quarter ending
September 30, 1989. In addition other reports will be required on the
financial and operational results of HPSEB and on t.. administrative and
managerial situation of the Board. NJPC will make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank to periodically inspect the safety and operating conditions of
the Nathpa Jhakri scheme. The proposed arrangements will be furnished to the
Bank one year before the expected completion of the dam (para 6.02(j)).



-37-
Project Risks
3.21     The proposed Nathpa Jhakri scheme presents the usual risks
associated with major underground works such as unexpected geological
conditions that may adversely affect the cost or the construction schedule or
both.  Hvvever, an intensive geological exploration program (Annex 3.1) and
the excavation works carried out for the Bhaba power project, an underground
scheme immediately upstream of Nathpa Jhakri indicate that the geological
setting of Nathpa Jhakri is adequate for the proposed work, and that these
risks are at an acceptable level. The scale of the Nathpa Jhakri scheme in
terms of underground excavation is beyond any similar project previously
built in India.   Therefore, the necessary expertise may not be locally
available to deal with eventual technical issues. This risk is being
minimized by the provision within the project for external qualified
consultancy assistance for the completion of detailed designs and for
supervision of the construction.   Heavy sediment loads carried by the Sutlej
river, particularly during monsoon, may result ii frequency and costs of
equipment and works maintenance higher than average. Excessive siltation of
the forebay pond might also restrict full load operating time. The project,
however, provides for facilities to periodically flush sediments from the
forebay pond, and to remove sediments from water used for generation. The
selection and specification of equipment wouid mirimize maintenance time and
frequency. In case these measures are not as effective as expected, a
compensatory storage barrage of about 1.5 Nm3 capacity, equipped with gates
wqild be constructed upstream of the pond to operate during the low flow
season when Eediment loads are small (Annex 3.1, para 4). The Bank considers
these provisions adequate to minimize the risk of major discrepancies between
actual project performance and that assumed for planning and design purposes.
The Bank is satisfied that the Sutlej flows originating in India are
sufficient to operate the power plant as planned. Therefore, the effects of
any extractions of water from the Sutlej upstream of the Indian border do not
pose any significant risk to the project. The transmission and training
components do not present any extraordinary risks.
IV. FINANCE
A. Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation
Introduction
4.01     The NJPC will have an initial authorized share capital of Rs 10
billion (US$752 million). Further capital increases will be subject to GOI
and GOHP approval. The Corporation is empowered under its Articles of
Association to charge electricity rates which will be based on all costs of
generation and provide for a return on equity. NJPC revenues will be derived
from selling power under contractual arrangements to state electricity boards
and -=-her major purchasers of power located in the Northern Region of India.



-38-
NJPC Financing Plan
4.02     NJPC's financing plan for the period of execution of the proposed
power station, i.e., FY89-FY97, is presented in Table 4.1. The plan does not
envisage other capital investments during the period. The proposed Bank loan
will be onlent by GOI to NJPC (para 3.16) to finance about 21% of the
investment program and the balance of 79% will be financed from additional
GOI/GOHP loans to NJPC (27%), equity contributions from GOI (39%) and GOHP
(13%). Internal resources during FY89-FY97 will be sufficient to cover debt-
service obligations and working capital requirements only. The low internal
resources is a result of the plant operating for only about three months
after project commissioning in FY97 (para 4.05). The financing plan is
consistent with the cost sharing and ownership arrangements agreed by GOI and
GOHP under the Memorandum and Articles of Association establishing the
corporation. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by
GOI.
Table 4.1: NJPC's FINANCING PLAN FY89-97
Source of Funds                          Rs Million          &
Internal Sources                              471             -
Less:  Debt-Service                           377             -
Increase in Working Capital             83
Net Internal Sources                           11
Bank Loan onlent to NJPC                    5,811           21
GOI/GOHP Loans                              7,503           27
GOI Equity                                 10,824            39
GOHP Equity                                 3.607            13
Total                                    27,756          100
Application of Funds
Nathpa Jhakri Power Plant                  20,708            75
Interest During Construction                6,970           25
Feasibility Studies Other Projects             78             -
Total                                    27,756          100
NJPC Financial Proiections
4.03     NJPC's projected financial statements for FY1989 through FY2001
with related assumptions are presented in Annex 4.1. Table 4.2 provides a
summary of projected financial performance and key indicators for each
fiscal year from project commizsioning in FY1997 until FY2001.



-39-
Table 4.2:  NJpC'S KgY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(FY999 TO FY2001)
FY Ending March 31                                              MOOO  FY2001
Electricity Generation (GWh)        1,000     4,300   7,050   7,050   7,050
Electricity Sales (GWh)g/             990     4,257   6,9-0   6,980   6,980
Average Tariff (P/kWh)                 68        68       68      68      68
Operating Revenues (Rs Million)       592     2,547   4,177   4,177   4,177
Operating Expenses (Rs Million)       225       929      959     992   1,027
Operating Income (Rs Million)         368     1,619   3,217   3,184   3,150
Operating Ratio (%)                    38        36       23      24      25
Debt Service Coverage (times)         1.3       1.2      1.7     1.8     1.9
Current Ratio                         0.5       0.6     0.8      0.8     0.8
Debt as percentage of
Debt plus Equity (%)                  48        46      44       39      35
Rate of Return (%)
Historical Costs Lb                    3         6       12      12      12
Revalued Asset Base  J/                3         6       11      10      10
i  GOHP will receive 12% free power (para 4.05).
Net income before interest on average net fixed assets historically valued.
Net income before interest on average revalued net fixed aseets.
4.04     NJPC's future earnings forecast assumes that the Corporation will
supply bulk power at 400 kV to state electricity boards and other major
purchasers of power in the Northern Region at prices which will cover
NJPC's operating and maintenance costs, administration expenses, employees'
remuneration, depreciation, interest and provide a reasonable earned
surplus. To meet this objective GOI, GOHP and NJPC have agreed that NJPC
will take appropriate actions, including tariff adjustments, to enable NJPC
to achieve in FY98 an annual rate of return before interest of not less
than 6% on the original cost of its average net fixed assets in service,
and thereafter at a rate of not less than 12% (para 6.02(f)). The rate of
12% is considered appropriate because it is consistent with the estimated
average cost of capital to NJPC and as demonstrated in the financial
projections, it will allow NJPC to cover its operational expenses, and debt
service. The lower return of 6% in FY98 is justified because plant output
during the first year following initial commissioning will be about 60% of
the estimated annual average due to forced outages of units normally needed
for adjustments during this year.
4.05     An average annual electricity generation has been estimated at
7,050 GWh of which about one percent will be consumed at the station. In
addition, twelve percent of the balance will be available to GOHP at no
charge as per the power sharing arrangement outlined in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association establishing NJPC (para 2.02). Based on these
figures NJPC's annual electricity sales are expected to amount to 6,980
GWh. The forecast average bulk supply tariff of 68 paise per kWh will be



-40-
the minimum level necessary to earn the 12% rate of return after FY98.
During the period FY1997 to FY2001, NJPC's forecast debt to debt plus
equity ratio average about 42% and its projected debt-service coverage
ratio averages about 1.6. Its strong financial position is due mainly to
high earnings, low operating expenses and steady debt-service obligations.
An annual expenditure of Rs 13 million is projected for feasibility study
work during FY91 to FY96, which may result in the development of other
hydro projects by NJPC in the Sutlej river basin. In view of the
uncertainty pertaining to NJPC's future capital investmercs and their
potential impact upon the implementation or operation co the proposed
project, NJPC has agreed: (i) to provide to the Bank, for its review, an
updated five-year investment program, along with its sources of finarcing,
each year from FY91 onwards (para 6.02(g)); and (ii) not to undertake
additional investments which are nct included in the agreed ins tment plan
and which in the Bank's opinion will be detrimental to NJPC's f.1tancial
viability (para 6.02(g)). During the initial commissioning year of FY97, a
funding shortfall of about Rs 1,119 million is anticipated. The shortfall
is a result of the plant operating for only about three months during the
financial year. GOI/GOHP will finance the shortfall with bridge funds
which NJPC will repay to GOI/GOHP in FY98 and FY99 from its internal
resources. NJPC's earnings in FY98 and FY99 will be sufficient to pay for
these bridge funds. NJPC's surplus cash generation for the period FY97 to
FY2001 will amount to Rs 3,491 million which will be available for
investment in new projects. Dividends on equity are not anticipaced and it
is assumed that investment and depreciation allowances permitted by GOI in
connection with NJPC's investment program are expected to exceed any taX
liabilities which may arise.
NJPC Bulk Supply Tariffs
4.06     NJPC will be responsible for commercial operation of the power
station after project commissioning in FY97 and will enter into bulk supply
contracts with SEBs and other major purchasers of power in the Northern
Region states. The contracts will reflect an appropriate pricing
methodology which takes into account economic efficiency criteria, peak and
off-peak generation costs, the availability of seasonal energy and the
financial viability of NJPC. NJPC has agreed to carry out, by December 31,
1990, on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 3.7), a study
to establish the price of electricity to be sold by NJPC. NJPC will also
furnish to the Bank a detalled report of the findings of the study for
Bank's comment. In additi6n, NJPC agreed that it will establish bulk
supply contracts based on the findings of the study with beneficiary SEB's
and any other major purchaser of power from NJPC by March 31, 1994 (para
6.02(h)). NJPG will require all purchasers of power to maintain an
irrevocable letter of credit in favor of NJPC. Such letter of credit
should cover at least the equivalent of one month average consumption
estimated for the following financial year.



-41-
B. Himachal pradesh State Electricity Board
Introduction
4.07     HPSEB's financial performance during the period FY83 to FY87 are
difficult to analyze because of the inconsistent treatment of rural
electrification subsidy, depreciation, other revenues and expenses (para
4.08). For instance, GOHP subsidies for compensating the operating cost of
rural electrification were recorded in some years (FY83 and FY87) as
operating revenues even though they were not collected, while in other
years the subsidies were not recorded.  On the operating expense side,
during FY83 to FY85, depreciation was not recorded (para 2.19 and 2.21).
Throughout the period, various revenues, interest charges and expenses were
incorrectly recorded.V/  Overall, HPSEB has generally earned sufficient
revenues to cover operating expenses. However it has not been able to meet
all interest expenses or make a contribution towards financing part of its
Investment program. This unsatisfactory financial performance has resulted
mainly from GOHP's policy to provide only loan funds to HPSEB, while
simultaneously restricting the amounts of increases in HPSEB's tariff
rates. Under the proposed Project, HPSEB with the support of GOHP will
implement a financial action plan which will enable the utility to achieve
satisfactory financial performance and make a reasonable contribution to
its proposed investment program. In addition, HPSEB will introduce, with
the assistance of consultants, improvements in its financial management and
organization to increase its overall operational efficiency and to ensure
that its financial information is accurately captured in its future
accounts.
Past and Present Financial Performance
4.08     HPSEB's key financial indicators for FY83 to FY87 are shown in
Table 4.3 and its detailed financial statements (income statement, sources
and application of funds statement and balance sheet) are contained in
Annex 4.2.
iJ In FY86, a prior period adjustment of Rs 149 million was made to
rectify the inconsistent recording of past revenues and expenses. In
FY87, a debit adjustment of Rs 219 million was made to correct for the
past errors in recording depreciation (Rs 110 million), cost of
purchased power (Rs 70 million) and miscellaneous expenditures.



-42-
Table 4.3:  HPSEB'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR FY83-87
Fiscal Year End March 31            E8        FY84    F8        FY86   FY87
Electricity Sales (GWh)              687       804      687      787    883
Average Tariff (P/kWh)              34.6      35.2    37.7      45.6   58.9
Operating Revenues (Rs Million)      299       322      287      407    662
Operating Expenses (Rs Million)      215       250      279      343    466
Operating Income (Rs Million)         83        72        8       64    196
Interest (Rs Million)                 52        63       79      296    385
Net Income (Rs Million)               31         9      -71      -83   -408
Accumulated Loss (Rs Million)        -56        -47    -118     -201   -610
Operating Ratio (%)                   72        78       97       84     70
Debt as % of Debt and Equity A/       98        97       99      101    110
Debt Service Coverage (times)        0.9       0.6      0.0      0.6    0.2
Current Ratio                        1.0       0.9     0.9       0.8    0.9
Rate of Return (%)  /                 -         -      neg.      neg.   neg.
Contii. to Investment (%)            neg.      neg.    neg.      neg.   neg.
A/ Accumulated losses are treated as negative equity.
k/ As per GOI definition: Net Income after interest as a percentage of net
fixed historically valued asset base at the beginning of the fiscal year.
4.09     As shown in the above table, HPSEB's electricity sales increased
from 687 GWh in FY83 to 804 GWh in FY84 before declining to 687 GWh in FY85
and then rising during the next two years to 883 GWh in FY87. The reduced
sales volume in FY85 and FY86 as .ompared to FY84, resulted from drought
conditions in Himachal Pradesh which adversely affected HPSEB's hydro
electric generation. Consequently, revenues declined from Rs 322 million
in FY84 to Rs 287 million in FY85 and a net income loss of Rs 71 million
resulted. In 1985 and 1986, GOHP permitted tariff increases, and HPSEB's
average revenue per kWh increased from 37.7 paise per kWh in FY85 to 58.9
in FY87, helping it to earn total revenues of Rs 662 million and achieve an
operating surplus of Rs 196 million. Although HPSEB's operating revenues
exceeded operating expenses during FY83 through FY87, they were
insufficient to cover all interest expenses. As a result, at the end of
FY87, HPSEB's accumulated losses totalled Rs 610 million (US$45.9 million).
Its performance indicators, (i.e. rate of return, contribution to
investments, debt-equity ratio, debt service coverage, etc.) for the past
five year period under review, have been unsatisfactory. Except for FY85
and FY86, HPSEB's operating ratio was between 70% and 78% which is
satisfactory.
4.10     HPSEB's poor financial performance has been the result of a
variety of factors, some of which have been beyond its control. As with
other state Governments and SEBs in India, it has been the practice of GOHP
to provide loan funds but not any equity funds to HPSEB. About 63% of
HPSEB's funding has been from GOHP and the balance of loan capital was



-43-
obtained from various Central Government organizations which are regular
sources of funding for SEBs. The relatively high debt service load
associated with HPSEB's all-debt capital structure has implied the need for
timely tariff adjustments. However, GOHP has constrained the amount of
increases in HPSEB's electricity tariffs, such that the utility has been
able to cover operpting expenses and to pay debt service on loans from its
other funding sources different from GOHP (Life Insurance Corporation,
Rural Electrification Corporation, etc.). However, in an attempt to move
towards compliance with the minimum 3% rate of return requirement
stipulated for all SEBs by GOI, GOHP has approved significant adjustments
in HPSEB's tariff rates during FY86 and FY87. HPSEB's average revenue per
kWh sold, increased by 56% from 37.7 paise in FY85 to 58.9 paise in FY87.
4.11     Two other factors which contributed to HPSEB's past poor financial
performance were relatively high administrative and establishment expenses
and high system losses. In FY87, HPSEB employed about 18,000 people
excluding construction staff, which is excessive for a utility with 134 MW
installed capacity and 700,000 consumers. A hiring freeze is now in effect
and HPSEB plans to make better use of existing staff. With tba help of
consultants to be engaged under the Utility Management Study being financed
under the Project, HPSEB will prepare a training program and staffing plan
which will cover its staff requirements in the next decade (para 2.11).
Although HPSEB's system losses are lower in comparison to most SEBs in
India, there is further scope for reduction from the FY87 level of 22%. It
is expected that system losses will be reduced to 16% by FY96 as a result
of the transmission system improvements underway and planned under the
Project.
HPSEB - Proposed Financial Recovery Program
4.12     HPSEB'S loans and accrued interest, owed to GOHP, have accumulated
over the last decade. Their liquidation from internal cash generation,
will not be possible without unrealistically high tariff increases, yet
their continuation in HPSEB's accounts will distort its future operating
results. Consequently, an appropriate financial plan for HPSEB will free
the utility from past problems by immediate measures to produce a solvent,
acceptable balance sheet and will include longer term measures to improve
future financial performance. GOHP recognizes the need for such a plan if
HPSEB is to operate in conformance with accepted commercial principles,
achieve a satisfactory rate of return and make a reasonable contribution
towards the financing of future investments. Accordingly, GOHP has agreed
to cause HPSEB to implement a financial recovery program to restore HPSEB's
financial viability, including the measures listed below (para 6.03(a)).
(a) Write-off the interest on GOHP's loans outstanding as of March 31,
1988 by March 31, 1989. The interest to be written-off is
estimated at Rs 1,439 million.
(b) Treat GOHP's loans outstanding as of March 31, 1988 as perpetual
loans bearing a 10.5% p.a. interest rate. New GORP's loans from
FY89 to FY95 will also be perpetual with the same interest rate.



-44-
(c) From FY96 onwards, new GOHP's loans will have a repayment period
of 15 years, including a 3 year grace period and an interest rate
of 10.5% p.a.
(d) GOHP will promptly pay the rural electrification (R.E.) subsidies
for the period of FY90 to FY95. On the other hand, HPSEB will not
request payment from GOHP for R.E. subsidies accumulated (about Rs
736 million) up to March 31, 1988.
(e) Implement tariff increases as necessary to ensure as a minimum the
following annual rate of returns after interest payments of
(computed in accordance to the amended Electricity (Supply) Act):
2.9% in FY90, 3.8% in FY91, 4.3% in FY92, 4.7% in FY93, 4.9% in
FY94 and FY95, and 7.0% in FY96 and thereafter.
(f) Maintain its receivables at the following levels of electricity
sales: 6 months in FY89, 3 months in FY90, 2 months in FY91 and
thereafter.
(g) GOHP will provide additional loans to HPSEB to fund the financing
gap in FY89 and FY90.
(h) HPSEB will furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each year, an
updated five year investment plan and a report of its forecast
operational and financial performance for the ensuing five
financial years specifying the actions that it will take to
achieve the annual rate of returns (para 4.12(e)).
4.13     HPSEB's projected financial statements for FY88 through FY96 are
presented in Annex 4.2, together with assumptions for the financial
projections which reflect the implementation of the financial recovery
measures. Table 4.4 summarizes the projected financial performance ard the
key indicators for each year during the period.



-45-
Table 4.4:  HPSEB's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS FOR FY88-96
Fiscal Year Ending
March 31               E       F92Y1  F92Z  FY93   F94F                   FY96
Electricity Sales (GWH)       908  1109   1761  1885  2088  2385  2606  2933  3797
Operating Revenues*           690   715   1344  1696  1907  2335  2787  3334  4404
Operating Expenses*           571   589    907   981  1135  1400  1617  1778  2217
Operating Income*             119   125    437   714   772   936  1169  1555  2188
Net Incomc* &/              -30  -179     95   136   184   259   291   349   990
Average Tariff (P/kWh)       60.9  62.1   67.0  80.5  82.0  89.0  98.0 105.0 115.0
Operating Ratio (8)            83    82     67    58    60    60    58    53    50
Debt as % of Debt & Equity   108    97      96    95    94    92    91    90    86
Debt Service Coverage
(times)                   0.3   1.4    0.7   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.3   1.3   1.7
Current Ratio                 0.8   1.2    1.2   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.3   1.0
Rate of Return
As per GOI (%) /           neg   neg    2.9   3.8   4.3   4.7   4.9   4.9   7.0
As per Bank
Guidelines, (8) s/       11.8   5.6   12.1  16.5  14.1  14.2  15.1  12.8  13.3
Self Financing Ratio (%)      neg   neg    neg     9      5     7     8    10    26
*   Rs Million
AL  In FY89, a prior period adjustment of Rs 703 million was not included in
the computation of net income since it was the result of offsetting the
R.E. subsidy of Rs 736 million and Accrued Interest of Rs 1,439 million
as part of the financial recovery program (para 4.12 a and d).
Consequently, it was not related to FY89 operational performance.
h/ Net income as a percentage of net fixed assets (historically valued) at
the beginning of the fiscal year.
_/  Operating income as a percentage of average revalued asset base.
4.14     HPSEB's electricity sales are projected to grow at an average
annual rate of about 19% per annum from FY88 through FY96 as compared to an
average annual rate of about 8% during the preceeding five years. The
anticipated higher sales growth is explained by the addition of recently
commissiGned generating capacity and expected station additions during the
forecast period including; Giri/Binwa (60 MW in FY87), Bhaba (120 MW) in
FY88 and FY91, Andhra (17 MW) in FY88, Kholdam (800 MW) and Karcham
(600 MW) in FY96 (Annex 4.2). The cost of power purchases, a major expense
item, will va' y on an annual basis during the forecast period, according to
the timing of expected additions to HPSEB's generation capacity and HPSEB's
seasonal requirements. The Board is expected to continue its practice of
selling hydropower to neighboring states, particularly to Punjab and Uttar
Pradesh, during months with greater rainfall and to purchase thermal power
during the dry winter months.
4.15     Implementation of the financial measures described in para 4.12
will enable HPSEB to transform itself from _n organization suffering



-46-
chronic losses to a financially viable utility. HPSEB's average revenue
per kWh is projected to increase from 67.0 paise in FY90 to about 115.0
paise in FY96 representing an average annual increase of over 9% which is a
3% real increase assuming inflation to be at 6%. This will provide HPSEB
with a rate of return of 2.9% in FY90 increasing to 7.0% in FY96 (para
4.12e). The high rate of return in FY96 is the result of increased
electricity sales due to the commissioning of the Kholdam and Karcham
projects. It is expected that HPSEB's financial performance after FY96
will improve further with the commissioning of the proposed Nathpa Jhakri
project in FY97. HPSEB's, achievement in FY96 of a 7% rate of return,
after interest on net fixed histcrical valued asset, is equivalent to
earning a rate of return before interest of 13.3%, on average net fixed
assets in operation based on a proforma revaluation (Bank's Guidelines).
4.16     HPSEB's large investment program, throughout the forecast period,
will cause an increase in gross fixed assets from Rs 1600 million at the
end of FY88 to Rs 16,640 million at the end of FY96. Most of the
investment during the nine year period is for additional generation
capacity. The bulk of expenditures in the first half of the period relate
to new generation schemes already under implementation ixicluding Bhaba (120
MW) and Andhrat (17 MW). In the period from FY92 through FY96 substantial
investment is anticipated in connection with generation schemes which will
be undertaken with external aid (i.e. Larji-126 MW and Uhl III-70 MW) or
with funds allocated by GOI (i.e. Dhanwari Sunra - 60 MW). Based on a
three year moving average of capital expenditure, HPSEB is expected to
self-finance reasonable proportion of its new investments throughout the
period; about 9% in FY91, 5% in FY92, 7% in FY93, 8% in FY94, 10% in FY95
and 26% in FY96. The relatively low self-financing levels in the initial
years are acceptable in view of the relatively small size of its commercial
operations vis-a-vis expected capital expenditures. When the Kholdam and
Karcham projects are commissioned in FY96, HPCEB's self-financing ratio of
26% is respectable. As noted in para 4.15, commissionring of the proposed
Nathpa Jhakri project in FY97 will further inprove HPSEB's finances.
4.17      HPSEB's debt as a percentage of de5t plus equity will improve
from about 108% in FY88 to 86% in FY96. The high ratio is a reflection of
GOHP policy of not providing equity to HPSEB. Despite the high debt ratio,
its debt-service coverage of 1.2 beginning in FY91 and increasing to 1.7 in
FY96 is satisfactory. The satisfactory debt-service coverage ratios are
due to the fact that GOHP's loans outstanding as of March 31, 1988 and new
GOHP's loan from FY89 to FY95 are perpetual, i.e. no principal repayment
(para 4.12(b)), thereby reducing the debt-service burden of HPSEB during
the period.
Financing Plan
4.18     HPSEB'S financing plan for the period FY88-FY96 is presented in
Table 4.4. HPSEB will finance about 5% of its investment program
(including interest during construction) from internal cash generation and
10% fr3m miscellaneous internal sources. The proposed Bank loan will
finance about 3% and the balance will be financed from GOHP's loans to
HPSEB (70%) and other loan sources (12%).



-47-
Tablq 4.4:  HPSEB'S FINANCING PLAN FY8i-96
(Rs Million)
Proposed Project                                 861           5%
Other Capital Expenditures                    15.415          95
Total                                         16,276         100%
Sources of Finance:
Internal Generation                            9,374
Less: Change in Working Capital                1,532
Debt Service                       7,102
Net Internal Generation                          740           5%
Miscellaneous Sources p/                       1,583          10%
Loans:
IBRD                                           572           3%
GOHP                                        11,426          70%
Others_k/  1.955                              12%
TOTAL                                     16,276         100%
A/  Staff Superannuation Fund, Consumers Contribution, Security Deposits and
prior period adjustment as a result of incorporating the financial
recovery program (para 4.12 a and d).
_/ Life Insurance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation, Bonds,
Industrial Der!elopment Bank of India, etc.
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Least Cost and Demand Analyses
5.01     The principal components of the proposed Project are the 1,500 MW
Nathpa Jhakri hydropower station on the Sutlej River and 500 km of 132 kV
transmission lines and reinforcement of the transmission system in Himachal
Prpdcsh. With regard to the power station, CEA has carried out studies to
determine the optimum installed capacity for Nathpa Jhakri based on
hydrological records of the Sutlej, system load curves and the costs of
alternative sources and forms of generation in the Northern Region. These
studies indicate that the optimum installed cap.scity for Nathpa Jhakri is
1,500 MW. In addition, CEA has carried out system planning studies for the
Northern Region which indicate that the earliest feasible implementation of
a 1,500 MW station at Nathpa Jhakri forms an integral part of the regional
least-cost development plan. The assumptions used in CEA's capacity
optimization and system planning studies, as well as the results of the
studies, have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
5.02     The demand projections which underlie CEA's capacity optimization
and system planning studies are summarized in Annex 5.1. These projections



-48-
are formulated by CEA from disaggregated analyses of patterns and trends of
electricity consumption by each main consumer group. Compared with growth
in peak load in the Northern Region averaging 13.2% p.a. over 1981/82 to
1987/88, CEA's projections of growth in peak demand through 1996/97 of 10.9%
p.a. appear reasonable. This is particularly so when considering that over
the period 1981/82 to 1987/88, peak load was heavily supply constrained,
suggesting that peak demand was growing at least as quickly as the load
actually met. CEA's projections of energy demand also seem reasonable.
Compared with annual growth averaging 12% (again, heavily constrained) CEA
projects energy demand will grow at 11% p.a. through 1996/97. CEA's
projections of power and energy demands are consistent with India's present
elasticity of electricity consumption to economic growth of approximately
1.5 and expected economic growth of 6% p.a. For Nathpa Jhakri not to be
required at its time of commissioning, the elasticity of power demand to
economic growth would have to fall to under 1.0. This would represent a
significant change in the present electricity intensity of India's economic
growth ar.d therefore is considered very unlikely. Hence there is little
risk that generation from Nathpa Jhakri will not be required when the
station is commissioned.
5.03     With regard to the transmission component of the Project, a range
of technicsl options were examined by CEA. The Bank is satisfied that the
voltage levels and the configurations wnich have been adopted are optimal
and constitute part of the least-cost regional development program.
Internal Economic Rate of Return of Program Analysis
5.04     Benefits derived from the components in the proposed Project cannot
easily be separated from those of other investments in generation,
transmission and distribution in the Northern Region. Therefore, having
established that the proposed project is an integral part of the least cost
expansion plan for the Northern Region, it is appropriate to focus cost-
benefit analysis primarily on the Northern Region investment program as a
whole in order to examine whether the expansion envisaged is desirable. For
this purpose, a "time-slice" of the Northirn Region's investment program
between the financial years 1988/89 and 1996/97 has been analyzed. Capital
costs of the investment program (covering generation, transmission and
distribution) together with incremental operating and fuel costb are given
in Annex 5.2, Table 1.
5.05     Expected benefits of the investment program relate mainly to the
incremental consumption which the program will make possible. The program
may also lead to benefits in terms of a reduction in the cost of meeting
existing demand, particularly through fuel savings at existing thermal power
stations.  However, India's persistent shortages of electricity (Annex 1.1)
are such that by far the greater part of the generation from plants in the
investment program will lead to increased sales. Fuel savings therefore
have not been taken into account in estimating benefits from the investment
program. In addition, the program will also provide benefits to existing
electricity consumers through reducing the frequency of supply interruptions
and facilitating more stable voltage levels and supply frequencies.



-49-
5.06     A minimum measure of program benefits can be derived from
incremental iales revenues. Considering only these benefits, the estimated
rate of return on the 1988/89 to 1996/97 time-slice of the Northern Region
investment program is 6.8 (Annex 5.2, para 8). However, as retail tariffs
in the Northern Region are lower than marginal costs, particularly for
agricultural consumers (Annex 5.2, Table 2), this estimate is more a
reflection of the level of tariffs than of the economic merit of the
investment program.l/ In reality, in addition to benefits as reflected
through incremental sales revenues, there will be consumer surplus
associated with the incremental consumption: consumers' reactions to the
severe shortages of power experienced for the present (and expected for the
foreseeable future) suggest that consumers' willingness-to-pay substantially
exceeds present tariffs levels (Annex 5.2, para 12). In order to estimate a
realistic economic rate of return, a portion of the consumers' surplus
likely to be associated with the incremental consumption that the program
will facilitate has been added to estimates of benefits as expressed through
incremental sales revenue.
5.07     Annex 5.2 summarizes how rates of consumer surplus have been
estimated for each main category of electricity consumer. Rates of surplus
have assumed to be expressed through the cheapest alternative to public
electricity supply. For most consumer categories this is the cost of
private generation, though for agricultural consumers it is the additional
cost of replacing electric irrigation pumps with diesel pumpsets. Many
consumers are presently observed to find these options economic when public
supply is not available. However, it would not be reasonable to assume that
all consumers would be willing to pay the higher costs associated with
private generation or diesel pumping. So as not to over-estimate consumer
surplus, the analysis has assumed that for each category of consumers the
surplus attributable to incremental sales accrues at half the difference
between the costs of private generation (and diesel pumping) and consumers'
prevailing tariff. This is a conservative assumption. It implies that at
present levels of demand, consumers have a price elasticity of (minus)
unity. In practice, price elasticities at low levels of electricity
consumption (as in India) are usually much lower than unity (in the range
-0.1 to -0.5), implying that consumers are relatively insensitive to price
and (hence) that more than half would be prepared to pay the costs of
private supply.  The assumption that half of consumers would be willing to
pay the higher costs of private supply suggests an average rate of consumer
surplus of Rs 0.39/kWh (Annex 5.2, Table 5) and benefits including
incremental revenues at the rate of Rs 0.98/kWh (Annex 5.2, para 12).
5.08     Under the assumptions set out above, the economic rate of return of
the 1988/89 to 1996/97 time-slice of the Northern Region development program
is 14.3% (Annex 5.2 para 13). With a 12% discount rate, the corresponding
NPV is Rs 15,048 million, equivalent to US$1,131 million. This central
estimate of the program return shows that the 1988/89 to 1996/97 is expected
to be economic, particularly as benefits to existing consumers on imputed
2/ The average tariff level in the Northern Region is Rs 0.74/kWh, whereas
the average incremental cost of supply (a measure of marginal cost) is
about Rs 1.2/kWh (Annex 5.2, paras 7 and 8).



-50-
security and quality of supplies have not been taken into account.
Sensitivity analysis suggests the investment program as presently configured
could absorb combined adverse changes in costs and benefits of approximately
15% and remain economic (in the sense of earning a rate of return of at
least 12%). Adverse changes in costs and benefits amounting to more than
15% would necessitate some reconfiguration of the investment program to
ensure it remained economic. The project analysis which follows provides a
good measures of confidence that the Nathpa Jhakri jroject would not be a
candidate for deferment in this eventuality. Sensitivity analyses also
suggest that the Northern Region program as presently specified could
withstand about 1 1/2 year delay in implementation or a 2 year delay in
benefits and remain economic. In practice, delays in implementation usually
are associated with cost increases. The sensitivity analysis suggests the
program could withstand a delay in implementation of approximately one year
and a 10% increase in costs before some reconfiguring of the program would
be required.
Project Analysis
5.09     When prices are substantially below marginal cost, it does not
follow automatically that the selection of a project into a least-cost
expansion program means that the project in question is economic, even if
the program as a whole is shown to be economic. This is because demand, and
hence the investment program, can be inflated through the low prices. In
such cases, it is important to supplement the program analysis with an
analysis of the project in question. Confining the analysis to the Nathpa
Jhakri power station and associated investments in transmission and
distribution, the estimated rate of return is 17.0% (Annex 5.2, para 18).
The estimated NPV (with a 12% discount rate) Is Rs 7,399 million, equivalent
to US$556 million). Generation from Nathpa Jhakri, net of technical losses,
will provide supplies to about 1.3 million new domestic consumers, 132,000
new commercial consumers, 75,500 new industrial consumers and about 110,000
new agricultural consumers. Sensitivity analyses suggest that the project
could absorb combined adverse changes in costs and benefits of up to 35% and
remain economic. Variations this large are considered to be highly
unlikely, thereby affording a good measure of confidernce that the project
will prove economic. Similarly, the sensitivity analyses suggest the
project could absorb an implementation delay of up to 2 1/2 years and remain
economic. Such lengthy delays are considered to be very unlikely and even
allowing for associated cost increases, this again provides a good measure
of confidence that the project will remain economic. The fact that the rate
of return of the Nathpa Jhakri project is estimated to be higher and more
robust than the rate of return of the Northern Region program as a whole
also provides important assurance that Nathpa Jhakri would not be a
preferred candidate for deferment in the event that some reconfiguration of
the Northern Region program became desirable.
5.10     It also must be remembered that against each of these adverse
sensitivities that have been explored are set against the equal likelihoods
of more favorable outcomes for both the Northern Region program as a whole
and for Nathpa Jhakri.



-51-
VI. AGREM S AND RE             ION
6.01     GOI agreed to:
(a) establish a training unit in CEA by June 30, 1989, and appoint a
co-ordinator to implement the program (para 3.10); and
(b) furnish to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1989, a satisfactory
timetable of key actions, including full assessment of the
environmental impact, for the preparation and implementation of the
Northern Region Transmission Project and implement the project in
accordance with the agreed timetable (para 3.19).
6.02     NJPC agreed to:
(a) furnish the Bank with a staffing plan, no later than June 30, 1989,
including qualifications and timetable for appointments for key
positions (para 2.04);
(b) maintain during the construction period, a Panel of Experts (POE).
The roster and the qualifications of the candidates for POE will be
furnished to the Bank for comments no later than June 30, 1989
(para 3.07);
(c) retain consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank to assist the Corporation in the preparation of the detailed
design and the supervision of the construction of the power
station. NJPC will issue a letter of intent to the selected
consultants no later than June 30, 1989, and will sign a contract
with the selected consultant within 60 days of the letter of intent
(para 3.08);
(d) provide to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1989, details of the
project design and supervision unit, which will comprise CEA's,
CWC's, GSI's and HPSEB's staff and consultants (para 3.08);
(e)  provide the Bank with audited financial statements within seven
months of the end of the fiscal year to which they relate
(para 2.07);
(f) achieve an annual rate of return before interest of not less than
6% in FY98 and 12% thereafter on the original cost of its average
net fixed assets in service (para 4.04);
(g) provide to the Bank for its review an updated five year investment
program, each year from FY91 onwards and not to undertake
additional investments which are not included in the agreed
investment plan, which in the Bank's opinion will be detrimental to
NJPC's financial viability (para 4.05).



-52-
(h)  carry out, by December 31, 1990, a study to establish the price for
electricity to be sold by NJPC; and establish bulk supply contracts
with SE3s and any other major purchasers of power from the Project
no later than March 31, 1994. NJPC will also require all
purchasers of power to maintain irrevocable letters of credit in
favor of NJPC covering the estimated one month's average
consumption (para 4.06);
(i)  provide the Bank an opportunity to comment on any substantial
changes in NJPC's organization structure or in the organization of
the field project implementation unit before they are implemented
(para 3.10); and
(j)  furnish the Bank, one year before the expected completion of the
dam, with a proposal for periodic inspection of the safety and
operating conditions of the Nathpa Jhakri scheme (para 3.20).
6.03     GOHP agreed to cause HPSEB to:
(a)  implement the proposed financial recovery program on a timely basis
(para 4.12);
(b)  furnish for Bank's comment, before December 31, 1989, the
recommendations arising from the Utility Management Study and a
timetable for implementing the recommendations; and to implement
the recommendations in accordance with the timetable agreed with
the Bank (para 2.10);
(c)  furnish to the Bank, before December 31, 1989, a five-year Staffing
Plan and Training Program for HPSEB and to implement the program in
accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank (para 2.11);
(d)  furnish to the Bank its audited financial statements within nine
months of the end of the financial year to which they relate
(para 2.23); and
(e)  submit applications for Forest Clearances in respect of the
transmission lines and associated substations, financed under the
Project, before June 30, 1989 (para 3.13).
6.04     GOHP further agreed to on-lend the proceeds of the loan to HPSEB at
the standard interest rate it charges for loans to its corporations and
agencies but not less than 10.58 p.a. with repayment period of twenty years,
including a grace period of five years (para 3.16).
6.05     The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and NJPC
satisfactory to the Bank, specifying an interest rate of not less than 14.5%
per annum and repayment of 20 years including a 5 year grace period, will be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 3.16).
6.06     Receipt of forest clearance for the transmission lines is a
condition of disbursement for the expenditures related to the transmission
system (para 3.13).



-53-
Re,cossendation
6.07     On the basis of the project justification and the agreements
reached during negotiations, the proposed Project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$485 million equivalent.



INDtA
NATHPA JKAKRI POER PROJECT
.... ...................
National Electricity SLpty and De and from Public Utilities
....................................... .................................................................
Actual                      Provisioral                                           Estim8ted
............................... .................................  . ................ ................................ ................... .......................................  ,..,,,,,,,., ,,,, , ................. 
Dse.rlptim                     116a   1902/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  198{/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  199697M
~~~~~~... .._._._ .........  .... ..   .... ...   .......  .......  ......   .......  .... ...... ....  ...... ., ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, .......   ......  .......  .......  ......._
Ita2 leM  CitV   MWe            32,347   35,363   39,339   42,585   46,769   49,258   53,905   S9,091   64,886   70,424   75.573   83,834   93,743  103,916                       n.s.      nba.
Paut *mild5ility W             20.121   21.527   23,07    24,971   26,m           29,574   31,22S   34,767   37,674   42,18    44,984   49.394   54,919   61,418                 n.s.       n.e.
VW& LaS  an)                    20.121   21,527*  23,O7   24,971-  26,7m     29.574^  39,660   43,308   47,014   50,945   55,800   60,832   66,705   72,711    79,249   86,437
fuipila  (ficit)                  -         -          -                   -          -      (8,435)  (8,541)  (9,340)  (8,757) (10,816) (11,438) (11,786) (11,293)    n.e.                  n.a.
ErOmw'Wmil  tity (ow)  113,827  121,233  130.045  145,296  156,75  174,794  189,417  211.582  234,188  217,224  291,729  315,545  345,281  381,856                               n.a.       n.a.
EON"r t       i t r   S(Gb)   113t,82?  121,233* 130,045' 145,296' 156.5m  174,794' 210,492  229,662  249.059  269,40  295,043  322,311  352,837  364,764  419,450  457,367
sarpt$    Deicits (m-)                            -              -         -                (21.075) (18,080) (14,871)   1,764   (3,314)  (6,766)  (7,566)  (2,906)    n.s.                  n.a.
' Sestrictad
n.a. not waiftmW
Souwe:  lhirtewrSb Electric Pouer Survey of India, Decenber, 1987, CEA.
VI-



INDIA
MATHPA JHUKRI POWER PROJECT
Forecasts of Regional Power Ded   in India, 1987/88 - 1996/97
..............................................................
CExcluding Captive Generating Plant)
. . ....... ......  ...... .......
1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97
........ ..... ... ..................    ...........    ...... ....... ...........    .......  ..........    .......  ..........  ... .......    .......
Energy
gorthern                          59,721     65.525      72,080     78,821     86,493     95f004    104,336    114,786    125,861    136,028
Western                           62,082      67,177     72,474     7B,105     65,475    93,015    101,283    109,038    118,177    128,094
Southern                          55,57B     60,443      65,322     70,319     76,736     83,355     91,158     99,164    107.713    117,015
Eastern                           30.705     33,795      36.083     38,740     42,420    46.497    51,036        56,097    61,290      66.995
North-Eastern                      2,363      2.67        3,041      3,406      3,839      4,346      4,915       5,552      6,260      7.060
Andmen and Nicobar Islands            36          44         51         60         71         83         97         114        134        158
Lakshadweep                            6           7          8          8          9         11          12         13         1S         17
.......    .......    .......    .......    .......    .......    .......    .......    .......    .......
Atl India (TOTAL)                210,491    229,663    249,059    269,459    275,043    322.311    352,837   384,764    419,450    457,367
Peak Load
Northerm                          11.991      13,161     14.474     15,805     17,375     19,089     20,966      23,068     25,270     27,722
Western                           11,060      11,981     12,956     13,994     15,289     16,538     16,059      19,416    21.040      22,804
Southern                          10,377      11,282     12,189     13,1n      14,426     15,647      17,183     18,688     20,280     22,019
Eastern                            5,640       6,215      6,641      7,131      7,765      8,489      9, 290     10,177     11,129     12,165
North-Eastern                        579         653        735        821        920      1,040      1,173       1322       1,484      1.672
Andmwn and Nicobar Islands             12         14         16         19         22         26         30         36          42         51
Lakshadweep                            2           2          2          3          3          3          3          4           4          5
.............. ..................................    .......    -------... ....... ..........    ....... ..........    .......    -------... .......
ALL India (TOTAL)                 39,661      43,308     47,013     50,945     55,800     60,832     64,704     72,711      79,249    86,438
Source: Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, December, 1987.



-56-
ANNEX 1.3
RAThPA JABZRI POWFR -PRMJCT
PrvIouD Loan. and Credlt, to 'n"'aO Power ISetor tJune 30. 1988)
Approval    Closing   Loan      AMount
3rYer  ZIfLLan                                     No.      We pa Lo  .to         Amount    Disbuysed   Status
India      First DVC - Dokaro - Konar                  23      4/50        2f56     18.50        16.72   Complete
Indio      Second DVC - Maithoan - Panchot             72      l153        6/58     19.50        10.50   Complete
Tate       Trombay Powvr                              106     11/54        9/66     16.20        13.85   Complete
Tate       Second Trembay                             164      5/57        9166      9.80         9.66   Cozplete
Indie      Thir8 DVC - Durgapur                       203      7/58       6165      25.00       22.00   Complete
InUdi      Kona Power                                 223      4/59        4165     25.00        18.70   Complete
India      Power Transmlssion                         416      6165      12170      70.00       50.00   Complete
India      Second lothagudes Power                    417      6165      12170      14.00       13.97   Complete
Tata       Third Trombay Thermal Power               1549      4J78      12/84    105.00       105.00   Complete
India      Ramgiumdam Thermal Pover (C)              1648      1179       6/87      50.00       45.15   Complete
India      Parekka Thermal Power (C)                 1887      6180      12/88      25.00        0.00
Indl-      Second Raeseundma Thermal Power (C)       2076     12/81       6188    300.00       142.13
India      Third Rural ElectrLflcatlon               2165      6182       6188    304.50       239.12
Idia       Upper Indravati Bydro                    2278       5183       6191    156.40         0.39
India      Central Power Transmislon (C)            2283      5183       3189    250.70         4.96
Indl,      Indira Sarovar                            2416      5184        t/92    157.40        4.35
Indio      Second Farakka Thermal Power (C)          2442      6/84      12191    300.80         6.72
Tate       Fourth Trombay Thermal                    2452      6/84        6/90    135.40       52.50
India      Chandrapur Thermal Power                  2544      5/85      12192    300.00        26.47
India      RLhnd Power TransmLssLon (C)             2555       5185      12/89    250.00        24.38
India      Kerala State Powr                        2582       6185       9191    176.00         0.03
India      Combined Cycle (C)                       2674       4186      12191    485.00         0.46
Indla      Karnataka Power                          2827       6/87      12/95    330.00
Indio      Rational Capital Power Supply (C)        2844       6187       6/95    483.00
Indli     TSlcher Thermal Power (C)                 2845       6187       3/96    375.00
India      Second Karnataka Power                   2938       5/88      12196    260.00
IndLa      Utter Pradesh Power                      2957       6188      12196    350 00
Total                                                                4 994.20
(Total Loans for RTPC Ieojects)                                    (2,511.50)
IDA CO dtt
Indla      Fourth DVC - Durgapur                       19      2162      12/69      21.88       19.88   Complete
India      Second  oyna Pover                         24       8162       9170      21.10       21.10   Complete
India      Kothkaudes Power                            37      5163      12168      24.13       24.13   Complete
India      Seas Equlpment                              89      6166       6/74      26.59       26.32   Complete
Indio      Second Power TransmiLsLon                 242       4/71       3177      75.00       72.93   Complete
Indl-      Third Power Trans-ission                   377      3/73       9178      85.00       85.00   Complete
Indla      Rural Electrification                      572      7175      12180      57.00       57.00   Complete
Indli      Fourth Power Transmlssion                  604      1176       6/83    150.00       149.87   Comp)ete
India      SLngraull Thermal Power (C)                685      3/77       6184    150.00       150.00   Complete
it         Korba Thermal  Povwr (C)                   793      4178       3/86    200.00       199.92   Complete
India      Ramagundam Thermal Power (C*)             874       1/79       6187    200.00       200.00   Complete
India      Second Rural Electrificatlon               911      5/79       3/84    175.00       171.74   Complete
India      Second Singrauli Thermal Power (*)        1027      5/80       31/8    300.00       280.01
India      Farekka Thermal Power (C)                 1053      6180      12188    225.00       213.87
India      Second Korb  Thermal Power (C)            1172      7181      12/89    400.00       244.86
India      Upper ladravati Hydro                    1356       5/83       6191    170.00        66.06
India      Indira Sarovar                           SF020      5/84       6/92    129.80         0.56
Inda       Indira  Sarowar                           1613      5/86       6/92      13.20          -
Total                                                                2,423.70
(Total Credita for NTPC Projects)                                  (1.475.00)
(A) 8TPC Projects



NAIWA INANRI P003 PROJECT
N"thos Jhakrl tcwrat). Ormnizti.. Chart
BOAR OF DIRECTORS
NAM   DIRECTfOR
liomcra .1                                                  DI ECTOR                              DIRECTO      I
HUMAN RESBURE                       FDINWE A ACCSMS
low  mumm                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FDLWSc  ACCIT
DM"XE DMc                                                       *                              IN|I,IBIE& 
CORPORATE OFFICE
GAL  MMANUR             COWMIN SECRETAY
OUEF EMMiM  (CNMCTS                   tPERSONEL                   FOR
PROCRET ETC) am  CI I               nEItAL ADL NIST1ATIO    LEOAL MATIUS OF
MElET.                                                   IMT  l  CORPORATIN
- -
flaUE EM5 PF
CUIEF    OEi_                                                                                               I
dWLM. ASSUM
Lx*er
Morrw



NATHPA  "JOR POWER PROJEC
H3ahd  Praded S    9Sctilcly Ucxo OganIaton Chct as d 3/31/1967
Dei~~~s    POWcq         SVP 1hoo                 Get                  Ch                               (CPaNhIh        (h)SoIiI'
~ri                                                ,*i                                                                   CEc.    ,     . , s
2E~O**    ~ EODUg~    P h  e SS (&)  ss   Si 2fEV                                                                O
60.4                                                         .  wi CId       3 h .         SE    .,          SE cSS 
I           g            90 a PCE9h9I.I I                                             UIC
1gX{f    QI 1        ISEoora1                            i         OWc        SE                                               SE SE t 0   o4 ||
0aowE.   .6~~5~    0~ WliI                         |              OsH SO      ..fw                              , S**t        SE (C (C        S   H<E (C )CSC
CU.. .C..rAW    ..C  .    . .                                     .tgmk                                                     ... .. .
Cktbwom     Sa'duCNCkjdIO                   Cku.                                                                          Co-              9**sft tSnPt'O
owtot          St V.ftm        Sti  C'WCSEO 00Cbf* u0PuEfY
Ma,St         l                 ehy ,          (  9H*i"  S     (E )  31 a                                   CE sOp)                                                         5 
S Etcgeq            SE |*                u S                   -                                                 SE (Cv )c4       SE (Cv) h
cbehR MCI.               CtE  Fb4           PO(E)41Cnuc
.
Raw c          SEo              m w                                                                           SE (C   C          | S hnc
SE Po-                                                                              D=~~~__CEiD
11=0     C C                                                                   I    SE (CO) oact*
Din POD           CS s1       C EeiIWI|                                                         CE% s|
(C>al i
r    "       0               5   SE I&C 
II    ACIIc) I               I       VW
nCE mo m
1   }~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



-59-
ANNEX 2.3
INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
HIMACHAL PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Average Tariff by Consumer Category J/
Percent of
Category                                     Units Sold           Paise/kWh
Domestic                                        15.5                 47.0
Commercial                                       6.6                 82.0
Agriculture and Irrigation                       2.6                 30.0
Industry                                        46.8                 63.0
Public Lighting                                  0.3                101.0
Sale Outside State                              23.0                 62.6
Supplies in Bulk to Others                       5.3                 48.0
/ As of FY87, figures includes electricity duty and other state levies.



-60-
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. Nathba Jhakri Hydroelectric Station
Location
1.       The Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric Station would be located in the
State of Himachal Pradesh in Northern India. It is one of a series of
identified hydropower schemes in the Sutlej river which is a tributary of
the Indus river. The Sutlej originates in the Tibetan Plateau. The intake
of the proposed project wculd be located about 180 km north-east of Shimla,
the State capital, on national highway NH 22. In the project area the
highway runs parallel to the Sutlej at less than 1 km from the river. The
river bed in the project area is located at the bottom of a 300 m deep and
narrow canyon confined within almost vertical or very steep clifts. The
proposed development utilizes a 470 m fall in a distance of about 28 km
between the villages of Nathpa and Jhakri. The scheme runs generally
parallel to NH 22 at short distances of it, which facilitates access to
construction faces. The elevation of the crest of the intake dam is
1,493 m above the sea level. The river bed ascends steeply upstream of the
proposed dam site and reaches 3,000 m altitude within 80 km and over
4,500 m altitude at the Tibetan Plateau (400 km upstream of Nathpa). The
tail waters of the Bhaba Hydroelectric project, now in its final
construction stages and located immediately upstream of Nathpa Jhakri
control the maximum water level at the intake of the proposed Nathpa Jhakri
scheme.
Geology
2.       The geological exploration carried thus far for this project
includes: (i) mapping and analysis of major regional geological features;
(ii) detailed surface mapping of the project area; (iii) execution and
logging of about 4,000 m of boreholes; (iv) construction of exploration
adits into desilting and power caverns; and, (v) exploration adits into the
headrace tunnel of four key locations. Additional confirmatory work is
being carried out as part of the preparation of detailed designs. Rock
properties (strength, moduli, chemical composition, etc.) have been
determined and additional tests are under way to refine data for detailed
designs. The project works would be located in metamorphic rocks in the
Great Himalayas. The predominant rocks are gneisses of holocene period and
schists of the pre-cambriam period. In some places these rocks are covered
by recent slide debris and old compacted slide debris. The general strike
direction is E-W to WNW-ESE and the dip ranging between 350 to 700 towards
northern to NNE direction. The rocks are folded and foliated. The



-61-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 5
principal set of joints runs parallel to the foliation. There are also
horizontal, cross and oblige joints. Because of the foliation of the rock,
the topography in the project area is characterized by steep slopes with
sharp edges. Most of the joint systems are tight. Therefore the rock mass
should be competent for foundation of structures and for tunnel
construction. The permeability of the rock is generally low except for a
limited number of open discontinuities and shear zones.  Two important
features of this geological formation are:  (i) the relief of natural rock
stresses that has occurred over the years, resulting in eventual open
joints (now filled with cohesive materials) parallel to the steep slopes
and (ii) the anisontropic behavior of the rock under mechanical stress due
to the foliation and schistocity.  These aspects as well as the
mineralogical composition of the rocks (relevant to long-term behavior and
resistance to weathering after excavation) have been taken into
consideration in the preliminary engineering and would be refined for the
preparation of the detailed designs. According to GSI's findings,
sufficient materials of adequate quality for manufacturing of concrete are
available within reasonable hauling distance from the works.
PhysiograRhy and Hydrology
3.       The catchment area of the Sutlej river at Nathpa (the location of
the intake) is about 50,000 km2 of which about 37,000 km2 are in the
Tibetan Plateau and the balance, 13,000 km2, in the Indian Himalayan
slopes. The snow line in this region is at about 3,000 m above the mean sea
level. The Tibetan Plateau in this region is located at about 4,570 m of
altitude. There is absolutely no vegetation in this region and no
rainiall. The plateau has been formed by successive deposits of boulders,
gravel, clay and mud. The deposits lie in nearly horizontal beds. The
outlej, fed basically by the glaciers, has been able to cut a channel about
900 m deep through the plateau.  Because of lack of rainfall the banks
stand un-eroded vertically.  The channels of the several tributaries in
this region present similar features with deep, narrow vertical-walled
canyons.  During snowmelting periods deep channels are formed in the
plateau. Downstream of the Tibetan plateau to Nathpa the river is confined
by high hills (1,500 m) within a 300 m deep canyon. Rainfall in this
section, averaging 780 mm per annum, is mostly concentrated between June
and September and is determined by the onset of the south-west monsoon.
The peak flows of the river occur during this period, while the lean period
occurs between October and April. Between April and June the river is fed
almost exclusively by snowmelt flows from the glaciers.  The 90% dependable
annual flow at Nathpa is 7,690 Mm3 and the average flow is 9,560 Mm3.  The
power station would be able to use 85% of the firm flow in a lean year and
76% of the flow in an average year. The balance would be used for flushing
sediments deposited in the forebay pond or would be spilled during monsoon
season. Hydrological analysis for this project have been based on a 56
year data record.
Sediments
4.       The Sutlej river carries a considerable volume of sediments
particularly during the high-flow season. Sediment control measures



-62-
ANNEX 3.1-
Page 3 of 5
upstream of Nathpa Jhakri such as soil management and afforestation offer
only limited possibilities because of the physiography of the region, the
soil morphology and the impossibility to introduce vegetation at high
altit'de. Therefore, the project has provided for: (i) periodic flushing
of the forebay pond; (ii) retention of sediments above 0.15 to 0.2 mm in
the underground desilting basins; and (iii) selection and specification of
units to minimize equipment wear and off-time for maintenance. In
addition, the project authorities would monitor during the early years of
operation the performance of the sediments handling provisions. In case of
unsatisfactory performance, they would construct in the future a barrage,
upstream of the Nathpa dam, for compensatory storage (about 1.5 Mm3). The
barrage's sill would be at river bed level and would be equipped with gates
about 15 m high. The gates would be open during monsoon and would regulate
the flow during the low flow season when water is almost sediment-free.
The storage would make up for any loss of live storage of Nathpa (4.7 Mm3)
between flushing operations. These measures have been incorporated in the
light of actual experiences in similar projects in the Himalayan region in
India, and the expected behavior of the proposed structures and operating
procedures is being confirmed through hydraulic model studies. No
substantial design changes are expected as a consequence of the modeling
studies. CEA has carried out sensitivity analyses to determine the effects
of different levels of forebay pond siltation on the operation of the
plant. The analyses show that, during the critical period, there would be
no significant effect on the plant operation with levels of siltation up to
35% of the forebay live capacity. The detailed design of the flushing
system is being prepared to limit sediment built-up to no more than 30% of
the live capacity. The topography (steep and narrow) of the forebay basin
is suited for effective sediment flushing during high flow periods.
Powerplant Layoutl
5.       The diversion dam would be of the gravity type, 60.5 m high, in
concrete.  The length of the dam at the top is 155 m   It would be equipped
with five sluice gates of 6.5 x 9.5 m. Emergency gates would be also
provided for. The crest of the dam would be at elevation 1,493 and the
crest of the sluice gates is at elevation 1,458. The dam is provided with
a two-bay (7.5 m wide each) ogee-type spillway. The crest of the spillway
is at elevation 1,488. The dam has a flip bucket energy disipation system.
The surplussing structures are designed for the probable maximum flood of
5,400 m3/s. The sluice ducts would be protected with steel plate against
erosion by sediments. The total pondage 4.7 Mm3.
6.       The power intakes would be located on the right side of the
reservoir about 200 m upstream of the dam axis. There would be four
intakes each of 6 m wide by 7 m high. The invert of the inlets would be at
elevation 1,460. The inlets would be provided with a 10 m diameter semi-
circular cages with a semidomed cage cover. The cages would slide on
rails laid on the hill slopes, operated by hoisting arrangements located on
a platform on the hill side above the high flood level. The flow would be
controlled by sliding gates operated through gate shafts. Four short
intake tunnels would connect the intakes to the desilting chamoers.
1J/ All dimensions are approximate and subject to change as detailed design
proceeds.



-63-                        AM    3.1
Page 4 of 5
7.       There would be four desilting caverns 15 m wide x 15 m high and
120 long with semicircular roof. Each cavern would have three collecting
hoppers at the bottom. Two chambers would operate as a unit that can be
isolated at the intakes and at the entrance of the headrace tunnel for
servicing. Sediments from each unit would be flushed back to the river
through three tunnels of 1.75 m in diameter, on for two hoppers, controlled
by gates at the outlet end. The tunnel taking off the first upstream pair
of hoppers, which would convey the coarser sediments, would be steel-lined.
The desilting chambers would connect with the headrace tunnel through a 6 m
diameter tunnel provided with sliding gates.
8.       The headrace tunnel is 10.15 m in diameter and 31.4 km in length
and runs generally parallel to the Sutlej river. The tunnel would be
concrete lined. However, if excavation with tunnel boring machine proves
more economical (both conventional and tunnel boring machine excavation can
be quoted by the bidders) or if the rock is of suitable quality, the lining
could be eliminated in some sections of the tunnel, or replaced by
reinforced gunite. About 6 km downstream of the intake works, the waters
of the Sholding river (about 6 m3/s), a tributary of the Sutlej, are
injected through a vertical shaft into the headrace tunnel. The tunnel
ends at a surge tank of the restricted orifice type. The surge tank is
25 m in diameter and 130 m deep, and is provided with two expansion
galleries 150 n long, 15 m wide and 15 m high each with semicircular roof.
9.       The penstock starts horizontally at the surge tank.  At about
200 m downstream it trifurcates into 6 m diameter branches, each provided
with a butterfly type valve. Immediately after the valves the pressure
shafts descend at about 450 to the power house area through a distance of
650 m. At this point each pressure shaft bifurcates into horizontal
tunnels of 4 m in diameter and 60 m long leading to the powerhouse. The
pressure shafts would have concrete-embeded steel lining (steel lining
thickness varying from 12 mm to 45 mm).
10.      The powerhouse complex would be constituted by three parallel
caverns:  (i) the valves cavern (8 m wide, 17 m high and 115 m long) where
the spherical type valves would be located; (ii) the generators cavern (20
m wide, 40 m high, 170 m long), located 30 m downstream of the valves
cavern, would house 6 turbo generating units of 250 MW each (equipped with
Pelton tvpe turbines) and ancillary equipment; and (iii) the transformers
and switchyard cavern (17 m wide, 24 m high, 170 m long) located about 50 m
downstream of the generators cavern; this caverr. would provide space for
19 x 95 MVA single phase transformers (15/400-kV), 4 x 105-NVA interlinking
transformers (400/220-kV) and, the SF6 (400-kV, 220-kV) insulated
switchgear. Power would be evacuated to the surface through two cables
shafts of 3 m diameter each. Access to the powerhouse would be through a
ttunnel 8 m wide and about 10 m high.
11.      The tail race tunnel discharges back into the Sutlej river.  It is
300 m long, 10.15 m wide and 15 m high with semicircular roof section.



-64-                         MM  3
Page 5 of 5
B. Epansion and Reinforcement of Transmission System in Himachal Pradesh
12.      This component would include the construction of the following
132-kV transmission lines and substations in the state of Himachal Pradesh
(Map No. IBRD 20515).
Transmission Lines
From               To                   No. of Circuits        LengJth I)
Kumhar             Solan                      1                       22
Dehra              kangra                     1                       20
Bassi              Palampur                   1                       36
Jassore            Kandross                   1                       34
Larji              Sarabhai                   1                       22
Dehra              Amb                        1                       30
Amb                Una                        1                       36
Gagal              Kumhar                     1                       45
Giri               Dosarka                    1                       30
Giri               Solan                      1                       66
Dehra              Hamirpur                   2                       40
Larji              Hamirpur                   2                      115
Total                                           496
Substations
Name of Substation            Voltage                        Capacity
Palampur                      132/33 kV                       2x16 MVA
33/11 kV                       2x4 MVA
Kandrari                      132/33 kV                         16 MVA
132/11 kV                         16 MVA
Sarabhai                      132/33 kV                       2x16 MVA
Amb                           132/33 kV                       2x16 MVA
Dosaska                       132/33 kV                       2x16 MVA
Hamirpur                         16 MVA                         16 MVI
Total                        184 MVA
13.      The load dispatch facility and communication system for HPSEB
operations would be finally selected and designed with the assistance of
consultants during project implementation. For project appraisal purposes
the mission, after review of preliminary studies prepared by HPSEB staff,
assumed that HPSEB's minimum needs may be satisfied with a central load
Aispatch center including mimic display, and telemetering of generating
plants. No remote control was contemplated. The communication system
would be power line carrier and radio or satellite communications
(depending upon cost and accessibility) with all generating plants and
major substations and regional offices.



!NDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PHYSICAL WORKS
A.ATlHPA JHIAKR PON ERPT                                .                - P  N T                                            *               } F
Ivweo nr O_vewelon n     F                          *
- Cala    tAm Mia
- EreA_n td                                             -S-*In of G-le1
hExculado n      o                                                    -         - 3
* Exa1Iu                                                                                             -- 
-Cielnsous
- EOamelon
Peistodi                                                                     --      -- 
PeratdUnk
*Eavtonm
-CMomeosus
S* aipI   Erecion of Unit--s------
Lk*2
th's
B. TRANSMISSION LINS FOR HPSEB
Pudmhseof Towers                              1-I
wonductor &Acose
Twuab,muihs                                         1         I ::                                    I ::
Ereon sneif Tssftln                              I               I                        -------~ 
1988        1989         1990       1991         1992        1993         1994        1995        1998
pouer        - -                                      trcion                                   - W  Ad cne n*
i) For detadled prourment sd*sdies and No of conact see Amnex 3.5



INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals lttludikf Cwitincie
(IME   uilli.)
U/  39/90  90m91  91/92  9n3   n9n4   94/95  95/96 Total
1. IlUESTIENT COSTS
A. 6IERI
LAND                                                                              .               _      -       -      -       -    -   135.3
SITE PREPARATION AND FACILITIES                                                703.6  214.6  113.7       -      -                        036.9
Sub-Total CoRm                                                                   844.4  214.6  113.7        -      -       -       -    - Il72.7
1. CIVIL MORES
1 PM STATION
ODII INTAKE AID DESILTING FACILITIES                                            -  314.3  447.0  711.6  503.4  400.4         -    - 2.376,8
A  RACE OE   D SWliE TANK                                                       -  809.6  863.5 1#221.9 10296.5 1,031.4  729.1 336*5  6v338.6
PRESSIK  SW Te PE  HOUSEe AlD TAIL RACE TOL                                     -  243.3  346.0  550.9  3349.   206.6  109.6    - l,46O.0
S-Total PM  STATION                                                               - 14367.3 I,66.6 2,484.4 2sI19.5 1368.5  838.7 336.5 10,561.4
2. EXPANSION AND RElFOWIIII Of TRAlIISISSION IN HP
ERECTION OF LDINE AiD VORIS FOR SUITATION TARDS                                 -    264   12.1   71.0   21.4        -       -    -   107.0
Sub-Total EKPASION AN REtIIEEIEIIT OF TAISIMISSION IN W                            -    2.4   12.1   71,0   21.4        -       -    -   107.0
S. RESETTLEIIENT Of POPULATION
OtS FOR HOUSING ROS  UTILITIES ETC                                              -      -    1.1    0.9    06    0.3          -           2.9
Sub-Total RESETTLEICNT OF    LATION                                               -       -    1.1    0.9    0.6    0.3               -     2.9
4. ENVIRUOT PROTECTION PLAN
RS FOR AFORESTATION. SOIL PROTECTION, ETC                                                    2.2    1.7    1*2    0.6        -    -      5.8
S-totl ENIUIIE  MEtTIOI PLAN                                                       -         -         2.2    I.?    1.2    0.6  -    -     5|
5. TRAINING PROMRM AND ASISTACE FOR CUE
------- --                                              - -----n                   -  -    -   
Cb-ol TuhNIN P W  AdS ASSISTAINE FOR CUE                                           -      -       -    1C9    4.0    42    6.7  4.7    21.5
Sub-tob1 tlUII V    1 1                                                              145T7 1fOR2.0 Cllt.9 2443- -nn  -e      -      -3   -#hHL1
S-Ttabl CIViL MS- 1,369.7 1,67.0 2,559.9 2,216.7 1643.6  345.4 391.2 10,63.



Totals Ineluiling C(mtiaJiutw
(RMM   illiam)
SUPPLY U  AETRIALS AUI IWNACTURINBs S9Lt  AND EICT1ON OF EOUINM                     8/99 C99o  90/    91/92  92/m3   394   94/95  95/96  Total
1. Pan  STATION
RIADI  GATES. 90155 SIBIB OAES AND STO-LOSS                                                               -   30.7   48.7   51.7 365    167.
ISCEaLMEIS METAL M  M   ACCES SRIES                             ,                  -       -  -          1.4    3.1    6.5    5.2       -     16.2
IWRVAC11IINS AND ER1ECTIO0 If PISTOCK                                              -   15.6   66,2   70.3  142.9  164.7  139.7 37.0   6U6.3
31lTEIFL7 VALES                                                                    -       -    10.7       -   S9.?   44.5    6.7    -    1211.
ELECTRICAL 04ESNEA  IMEILLINS CRME AlB OTtER CRKES                                 -       -    2.9   24.3    3.2         -       -    -      30.4
TUIROIBERAIINS UNITS  OS INLET VALES                                               -  487.8        - 1,106.1 1,760.7 1if6U79   330.2 350.0 5.902*7
IOLATE1 PMS 331                                                                    - M47           -    15.0   23.9   25.4    9.0       -    Oft0
440 O  A S    220 N OIL FlUE6 CALES                                                -    10.9       -   24.7   39.4   41.8   14.6        -   131.6
MIN STEP - UP 7lRMiFIERS AND MNCILIESf                                             -   29.6        -   6*65   105.7  112.1   19.3  21.0   354.7
GAS INSUTlEA 90IfCl6A5                                                             -       -    4.1        -  216.9  172.5    6.0  64*7   563.2
MXILImiT TRNIFUffEIS                                                               -       -       -    0.6    4.9    0.*6        -    -       6.1
aUYsA   CONTROL NOWSP 11IMNB                                                       -       -       -    6.7   56.4    7.5         -    -    70.6
mOleI All CONTROL CAILES                                                           -       -       -      .6    6*.7    7.1    1.9    -    17.4
AUXIUMT SERVICES AM  RICUCELANEU  EWIPIEN                                          -       -       -    13*6   57.6   61.1   16*2    -    143.5
0'
Sub-Total MDER STATION                                                                -  550.5   127.9 1,330.8 2512.0 2,540.4  W56.0 509.2 8*246.9
2. EXPANSION MS REINFICElET OF TRAIUISSION IN HP
TOMEBS AND ACCESSORIES                                                             -    3.8    4.0   33.6  197.8          -       -    -   239*2
ACSm CONIUCTOR                                                                     -     4'I   19.4   20.6        -       -       -    -    44.1
EARMNu                                                                             -     0.1    0.4    3.0        -       -       -    -       3.6
IWULATORMS       - NRN                                                             -    1.5    7.1   40.2         -       -       -    -    43.3
1531108. EQUIPMEIN TS PAs   COU EUIPN                                              -    5.8   17.8   64.9         -       -       -    -    98.5
1RANUIMERS (INN I MUX) CIS. Plt                                                    -       -    17.0   51.3       -       -       -    -    63.4
1ICN01K# AND CONTROL BRLAVS AND LT PANELS                                          -       -   14.3   40*5        -       -       -    -    54,8
IS0O1.1S                                                                          -       -    2.0    5.2        -       -       -    -      7.2
LITIN ANRESIBS                                                                     -       -    2.0    5.t        -       -       -    -       7.8
K EOUI1MENT                                                                        -       -    1.4    3.5        -       -       -    -       4.8
lOISW  TOLS T-    4.5    6.8   14.5                                                                               -       -       -    -    25.3
STKUCIIDES AND *U N *ARS                                                                   -     1.9    9.8       -       -       -    -    11.6 
PM          CONTROL CAAES                                                          -       -    2.3    7.5        -       -       -    -       9.e     *>
5mb-Total EXPANSION AND REIIfORCENENN   OF TRASMISSION IN HP                          -    19.7   96.5  300.4  197*8         -       -    -   614.4       0



Totift Including Contindmits
(RtNPEE Million)
88/89 89/90  90/91   91/92   92/93  93/94   94/95  95/96  Total
3* COffNUICATIONS AND LOAD DISPATCH FACILITIES FOR WHSE                             =r   ::               22: : :          ??: rr-:r     -r: 
SUPPLV AND ERECTION OF EOUIPM)IT AND IATERIALS                                       -    3*9   12.3    13.0       9.2     4.9       -     -      43.2
Sub-Total CSUiHICAnTONS Ad LOAD DISPATCH FACILITIES FOR WMSE                   .              3.9    12.3    13.0    9.2      4,9                    43.2
I. INSTITUTI. MCNUELOPIENT AND TRAININ6
tHUININ6 AID COIUTERS NATERIALS AD EIIPfENT FOR NPSED                                -     1.5    1.6      1.7     1.9    2.0        -     -       8.8
TRAINING AMD COMMITERS MTERIALS AND EIUIPIENT FOR CUC                                -    6.7      3.6     3.8     4.0       -                    U 16.1
Sub-Total INSTITUTIOL DtUELOPNENT AND TRAINING                                                8 6.2    5.2    5.5     5.9     2.0       -     -      26.6
5th-Total NMPI OF NIEITALS AO NWIACTURING, SUPPLY AND ERECTION OF EQUIPNENT                -  582.3  241.68 14649. 2e724.9 2t567,2  65.0 509.2  8t931.3
to TRAINING Me CONSULTIN6 SERICES
POOU  STATION RESIGN AN  IWWENIATION                                                  9.1     9.8     7.5    8.0    8.4       9.0    57   6.0       63.5
INSTITUTIOLW. IEWMMLET Ct PISED                                                         -     3.6     3.9     4.1     4.4     4.6       -     -      20.6
TNURAIIN  MUOIRM M8 ASSISTANCE SERVICES FOR CC                                          -     7.3    7.6      8.3     8.6     9.3       -     -      41.4    0l
Sbt-TOtl TRAINING AS CObSiRTING SERVICES                                                 9*1    20*7   19.1   20.3   21.6   22.9         5.7   6.0    125.5
E. CUiE AtTIONB IS OMTEE EVMES FOR ESEKTTELENT  BS   RI T MTECTION                         -       -    5.3      7.6     4.0    2.1        -      -     19.0
F. EIMIIUIB AND AOUINIS1RATION                                                          27.6    13.9    60.0   132.1   153.4   127.6    44.1  27.0    63.6
Total IWEVST1ENT  COSTS                                                                  861.1 2W2S1.3 2,112.0 44369.6 5120.5 44363.5 1,551,2 933.5 21,562.7
Total "ROmCT COSTS                                                                         661.1 2425163 2,112*0 4,369.6 5e120.5 4.365.S ItS51.2 933.5 21 s82.7
Fubrarv 1 1966 12:18
OQX 
mr'
0.



YATNP JIWI WffMflETRIC PSIJET
mmm imm w.vT omm
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u Nc D_t
(391 llillienl                              lSll iliem)
2 Totl                                     Toal
tForein  Iag                           I Fonim   a
Local  fortin  Totl  Ehct           Costs  Local Foreion Totl  fxad          Costs
A. 10 11111T.o
UN                                                                                   116          -    11t.6         -       I   9.0       -    9.0          _ 
OITE      ATIOU  M  FWILITIT                                                         M9.          -   193.5          -      6   67.2       -   07.2          -       a
Sub-Total 61IBM.                                   '                                  1013.3           113.3           -      7   76.2            76h2                 7
3. CML MM
1. MO PATIN
Mt INTMl 3  IESJLTIS FfIIlE1                                                      517.2   951.5  146U.7         65      10  33.9   71.5  110.4           65      10    a
NEAD La  UK  AO IkE  111                                                        1M332.1  2,60.3  3t7M2.9          5     2   100.2  164.3  264.4         As       27
FElI  SWt1  FMO           t MI 1 * IL TAX  PM                                     400.3   736.5  1,13.9          65      a   30.1   55.4   61.5          Is       I
mbtoal m    StAt3I1                                                                 2249.6  4.136,6  6936.4        65      45  1.1  311.2  416.3           U6       45
2. MAIWI  NS  EINF1TEITF TWTMISIU IN UP
BETIINOFLII   AS   N1113 I IF SUSOtATIIN *A                                        79.2        -    79.2          -       I   *.0             6.0         -       I
SmtotaE011SUM SIN          ICEll   IT OF TSlISIISII INH                               79.2        -    ?;.2         -       I   6.0        -    6.0          - 
3. IESETILElt WF WMATIIN
MM M    Holm  RoN  UTILIIIES. ETC                                                   2.1        -      2.1        -       0    0.2       -    0.2
S9b-Totl EUTTLEND F Of tMllIO1                                                         2.1        -     2.1         -       0   0.2        -    0.2          -       0
4. ElNtI T PISTEtTIIN KM
Mf  FMR MfSIATIUR  SlIL SOTECIt [IC                                                 4.3        -      4.3        -       0   0.3        -    0.3          -       0
Smlo.l EWIRHI  MP tECIOI P1LA                                                          4.3        -      4.3        -       0   0.3        -    0.3          -       0      x
5. TRAININ WAA 961N NI  ASSISTADEE FOR Clt
0*
rmU         CENTER LIE U AD SKECIALIZE  MMS  SPACE                                 13.9        -     13.9        -       0    1.0       -     1.0         -       0   _
Sib-Total TRAININS 49O31 AND ASSISTASCE FOR CUC                                       13.9        -     13.9        -       0    1.0       -     1.0         -       0
Sub-Total CIVIL USfS                                                                 2W09.1  4138.8  WP4M.0           64      46  176.6  311.2   47.8          64      46



(RUPEE Nillian)                             (05$ 111k.
3 Total                                 3  tal
2 for1in gm                               Foiun  am
C. SU11Y OF RATERIALS NM NAACTRING. SUPPLY AND ERECTION O EOUIPHENT                      Local  Forfiln  Total  Exchi   Costs  Local Foreign Total  Exchans    CoS
'------'-       --- -- ---- - -- -------------------'------'--''----                              s:a1W                             2   333        23    3         338
1. PER STATION
RADIAL GATESt HOISTS. SLIDING SATES AND STOP-LOGS                                   96.3    1006   106.9          10       1    7.2    0.0    0.0         10        I
IISCELLMEOUS METAL WORW AND ACCESSORIES                               .              9.6      1.1    10.7         10      0    0.7    0.1    0.0           10      0
1WRIACTURINS ND ERECTION OF PENSTOCK                                               295.1    142.4   430.7         34       3  21.4    10.    32.4         34        3
UTTERFLY VVLVES                                                                     5044    24.8    01.2          30       1   4.4      1.9    6.3        30        1
ELECTRICAL OVERIEAD TRAVELLING t(RUE AN O1HE CRAMES                                 20.2      2.2    22.4         10       0    1.5    0.2      I.         tO       0
IIR1OGEIERATING WITS AND INEIT ULUES                                             1941*.5 2.094.  4,036.1          52      29  146.0  157.5   303.5         52      29
ISOLATESDESS DI*TS                                                                  47.3      8.3    55.6         15       0    3.6    0*.    4.2          15      0
40    AND 220 KY OL FILLED CALES                                                    43.4    46.?    90.3          52       1   3.3    3*5    6.1           52       1
NAIN STEP - UP TRANSFORfERS AN  ACILARIES                                          221.5    24.4   245*.          10       2   1h.7     1.3   10.5         1        2
GAS ISULTED SWTCRIIEAR                                                             179,3    193.5   372.6         52       3   13.5   14.5    2.0          52       3
ABXILIARY TRAWNSFORERS                                   .                           3.9      0.4      4.3        10       0    0*3    0*0    0.3          10       0
RELAYS. CONTROL  bOARDS. NEIERINS                                                   41U.      7.3     4.l         15       0    3.1    0*5      3.7        15       I
POUER AND CONTROL CAILES                                                            10.4      1.2     113        10       0    0.0    0*1    0.9          10       0
IUXIRIARY SERVICES AND NISCELLANEOUS EGUIPIENT                                      90.5    10.0   100.5          10       1   66       0.7    7*6         10 1a
Sub-Total PMER STATION                                                              39049A4  2tM50*7 So.6.           46      40  229.3  193.3  422.6          46      40
2. EWNSION AND REIfORCIEM NT OF IRANSNISSION IN HP
TOUERS  ND ACCESSORIES                                                             152*3    166    169.1          10       1   11.5    1.3    12.7         10       1
ACSR CONNETOR                                                                       30.5      3.4    33.i         10       0    2*3    0.3    2*5          10       0
EARTIEIRE                                                                            2.       0.3      2.)        10       0    0.2    0.0       *.2       10       0
INSUA T'J ANMD ilRE                                                                 32,9      3*6    36.5          0       0    2.5    013      27         10       0
tERFIHNL EGUIPNENT AND PLCC EDUIPNWT                                                60.1      6.6    66.6         10       0    4.5    0,5      5.0        10       0
TRANSFORIERS (NAIN I AUIX) CTS. PTS                                                 46.2      5.1   5si3          10       0    3.5    0.4    3.9          10       0
SWITOIGEW AND CONTROL RELAYS AND LT PANELS                                          371       4.1    41.2         10       0    2.3    0.3    3.1          10       0
ISOLATORS                                                                            4.9      0.5      5.5        10       0    0.4    0.0    0.4          10       0
LIGHTING AMRRSTERS                                                                   5.3      0.6      5.9        10       0    0.4     0.0    0.4         10       0
K EOUIPIENT                                                                          3.3      0.4      3.6        10       0   0.2    0.0       0.3        10       0
HoRSHOP TOOLS                                                                       17.3      2.0    19.3         10       0    1.3    0.1      1.5        1O       0
STRUCTiUS MOD iS  SRs                                                                7.3      0.9      8.7        10       0    0.6    0*1      0.7        10       0
POER AND CONTROL CABLES                                                              6.6      0.7      7.4        10       0    0.5     0.1    0.6         10       0
Sub-Total EXPANSION AND REINFORCENENT OF TRANSNISSIN IN 1H                            4.07.3    44.3   452.1         10       3   30.6    3.4   34.0          10       3
PDok
0*
-IA



(MM  Nillin)                              (U f  Ii)
r..i    Total                             21st.!
hI                           I Foasim   i,
2 fordijo kw                                     kwowF
Local  Forein   Total  Exd_e  Costs  Local Forumn Total  Ex          inS   Cots
J. COIIMICATIONS AN LOAD   OITAICH FACILITIES FOR WM                                     ''       i       8
SUPKT AID ERECTION OF EUIPlET AND ATERIALS                                      32.1        -    32.1         -      0   2.4        -    2.4         -      0
SqTotl COIMIICATIONS AN  OA OSATCH FACILITIES FO WWEI                              32*1        -    32*1         -      0            2.4  -    2.4      -      0
4. INSTITUTIO   IELOPNENT AND TRAININ6
TRAININ  ANID COIPTEl rAmTERIMLS MD EOUIPIEIT FOR  iEO                           1.3      5.1     6.4        90      0   0.1    0.4    0.5          0       0
TINING MIM COIflIERS NATERIMS AND ESUIIPNT FOR CI                               2.0    11.0    13.8         90      0   0.2    0.8    1.            0      0
SubTotal INSTITUTIIIL IEWLOPIE  AID TRAINING                                        4.0    16.1    20.2         SO      0   0.3    1.2    1.5          80      0
StA-Totul SlO Y C NATERIMLS MM I'WJACTURING SUPLY AND E*ICTION OF EUMIMET          3492*9  2,631.6 6,124.5        43      43 262.4  197.   460.5          43     43
3. TMAINDIS AID CONSULTING SERVYICES
MU  STATION KESIN AD IIUL TATION                                                      -    42.4    42.4        100      0      -    3.2    3.2        100      0
INSTITUTIIJNM KEVEWI'NI OF NMI                                                      9.7     401    13.?        30       0   0.t    0.3    1.0          30      0
TRAINiNs PRRMI AnS ASSISTANCE SERUlCES FOR CtC                                      5.6    22.0    27.6        30       0   0.4    t.7    2.1          00      0
Su-Tot.l TRAINING AND COWSULTING StlVICES                                             15.3    6.6    63.9         92       1   1.2    5.2    6.3         32       1
E. CIHEMNSATIONS MID OTHtR EXPENSES FOR RESETTLENI" MID NEIROUEWiT MROTEC7IO1         12.6       -    12.6         -       0   1.0       -    1.0         -       0
F. ECIIBNEERlNG AND ADINISTRATONN                                                    419,1        -   419,1        -       3  31.5       -   31.5          -      3
Totul SMElINE COSTS                                                                    7.302.6 6L,39,0 14f141.6       48    100 54.1  514.2 1t063.3        a4    100
fluuical Continmlcigs                                                               1,224.9  1,518,5  2743.4       55      1?  S2.1  114.2  206.3         55    1I
Ptice Continmicies                                                                  2190.7  2,506. 9  4.M6974      53      33   4.1   10.9  235.1 t4 S            19
Tutl *IOUECT COSTS                                                                    10,718.2 10,964.5 21502.7      50    1S3 735.3  739.3 1,474.6         50    139
- - - - -------------              -    -     -- - ------^  -- - - -------------     -  -     e- - - - -
Fdbrua    1o 8 12:24
O -
0.
tv



Coat Estisate by Nature of Eowenditure
(Milllon of Rs)
8xpansion & Rein-    Coinmications and       Institutional T1 rining S
Xatbpa Jhakri foroement of BPSEB  Load Dispatch              Developsent    Assitmace for               Physlcal
PowAR rrenSmru           iL   System  Facilitie. for HPSEB    frHPSEB        CC*n" CBA            1     Centinencies
A. Lead                        1,013.3                                                                                                10.0     101.3
S.  Clvil Works                6,794.9               79.2                                                       13.9      6,488.0     29.7   1,926.5
C. Materials & BquiLpent       5,620.1              452.1               32.1                   6.4              13.8      6,124.5     10.0     612.5
D. Consultancy Services           42.4                                                        13.9             27.6          83.9    20.0       16.8
E. Zngineezing and                                                                                                                                          N
Administration             391.6               26.6                1.0                                                419.1     20.0      83.8
P. Miscellaneous Services         12.9                                                                                  ._  12.8    200          ,.LI
Total BsoelLne Costs    13,475.1             557.9                33.1                  20.2             55.3      14,141.6     19.4   2,743.4
Physical Contingencies         2,669.9               58.4                3.4                   3.4               8.3      2,743.4      -         -
Price Contingencies            4.522.2              144.4                8.1                   5.7             1i7.       4L97.       16.1     754.8
Total Project Costs       20,667.2              760.7               44.6                  29.4              80.9     21,581.7     16.2   3,498.3
Taxes                          2,441.0               73.7                5.2                   1.1               2.2      2,523.2      9.1     229.4
Foreign Exchaluge             10,741.7               62.0                -                    13.2              47.6     10,864.5     18.0   1,958.7
IV 
0.



-73-                                         ANNEX  3.4
Page 1 of 3
RATPA JHAZRX POWU PRCUECT
Procur _ t Arr nsmentr
(Milllon US) 11
ICB                 LCS                 Other            N.A.
Contract Bank       Contract  Bank      Contract  Bank       Contract
Project El--nt                                 Value      Finance   Value     Flnance   Value     Fiance   Value       Total
A. General
Land                                                                                                         10.2   10.2
Site Preparation Facilities                                                            76.8                  76.8
S. civil Works
1. Power Sttl
Dam, Intake and Desllting Facilities       163.9    53.5                                                          49.2
Ee&S Race Tunnel and Surge Tank            431.6   129.5                                                         129.5
Pressure Shaft, Power House, and           127.1    38.1                                                          38.1
Tail Race Tunnel
2. Euansion and Relnforcement
of Transmission in HP
Erectlon of Lines and Works for                                   7.4       3.3                                    7.4
Substation Yards
3. Resettlement ond Ponulation
Works for Housing, Roads, Utilities, etc.                         0.2       0.1                                    0.2
4. Environment Protection Pln
Works for Aforestation, Soil Protectlon, etc.                     0.4       0.2                                   0.4
S. Trinllng Pro-ram an Assiatance for CWC
uo LQhu
Computer Center, Library and Specialized
Work Space                                 1.4      0.6                                                          1.4



ANNEX 3.4
-74-                                         Page 2 of 3
IC_                 LOS 0ther                            N.A
Contract bank       Contract  bank      Contract Sack        Contract
Project Blem_nt                                Value      Pinanc-   Value     *inance   Value     Flnane   Value       Total
C. SUpD1v of Matril.l and Manufacturina. SunuI
and grection of Rlauiinat
1. Power St-tLi
Radial Gates, BaLsts, gliding Gate and
Stop-Log.                                                      11.0                                             11.0
Mtscella.oue Metal tpork and Accessories                          1.1                                              1.1
Manufacturing ad Erectton Penatock          42.6    17.0                                                          42.6
Butt.rfly Valve                              8.2      2.5                                                         8.2
Electrical Overhead Travelling Crane
and Other Cranes                           2.1      1.1                                                         2.1
Turbogeneratlng Units and Inlet Values     398.0   159.2                                                         398.0
Isolated Buss Ducts                          5.4      2.9                                                          5.4
440 kV and 220 kV Oil Filled Cables          8.9      3.6                                                         8.9
Main Step-Up Transformers & Ancillart.s     23.9      12.6                                                       23.9
Ga" Insulat-d Swltchgear                    37.5    15.0                                                         37.5
Auxiliary Transfoxmrs                                             0.4                                              0.4
Relays, Control Boards, Metering                                  4.8                                              4.8
Power and Control Cablea                                          1.2                                              1.2
Auxiliary Services & Miscellaneous Equip.                         9.9                                              9.9
2. Ezuansion and Reinforcement of Transmission
Towers and Accessaories                     16.2    14.3                                                         16.2
ACSR Conductor                               3.1      2.7                                                          3.1
Earthvire                                                         0.3                                              0.3
Insulators and Hardarre                      3.4      3.0                                                         3.4
Terminal Equipmcnt & PLCC Equipment          6.1      5.4                                                         6.1
Transformers (Main & Aux), CTS, PTS          4.7      4.2                                                         4.7
Svitchgear & Control Relay & LT P nels       3.8      3.3                                                         3.8
Isolators                                                         0.5                                             0.5
Lighting Arresters                                                0.5                                             0.5
DC Equipment                                                      0.3                                             0.3
Workshop Tools                                                    1.8                                             1.8
Structures & Bus Bars                                            0.8                                               0.8
Power a Control Cables                                            0.7                                             0.7
3. Q_-waications nd Load Dis.utch
FPcilities for RISEB
Supply & Erection of Equipment & Material    3.0      2.6                                                         3.0
4. Intitutional Devaloament and Trainina
Training and Coeuters Materials and
Equipment for BYSEB                                                                0.6       0.5                0.6
Trainang and Computers Materials and
Equipmaent for CUC                                                                 1.3       1.1                1.3



-75-                                          ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 3
1CB                 LCB                  fther            N ^
Contract  Bank      Contract  Dank       Contract  BDnk        Contract
Project Eleet                                    Value     Finance   Value      Finnc    Value       Fna nce   Value      Total
D. Trs" in and Consulting Services
Paewr Station Design end Iplementation                                                     4.4       4.4 /               4.4
Institutional Development of HPSEJ                                                         1.4       1.4 21              1.4
Training Prog"x   end dAsLstance Services                                                  2.9       2.9 21              2.9
for CUC
E. Coemensatlon a*d Other Upoenses for
Resettl mnt and Epviromental Protection                                                                          1.3     1.3
F. Enadneerina and AdministratiLon                                                                                  43.4    43.4
TOTALS                                        1,290.9    471.1        41.3       3.6      87.5      10.3        54.9 1,474.6
it Figures subject to roundlng errors.
VI Procured in accordance with Boak's Guidelines for use of consultants.



-76-
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts
Bid Docs.
Furnish     Invite    Opening   Contract
Contracts                             to Bank     Bids       of Bids   Award
A. POWER STATION
Civil Works
Dam, Intake and Desiltir6 Chambers       1/89        4/89       7/89     12/89
Headrace Tunnel                          1/89        4/89       7/89     12/89
Penstock, Power Station and
Tailrace Tunnel                        1/89        4/89       7/89     12/89
Eguip_ment
Turbogenerating Units and
Inlet Valves                           3/89        6/89       9/89      3/90
15/400-kV, Single Phase 95-HVA
Transformers                           3/89        6/90       9,'90     4/91
400/200-kV, 105-NVA Single Phase
Auto Transformers                      2/89        3/90       9/90      4/91
Station Service & AUxiliary
Transformers                           6/91        8/91       2/92      9/92
Relay and Control Panels                 3/89         5/89     11/89      6/90
400-kV SF6 and 220-kV Indoor
Switchgear                             9/88        5/90      11/90      6/91
400-kV and 220-kV Oil-filled Cable
with Terminal Equipment, etc.          3/89        8/90       4/91    1.1/91
15-kV & 400-V LT Switchgear, &
Switchboards                           7/90       11/90       2/91     12/91
DC Battezies and Charging Equipment      5/91        9/91      12/91     10,g92



ANNEX 3.5
-77-                                 Page 2 of 3
Bid Does.
Furnish     Invite    Opening   Contract
Contracts                             to Bank     Bids       of Bids   Award
Travelling Cranes for Power House,
and Valve House & Other Cranes         5/89       10/89       1/90     11/90
Power and Control Cables                 1/91        5/91       8/91      6/92
15-kV Isolated Phase Ducts              11/90        3/91       6/91      4/92
Firefighting Equipment for Genera-
tors, Transformers, & Equipment        1/91        5/91       8/91      6/92
PLCC & Communication Equipment           4/91        8/91      11/91      9/92
220-kV & 400-kV Lightning Arrestors      4/91        8/91      11/91      9/92
220-kV & 400-kV Group Operated
Outdoor Isolators & Switchyard
Structures, etc.                       4/91        8/91      11/91      9/92
Tractors, Mobile Cranes, & Vehicles      6/89        9/89      12/R9      6/90
Workshop Equipment, Site Communication,
Emergency DG Set, Electric Lift,
Compressed Air & Cooling & Service
Water Systems                          8/89       12/89       3/90     12/90
B. TRANSMISSION SYSTEM FOR HPSEB
Transmission Lines
Line Towers, Nuts and Bolts and
Accessories                            2/88        3/89       6/89     10/89
Line Conductor and Earthwire             8/88        3/89       6/89     10/89
Insulators with Hardware, Line
Clamps/Connectors, etc.                8/88        3/89       6/89     10/89
Foundations and Tower & Line
Erection                               6/89        8/89      10/89      3/90
Terminal Equipment Including PLCC        6/89        8/89      10/89      3/90
Tools, Transport Equipment for
Construction & Inspection of Lines    6/89         8/89      10/89      3/90



-78-                                 ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 3
Bid Docs.
Furnish     Invite    Opening   Contract
Contracts                             to Bank      Bids      of Bids   Award
Substation
Civil Works (Six S/S)                     5/89        8/89      10/89      3/90
Transformers (Main, Auxiliary,
Station, CTs and PTs)                  7/89        10/89     12/89       5/90
Switchgear, Control, Relay & LT
Panels                                 7/89        10/89     12/89       5/90
Switchyard Structures & Bus Bars         5/89         8/89     10/89       3/90
Group-operated discunnects 132-kV
& 33-kV                                5/89         8/89     10/89       3/90
Lightning Arrestors 132 & 33-kV           7/89       10/89     12/89       5/90
DC Batteries & Charging Equipment         5/91        4/92       6/92     10/92
Power & Control Cables                    3/89        8/89     10/89       3/90
Workshop, Machinery,
Special Tools and Plant                2/89         5/89      7/89      12/89
Erection & Commissioning (S/S Wise)
(a) Sarabhai & Hamirpur                5/89         8/89     10/89       3/90
(b) Palampur, Kandrori Abm,
& Dosaka                           5/90         8/90     10/90       3/91



-79-
ANNEX 3.6
INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated DisbursemL-ijts
(US$ Million)
Bank FY              Half Yearly
and Semester         Disbursement         Cumulative        Cumulative (%)
1989 I                   0.0                 0.0                  0.0
II                  0.3                0.3                   0.1
1990 I                   0.3                 0.6                  0.2
II                 25.0                25.3                  5.2
1991 I                  24.0                49.3                 10.1
II                 24.0                73.3                 15.1
1992 I                  24.0                97.3                 20.1
II                 54.0               151.3                 31.2
1993 I                  54.0               205.3                 42.3
II                 63.0               268.3                 55.3
1994 I                  63.0               331.3                 68.3
II                 50.0               381.3                 78.6
1995 I                  50.0               431.3                 88.9
II                 17.0              448.3                  92.4
1996 I                  17.0               465.3                 95.9
II                  9.0              474.3                  97.8
1997 I                  10.7               485.0                100.0



AN-8 3.7
-80-                        Page 1 of 15
INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
SUGGESTED TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR VARIOUS STUDIES AND
CONSULTARCY ASSIGNMENTS
(I) Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for the Power Plant
1.       All the major components of the Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric
Project, except the diversion dam and intake structures are underground.
The NJPC proposes to execute this Project in a most expedient and
economical manner by deploying modern methods available in the relevant
branches of engineering. The Project, therefore, specially requires
expertise in the design and construction of the underground works in
addition to advice on the design, erection and commissioning of electrical
and mechanical equipment adopting latest technologies available in these
fields.
2.       The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) and the Central Water
Commission (CWC) are the Principal Consultants for this Project. The
responsibility of finalising the designs/drawings and specifications shall
be discharged by the Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation (NJPC) in consultation
with the Principal Consultants. A Panel of Experts (POE) has been
constituted for this Project. The design criteria and memoranda for
various Project components have been prepared by the NJPC in consultation
with Principal Consultants and these have been vetted by the POE. The
layout of various structures has been finalised and approved by the POE.
Considering the size and complex nature of the Project, the need to appoint
Consultants has been recognised. The NJPC would retain the services of
CEA/CWC to assist in the preparation of the detailed design of the project
and in the supervision of the constructlon. The design and supervision
team would include, inter.alia, CEA's and CWC's staff, HPSEB's staff, and
GSI staff. The consulting firm referred to here would work in coordination
with to this team.
3.       The consultants should have prowen experience in planning, edesign
and supervision of projects of similar size and nature to those of Nathpa
Jhakri. The consultants would assist and advice the project authorities
during the implementation of the project in the preparation of the detailed
designs, supervision of construction and project management. The
consultants should have wide experience in:
(a) preparation of specifications and supervision of construction of
civil works, particularly large underground works in geology
similar to Nathpa Jhakri;



-81-                ~~~~ANNEX37
Page 2 of 15
(b) preparation of specifications for major hydro units and
ancillaries particularly for heavily silted waters;
(c) supervision of erection and testing of big (200 MW or more)
rotating generation equipment and ancillaries for similar
projects; and
(d) management of large projects involving international contractor(s)
and suppliers and international financing.
4.       It is desirable that the Consultants possess knowledge about the
conditions in India such as general geology of the area, construction
practices, laws and cost structure of the material and labour etc.
5.       The consultants would particularly:
(a) assist the project authorities in the preparation and review of
technical specifications for the civil works and equipment,
including turbines and generators, gas insulated switchgear, inlet
valves, full sealed radial gates and ancillary equipment as
needed;
(b) review the bidding drawings/documents for civil works and
equipment as required;
(c) assist in the techno-economical analysis of bids as needed;
(d) review of construction drawings as required;
(e) review of shop drawings of critical equipment proposed by
suppliers;
(f) assist the project authorities in setting up quality control
procedures and in interpretation of results as required;
(g) review the drilling and blasting patterns of support systems,
blasting and rock anchor tests proposed and assist in the
interpretation of results;
(h) assist the project authorities in handling claims submitted by the
contractors as required;
(i) assist the project in solving specific technical problems that may
arise during construction;
(j) advise on construction methodology, selection of construction
equipment and machinery for the Project; and
(k)  provide general advise in matters related tc contract management
as necessary.



-82-                        ANNEX 3.7
Page 3 of 15
6.       To perform their duties, the consultant will assign full time lead
experts for assistance in project management, design and construction of
underground works and for approval of drawings and supervision of erection
and testing of electromechanical equipment as required. These lead experts
will be assigned for a period sufficient to ensure the successful
completion of the civil works and the commissioning of the units.
7.       The consvltants would deploy lead experts and other specialised
staff as may be necessary, with the approval of tht project authorities or
at their request.
8.       The consultants will work in close coordination with CEA and CWC
staff responsible for the ultimate clearance of the specifications.
9.       The main disc'plines in which externial expertise would be required
are:
- underground excavation of large cavities and rock supporting
systems, including mechanical excavation tunneling methods;
- geotechnical engineering and rock mechanics including analytical
methods (tridimensional finite elements analysis);
- quality control of civil works and inspection of manufacturing of
critical equipment;
- electro-mechanical engineering;
- general project management and monitoring; and
- claims handling, whe.e ever necessary.
In addition to experts in the above major disciplines, the consulting firm
would provide the services of a lead project advisor of ample experience in
design and construction supervision of large hydropower schemes similar to
Nathpa Jhakri to assist the chief Engineers for Design and Construction
during project implementation as needed. The firm would also supply
specialized services from the headquarters offices when it is more
efficient to do so or when the required facilities such as laboratory,
software programs, etc. are not locally available. The firm would also
provide services of other specialists on short term basis if necessary.
10.      The timing and duration of the consulting firm services would be
related to the executions of particular project activities. The
consultants input would be more intense during the earlier stages of
project implementation (preparation of design memorandums, core designs,
specifications, establishing quality control procedures and establishing
monitoring system) and in the supervision of critical aspects (caverns
excavation and erection of major equipment). As construction activities
progress consultant's assistance would be reduced gradually. Eventually
periodic reviews of the consultants would be sufficient in particular
instances.



-83-                        ANNE 3.7
Page 4 of 15
11.      As the project layout has already been finalised in consultation
with the Principal Consultants and has also been approved by the POE, no
further substantial studies are envisaged so far as Project concept is
concerned. The layout of the structures may, however, be reviewed with a
view to achieve economy as also improvement in operation and maintenance.
12.      The Consultants may after reviewing the Project proposals, propose
further studies, if any, to be done by the NJPC. These shall be listed out
in the Technical proposal.
13.      The Project is expected to be completed in a period of 7 years
including 1 1/2 years for infrastructural works. Drawing indicating
construction schedule is enclosed.
14.      The man months required to be put in by the Consultant in
different areas are estimated to be about 200. These would, however, depend
on the actual requirements worked out by the project authorities from time
to time.
15.      In the light of the above objectives, the Consultant shall
elaborate in their proposals about their methodology and approach for this
assignment, giving various alternatives they propose for reviewing the
general layout, equipment and construction methods, etc, as well as the
breakup of man-months for individual assignments/activities.



-84-                ANN~EX 3.7
-84-                        Page 5 of 15
(II) Suggested Scope for a Training Program for
CEA. CWC. GSI and Other Institutionsl
1.       The objectives of the training assistance are to:
(a)  familiarize CEA, CWC, GSI and other institutions staff with the
state of the art in: (1) planning, investigation and design of
hydropower schemes with particular emphasis on underground works;
and (ii) planning and design of large power systems;
(b) equip CEA and CWC with up-to-date design manuals and standards for
investigation, preparation and design of hydropower projects
including type of project reports, standard-specifications,
typical bidding and construction drawings, etc.;
(c) to equip CEA and CWC with the necessary specialized office
equipments, computer facilities, software and training technical
literature and other elements necessary for carrying out their
work in the field of hydropower planning and design.
2.       Training would be imparted primarily on the job but would also
include class-room conferences, workshops, study tours and courses abroad
and any other means considered appropriate. The target grouD would be the
professionals at the level of executive engineer and above, and selected
staff from the SEBs NHPC, GSI and other institutions designated by GOI.
3.       CEA and CWC would enter into an agreement with a seasoned and
highly experienced design consulting firm or with a highly reputed
hydropower utility or with a combination of them with extensive background
in design and construction of hydropower plants particularly underground
and in planning and design of large power systems. CEA and CWC would also,
directly or through the training consultant, contract the services of
experts in specific areas of training that the Consultant is not able to
provide.
4.       The main vehicle for staff training and development of manuals
would be the preparation and design of two or three projects selected by
CEA and CWC to be jointly carried out with the training consultant. CEA and
CWC teams in charge of preparing or designing particular components of the
project would work together with the consultants as needed. The
consultants would not do the actual design work but would guide and train
the concerned staff in doing it in order to ensure that they master the
state of the art techniques and acquire necessary knowledge at the end of
the training period.
5.       It is envisaged that the training program would extend for a
period of about three years and would involve about 150 staff-m:nths of
consultants. The detailed training program would be prepared jointly by
CEA, CWC and the consultant on the basis of guidelines to be provided by
CwC.
1/1 To be updated after training mission scheduled in April 1988.



-85-                 AM~~~NEX 3.7
-85-                        Page 6 of 15
6.       Some specific topics in which GOI's agencies have expressed
interest and should be part of the training are:
(a)  Power Systes:
(i) Use cf computer in project evaluation and planning. Economic
evaluation practices of peaking and pumped storage schemes.
(ii) Optimum development planning in a river basin, optimisation of
project features, modelling and simulation of
multipurpose/multi-reservoir water resources system, planning
for cascade power development, optimum sequencing of hydro
projects.
(iii)  Models for study and analysis of the role of a hydro electric
project in the system load curve in an integrated power
system.
(iv)  Development of simulat'on models suited to specific problems
in the Indian context by CEA engineers with the active help,
training and interaction with specialised institutions,
organisatioas. Integration of the results of simulation
models with general optimum power planning models.
(v) Environmental impact studies of a hydro electric project.
(vi) Micro processor based control systems and protection for large
hydro power stations.
(vii)  Modern practices in design and engineering of high head
francis turbines, pumped storage schemes, particularly split
runner, two speed motor generators, etc.
(viii) Remote control of hydro projects through modern technology
such as optical fibers.
(ix) Modern management information system for investigation,
monitoring and construction monitoring.
(x) Large capacity generator units with Francis/Kaplan/Pelton/
Bulb type turbines.
(xi) Site assembly of large capacity transformers, gas insulated
switch gears, 400 kV oil filled and dry cables.
(xii)  State estimation of power projects through micro computers.
(b) fydXoelectric Projects
(i) Finite element analysis for underground excavations



-86-                ~~~~ANNEX 3.7
-86-
Page 7 of 15
(ii)  Uses of shotcrete, rock support system design, chemical grouting
and use of tunnel boring machines
(iii) State of the art in blasting technology
(iv)  Latest trends in design of gates, valves and hydraulic hoists
(v) Advanced construction planning and management
(vi)  Site investigation techniques and modern technology available
(vii) Surge and water hammer analysis
(viii) Structural analysis of dams, barrages, hydel power houses etc.
including finite element analysis
(ix)  Analysis of underground openings and structures with foundation
complexities
(x) Computer aided drafting for preparation of Engineering drawings
for the various river valley projects
(xi) Development of behavioral models for safety assessment of dams
and hydraulic structures based on interpretation of observed data
(xii) Creation and maintenance of data base3 for seismic criteria for
the design of various structures, special problems etc.



-87-                        ANNEXK 3.7
Page 8 of 15
(III) Scoge gf Wgrk fgr Utility Nanagement Study
Obiective
1.       The objective of the study is to formulate and introduce the
changes necessary in:
(i)  the allocation of responsibilities amongst the different
organizational units of HPSEB;
(ii) the routines and working procedures;
(iii) the reporting, monitoring systems and internal controls.
The proposed changes would result in overall improved efficiency
and would furnish HPSEB with working procedures and tools compatible with
its needs. The study would identify the needs for training of the staff to
properly operate the new procedures and routines. The recommendations of
the study would culminate in: (i) the preparation of an operational manual
covering the obligations and routines of HPSEB's organizational units; and
(ii) the establishment of procedures and formats for recording, processing,
storing and retrieving all the information and transactions necessary for
the operation of HPSEB. These proposals should be coordinated with the
management information system study (MIS) being prepared separately.
Scope of Consultancy Work
2.       The consultant should:
(i) review of existing allocation of functions amongst the
organizational units to determine the existence of duplications or
gaps and to identify the justification and purpose of the
presently assigned tasks. The consultants should review whether
the necessary tasks are being performed in the following areas:
planning; engineering and construction; operation and maintenance;
financial management and accounting; personnel administration and
training; administrative services including data processing,
materials management, organization and meth'ds, etc.; customer
services such as processing of new connections, claims, billings,
collections, etc., and internal controls and monitoring;
(ii) prepare a proposal for a revised allocation of functions
including, if considered essential, recommendations for changes in
the existing organization;
(iii) prepare an operational manual for each organizationa'. unit;



-88-                        ANNEX 3.7
Page 9 of 15
(iv) establish the routine procedures within each unit and for HPSEB as
a whole. The procedures would include the flow oi work. the
systems to monitor task implementation, the level of technology to
be used, and the routines and formats to be used to process work
order and to record, maintain and retrieve information pertaining
to each unit's operations;
(v) design standard forms and establish form flow charts and
procedures in the form of working instructions;
(vi) identify and assist in the implementation of the training program
for HPSEB staff in the use of the new procedures; and
(vii)  prepare a plan for gradual implementation of the proposed changes.
3.       The consultants would also assist HPSEB in the implementation of
the study recommendations.  After a trial period of, say, 6 months the
consultants should help HPSEB in the identification of any adjustments
necessary to the system and would reflect the same in the final manuals,
procedures and forms.



-89-                 AMM~E 3-7Z
Page 10 of 15
(IV) Terms of Reference for the Panel of Lcperts
1.       The main purpose of the panel would be to review the design
concept of the project and of its structures and the adequacy and safety of
their design. The Panel, should also conduict periodic reviews during final
engineering and construction to assess whether there is need for changes in
the design or in the construction methods. The Panel's activities would be
geared to ensure safe and economic designs.
2.       It is suggested that the Panel should include experts in the
following fields:
- Dam planning and design (including spillways and energy
dissipation structures)
- Tunneling and underground works
- Hydrology and sediments
- Geotechnics, foundations, and soil mechanics
- Planning and design of hydropower facilities
3.       In discharging its duties the Panel may request for the
assistance, on a temporary basis, of experts in matters which due to its
high specialized nature it is, in the Panel's opinion, advisable to do so.
4.       The Panel, unless they otherwise decide, would meet regularly
every four months to review the status of technical works. It would meet
also at project authorities' request when the need for consultation
appears.
5.       The Panel would prepare and submit written proceedings of the
meetings (regular or extraordinary), including recommendations, within
three weeks of the meetings, and, in case of urgency, will prepare
technical memorandums or aide memoirs immediately after or during the
meetings. A preliminary report would be prepared before each meeting
adjourns. The preliminary reports, proceedings and any other memorandums,
aide memoirs, etc. would be submitted to the project authorities, and
through them to the Bank.
6.       The Panel should in particular, but not limited to, review and
suggest the necessary changes to:
(a) The final layouts of the project and the recommended ones.
(b) The field investigation program including geology, soils and
foundations, construction materials.
(c)  The proposed tests, analysis and quality control methods to
determine the properties of the materials to be used in the
construction or as foundations of the mein structures as well as
the proposed processing for the materials (aggregates, concrete,
land fills, filter materials, etc.).



-90-                        ANNEX 3.7
Page 11 of 15
(d)  The design criteria and assumptions to be used for the different
components of the project.
(e)  The technical solutions (its adequacy and economy) proposed to
deal with special or uncommonly difficult situations during design
or construction.
(f)  The safety factors proposed for the different components of the
project.
(g) The hydrological analysis for determining the design flood for
temporary as well as for permanent works, the output of the
project, and the operation rules of the reservoir.
(h) The analysis of potential sediment problems for the project and
the proposed counter measures to eliminate or ameliorates them.
(L) The proposed capacity of the surplusing facilities for the dam
(spillway, sluices, etc) and the energy dissipation structures.
(j) The tunneling and underground work methods, designs and
procedures.
(k) The instrumentation program (temporary as well as permanent)
proposed for project construction and subsequent monitoring.
7.       The Panel's assignment would last until the completion of the
construction of the project.



-91-                        ANNEX 3.7
Page 12 of 15
(V) Suggested Sgope of the Bulk SupDly Tariff Sti1y
1.       NJPC wishes to undertake a study to plan the pricing of
electricity that will be generated by the Nathpa Jhakri hydroelectric power
station. NJPC's objectives are to ensure that: (i) NJPC maintains a sound
financial position; (ii) the power station is fully utilized; and (iii)
v-hat prices which are charged encourage efficient operations planning and
investment planning amongst NJPC's customers.
2.       The first phase of the study will be to estimate the optimal way
in which the station should operate as part of the Northern Region system.
This will entail estimating the marginal operating costs of existing p:.ant
and other new plant on the Northern Region and scheduling plants'
operations to minimize operation costs. Operation of Nathpa Jhakri would
be scheduled to meet incremental demands at times when system marginal
costs are highest and to maximize fuel cost savings against existing
thermal plant.
3.       The second phase of the study wUi  estimate the marginal costs of
generation from Nathpa Jhakri at different times of the day and during
different seasons.  At times when water used for generation would not be
replaced by water that would otherwise be spilled, marginal generation
costs will include both capital and operating costs of the power station.
Generation using water that would otherwise be spilled would be costed
based on marginal operating costs only.
4.       The third phase of the study will design a bulk supply tariff to
be applied at the power station busbars at would produce demands for Nathpa
Jhakri's output enabling the station to operate as closely as possible to
the optimal way.  The level and structure of this tariff will be based on
the stations marginal generation costs, but (where necessary) will include
adjustments to:
(a) take account of differences between the prices charged for other
bulk supplies and their marginal generation costs;
(b) any technical or economic constraints on electricity generation
and transmission in the Northern Region; and
(c) provide adequate revenues to NJPC.
In instances where adjustments from marginal generation costs are required,
these will be designed to so as to minimize the distortion to Nathpa
Jhakri's optimal pattern of generation.
6.       The study will include sensitivity analyses to show how Nathpa
Jhakri's pattern of generation and bulk supply tariff should be charged in
response to feasible changes in development or operation of the Northern
Region system. Also, the study will examine the desirability of setting up
a stabilization fund to protect NJPC's financial interests in years of
exceptionally low rainfall. Finally, the study will specify the form of
contracts that could be used to implement the recommended bulk supply
tariff.



-92-                        Page 13 of 15
7.       Should the Bank so request, NJPC will extend the scope of the
study to include transmission lines associated with the Nathpa Jhakri power
station being installed by the NHPC. This extension to the study wouli,
using the same economic principles as for pricing the generation from
.Nathpa Jhakri, propose tariff supplements that would ensure that: (i) NHPC
would recover the full costs of installing and operating the transmission
lines; and (iI) transmission capacity would be utilized efficiently.



-93-                       ANNEX 3.7
Page 14 of 15
(VI) Suggested Scogo of Work for Accountina and
Nanagement Information Svstem (NIS) Study for HPFEB
Obiectives
The objectives of the study would be to assist HPSB in
strengthening its finance and accounting operations by:
(i)  Providing assistance to fully implement the new commercial
accounting system (CAS) recently introduced by HPSEB;
(ii)  Assisting in closing the books of accounts and compiling annual
accounts for the first two years after the CAS is fully
implemented;
(iii) Training of Finance and Accounts Staff, at all Accounting Units
including Head Office, for the CAS;
(iv)  Asaisting HPSEB in the design and implementation of a suitable
Management Information System which would cover both operational
data and financial information;
(v)  Training of about 8 - 10 staff in the use of personal computers in
preparing projected financial statements for financial planning
purposes, and in preparing reports to be generated oy the MIS.
(vi) Assisting HPSEB in formulating and implementing an appropriate
fixed asset recording system.
Terms of Reference
(i)  Prepare with HPSEB a detailed program for implementat'Nn of the
CAS, including a training schedule;
(ii)  Review with HPSEB management and adjust, if necessary, the
organization and staffing of the Accounting Wing of HPSEB;
(iii) Design and discuss with the Accounts Member and Chief Accounting
Officer of HPSEB the procedures, formats, forms, etc. to be
implemented. To the degree possible, the Consultants should make
use of the existing forms and procedures, or simplifications
thereof, which are satisfactory and meet with the requirements of
the GAS;
(iv)  Provide fo-mal classroom training to the HPSEB Finance and
Accounts Staff on the proposed CAS;
(v)  Make periodic visits as needed and as agreed wita HPSEB to the
Accounting Units during CAS implementation to review the progress
and to give on-the-spot guidance and advice;



-94-                        ANNEX 3-7
Page 15 of 15
(vi) Ensure that forms and registers recommended for use are properly
completed and that procedures laid down in the areas of financial
accounting, fixed asset recording and information systems are
pro; erly followed;
(vii)  Assist HPSEB Accounting Staff in closing of Accounts for the
financial years ending March 31, 1990 and March 31, 1991;
(viii)  Analyze the current information systems and recommend an MIS which
will include inter alia:
(a)  Information to be collected-where, when and by whom;
(b)  Design of various repurting formats for different functional
departments including construction, gener-ion, transmission,
distribution, financial, commercial, personnel, statistical and
administration;
(c)  Flow of reports;
(d)  Procedure for synteLesis and analysis of reports;
(e)  Procedure for follow-up action;
(ix)2 Recommend and assist in the procurement of 4 to 6 personal
computers and suitable software for use in the preparation of (a)
projected financial statements; and (b) reports for the MIS;
(x)  Provide classroom and hands-on training to HPSEB's staff as needed
i- the operation and use of the personal computers and preparation
of projected financial statements and MIS reports;
(xi) Coordinate as necessary with the consultants for the utility
management consultancy.
Regorting
The consultants would:
(i)  Prepare quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the
study and help in preparing special reports, if any, required to
be furnished by HPSEB to the Wodld Bank;
(ii) Furnish reports discussing implementation as well as further steps
to be taken where progress is tardy or unsatisfactory;
(iii) At the end of the training and implementation assignment, furnish
a report describing matters that require continuing attention.
2/ The consultants and HPSEB would liaise closely with the Bank in the
formulation of a financial model for HPSEB. This would ensure
consistency of approach with models being developed for other SEBs.



-95.
aJ  ~ANE 3.8
Ih
IN 
3fi t_iH    lfij
Sii    i     Ij    :Ijjh 1 
Ii             -~~~i5  :1'1{ 1   liii



INDIA
NATHPA JHAR8I P0WER CORPORATION
FORECAST INCOME STATEENTS
(YElAR ENDING MAC 31)
(In Rs. Millon)
---------------------   FORCS         O----E      C----------------T---                   -- ---
1988189 1989190 1990191 1991192 1992/93 1993194 1994195 1995/96 1996197 1997198 1998199 1999100 2000101
Energy AvalabilLty (GMk)
NJPC Gnceratlon                                                                                             1000    4300    7050    7050    7050
Station Conasuptlon                                                                                           10      43      71      71       71
Not Genoration                                                                                               990    4257    6980    69-0   6980
Sales of Electricity (GIIh)                                                                                   990    4257    6980    6980    6980
Of Uhich: CROP                                                                                                218     937    153S    1535    1535
OOW (12X free share)                                                                              119     511     838      838     838
WPC$SE3s                                                                                          653    2310    4606    4606    4606
Av. Revenue (ps.jkvh)                                                                                          60      60      60       60      60
Av. Tariff (psI kwh)                                                                                           68      68      68       6       68
Revenues
Sales of Electricity                                                                                          592    2547    4177    4177    4177
Of Wilch: GOlF                                                                                                148     637    1044    1044    1044
HiPcisn.                                                                                           444    1911    3132    3132    3132
Total Revenues                                                                                                592    2547    4177    4177    4177
Espouses
AdmnLstration                                                                                                 17      73       78      82      87
Esployces  Remuneration                                                                                        35     147     155     165      175
OperatLon & Maintsinence                                                                                       69     293     311      33U     349
Depreciation                                                                                                  104     415     415      415     415
Total Expenses                                                                                                225     929     959      "2    1027
Operating Inc-.                                                                                               368    1619    3217    3184    3150
Total Interest                              32     144      296     512     833    1168    1382    1473    1507    1494    1432    1331    1231
Least IDC Capitallsed                       32     144      296     512      833    1168    1382    1473    1130        0       0        0       0
net Incom                                                                                                      -9     124    1785    1853    1919
Rate of Return (I)
Uistorical Costs 11                                                                                          3       6      12      12       12
Revalued Asset 8.&' 21                                                                                      S        6      11      10      10
Operating Ratlo (X) 31                                                                                         38      36      23      24       25
0_



1NDIA
IATPA JHAXRI POIER CORPORATIOW
FORECAST BALNCE SHEET
(YEAR ENDING MARCR 31)
(In Rs. Million)
---------------------------------------F PR1CASS ---------------------------------------------------------
1986869 1989190 1990191 1991192 1992193 1993194 1994195 1995196 1996197 199719" 199919999100 2000101
Assets
Fixed Assets
____________
Gross *Ixed Assets In Operation                                                                        27678  27676   27678   27675   2767S
Less: Accu. Depreciation                                                                                 104     519     934    1349   1764
Net Fized Assets i, Operation                                                                          27574   27159   26744   26389   25913
Capitatl Works-in-Progres                913    3263    5533  10011   15713   21219   24146  26548
_______ ------- ______ _____ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -----------
Total Fixed Assets                       913    326?   5533   10011   15713   21219  24146  26546  27574   27159   26744   26329  25913
Other Assets                                              13      26      39      52      65      78      78      76      78      76      76
Capital Invest. 7ld                                                                                                      277    1651    5491
Current Assets
______________
Cash                                                                                                      12      49      52      55      58
Inventories                                                                                               17      73      76      62      67                I
Accounts Receivable                                                                                       74     318    522    522       522                &
Total Current Assets                                                                                     103    441      652    659    666
_  __                   - -     -------    -------   -------   __   - -   __.   -- - -   ...    -------
Total Assets                             913   3263    5546  10037   15752   21271   24211  26626  27755   27676   27750   28917   30150
_______ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------
Equity & Liabilities
EquLty
aP Paid-In CapLtal                       114     408    693    1255    1969   2659    3026   3528   3608   3584    3328   3326    3326
001  Paid-In Capltal                     342    1224    2080   3764    5907    7977   9079   9985  10824   10753    9985    9965   9965
Retained Earnings                                                                                  0      -9    115    1901    3754    5673
total Equity                             457    1631   2773    5016    7876   10636  12106  13313   14423   14453   15213   170S7  15965
Total Long Term Debt                     457    1631    2773   5016    7876   10636   12106  13313   13140   12448   11756  11064   10372
Current LLabillties
Curr. Hat, of LT Loans                                                                                   17S    692      692     692     692
Accounts Payable                                                                                           9      37      39      A1      44
Other Curr. Liabillties                                                                                   12      49      52      58      58
Total Current Llabillties                                                                                193     778     763     768     794
Total Equlty & Liablities                913    3263    5546  10037   15752  21271   24211   26626  27755   27676   27750  26917   30150                0
_______~~~~----                     -------   ----     -----   _____-----____     -------   -------   ------. .......- ------  _ ____ ...   _____ ___
Debt as   of (Debt+Equity) 41             50      50      50      50      50      50      50      50      48      46      44      39      35
Current Ratio  5/                                                                                        0.5     0.6     0.8     0.6     0.6
Accounts Receivable (Months) 61                                                                          1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5     1.5



INDIA
NATUPA JEARRI POWER CORPORATIOE
FORSECAsT SOURCES & APPLICATIONS OF UNDS
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
(In Rs. Million)
--------------------------------------- FORECAST ------------------------------------------'--------------
1988199 1989/90 1990191 1991192 199293 1"93/94 1"4195 1995196 1996197 1997196 1998199 199"100 2000t01
Sources
Internal Sources
____________,___
Operating Inccee                                                                                          368    1619    3217    3184    3150
Depreclation                                                                                              104     *15      415     415     415
Total Iniernal Sources                                                                                 471    2034    3632    3600    3565
Paid-in Capital                          457    1175    1142    2245    2858    2760    1470    1207    1119      -94   -1025
Borrowings
__________
GotIGMCI  Loan                           457      311    419      *78    1731    2023    1122     '62
I8RD Loan                                  0    864      723    1767    1127      737     348     246
Total Sorrovings                         457    1175    1142    2245    2858    2760    1470    1207
Total Sources                            913   2350    2263    4491    5715    5520    2940    2415    1590    1940    2607    3600    3565                 uD
Applications
Proportd Project                         681    2206    1974    3965    4869    4339    1545      929
IOC C_. talised                           32     144     296     512     833    1168    1382    1473    1130
Total Investment Pronrm                  913   2350    2270    4478    5702    5507    2927    2402    1130
Feasibility Studies                                       13       13      13      18      13      13
Capital Invest. Fund                                                                                                       277    1574    1640
Debt Service
____________
Total Interest                            32     144     296     512     833    1168    1382    1473    1507    1494    1432    1331    1231
Less: IDC Capitallsed                     32     1*4     296     512     833    1168    1382    1473    1130
Net Inetrest                                                                                  377    1494    1432    1331    1231
Repayment                                                                                                   0      173     692     692     692
Total Debt Service                                                                                        377    1667    2124    2023    1923
change in Working Capital
Varlitlon In Cash                                                                                           12      37       3       3        3
Variation other than Cash                                                                                   71     235     203      -t       -1
Net Chuane in Working Capital                                                                              83      272     206       v       2
Total ApplicattovA                       913    2350    2263    4491    5115    5520    2940    2415    1590    '940    2607    3600    3545
_et S_ric  Cov  ---a--- ------ - -   -     -        -1.3                     1.2     1.7 1.-          1.
Debt Serwlaa Coverage 71                                                                                   1.3     1.2     1 7     1.5     1.             " ht



MNDIA
NAINPA JLUIU POWER CORPORATION
FORECAST FIInCIAL INDICATORS la
(TEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
* FORECAST        f,
1996197 1997198 199.199 1999100 2000101
Rate of Return X X
-Historical Base (1)                 3      6       12      12      12
-lBm  Guidelies (2)                  3      6       11     t0      1O
Operating Ratio S - (3)             30      36      23      24      25
Debt a X of Debt + Equity (4)       48      46      44      39      35
t;urrent Ratio (5)                 0.5    0.6      0.8     0.8     0.8
Accoumts Receivable  - (6)         1.5    1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5
Months
Debt Service Coverage (7)          1.3    1.2      1.7     1.8     1.9
/a DefLaLtLons are provided In the folliw  page. 
0*



-100-                         Page 5 of 8
NATHIPA JHAKRI POUE CORPORATION (NJPC)
FIDMial Intlicat9rs - Definitions
1. Rate of Return aased on Historical Costs
The Corporation shall take from time to time all such measures as
may be necessary including, if necessary, adjustment of tariffs of the
Corporation to ensure that the total revenue in any financial year shall.
after meeting: (i) all expenses properly chargeable to revenues, including
operating, maintenance and manai,cment expenses; (ii) taxes on income and
profits; and (iii) depreciation; produce such surplus before interest as is
n,t less than 6% :n financial year 1997/98 and 12% thereafter, of tlle
average net fixed assets of the Corporation in service at the beginning and
at the end of such year. Critical terms listed above would be defined as
follows:
(a) "total revenues" means revenues of the Corporation from the sale of
electricitq and other services, miscellaneous income, and
subventions in respect of extraordinary costs which are borne by
the Corporation anld wkich are not passed on to customers of the
Corporation;
(b) 'expenses" means the cost of power purchased, fuel, operating,
maintenance, management and administrative expenses, and all taxes
and duties accruing during the financial year, other than taxes on
income and profits of the (orporation;
(c) "taxes on income and profits" consists of income taxes and other
levies accrued by the Corporation according to the provisions of
any legislation or regulation applicable in this respect;
(d)  "depreciation" means a provision derived in accordance with the
straight-line method based on the useful life of assets as
stipulated in the Borrower's notification G.S.R. No. 1330 (E) dated
December 12, 1986, issued under the provisions of Section 68 of the
Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, of the Borrower, based on the gross
value of the Corporation's fixed assets in service at the beginning
of each year; and
(e) "net fixed assets of the Corporation in service" means the original
cost of such fixed assets, as reduced by the aggregate of the
cumulative depreciation in respect of such assets.
2.  Rate of Return as per Rank Guidelines
Numerator: Income after depreciation but before interest.
Denominator: Average net fixed assets in operation after deducting
accumulated depreciation. A pro-forma revaluation was made by revaluing
assets yearly at the domestic inflation rate.



-101-                          AMEX 4.1
Page 6 of 8
3. 0perating Ratio
Numerator: Operating Expenses
Denominator: Operating Revenues
4. Debt as 1 of Debt + Ecuity
Numerator; Long-term debt
Denominator: Long-term Debt plus Total Equity
5. Current Ratio
Numerator: Current Assets
Denominator: Current Liabilities
6. Accounts Receivables as a % of Electricity Sales
Numerator: Accounts Receivables for Electricity Sales
Denominator: Electricity Sales divided by 12 %-.nths
7. Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Numerator: Operating Income plus Depreciation
Denominator: Total Debt-service



-10 2-AIE41
Page 7 of 8
Financial rrojjection' AsuWtions
Price Escalation
1.       Local Inflation is assumed to be 7S irs 1988/89 and 6% in each
fiscal year thereafter during the projection period.
2.       Foreign Inflation is assumed to be 4% from 1988/89 through 1995/96.
Foreign Exchange
3.       For the Investment Program and yearly disbursement of the Bank's
loan, the exchange rate between one United States dollars and Indian Rupee
is assumed to be as follows:
Fiscal Year     Rs               Fiscal Year      Rs
1992          14.8
1988         13.3                1993          15.1
1989         13.8                1994          15.4
1990         14.2                1995          15.7
1991         14.5                1996          16.0
income Statements
4.       The amount of NJPC generation is based on CEAs feasibility studies
which indicate that the six 250 MW units of Nathpa Jhakri power station
would generate 7,050 GWh of electricity in a year with average
precipitation commencing in normal capacity in FY99. Generation in FY97 and
FY98 would be about 14% and 61% respectively due to outages needed for
adjustment following initial commissioning. Note that in FY97, the units
will be operation for only 3 months following commissioning in December
1996.
5.       At normal capacity, NJPC sales of electricity would be 6,980 GWh
after 1% is utilized by station consumption. Twelve percent is provided to
GOHP at no charge as per the Memorandum and Articles of Association
establishing the Corporation.
6.       Administration expense is assumed to be 0.25% of gross fixed assets
in FY97, and thereafter is escallated at the domestic inflation rate.
7.       Employees' remuneration is assumed to be 0.5% of gross fixed assets
in FY97, and thereafter is escallated at the domestic irflation rate.
8.       Operations and maintenance expense is assumed to be 1% of gross
fixed assets in FY97 and thereafter is escallated at the local inflation
rate.
9.       Depreciation expense is assumed to be 1.5% of gross fixed assets.
10.      Interest on loans is forecast to be 14.5% which is the current GOI
on lending rate to central government corporations.



-103-                           MEX 4.
Paj,e 8 of 8
BalfiWe Sheet
11.      Gross Fixed Assets and Work in Progress are based on the historical
costs of the power station. All expenses during construction are
capitalized.
12.      Other assets pertain to the cost of feasibility study of other
projects.
13.      Capital investment fund is the provision of funds to be used for
future capital investments.
14.      Cash balances are expected to be maintained at the equivalent of
two months operation and maintenance expenses.
15.      Inventories are estimated at about three months of operation and
maintenance expenses.
16.      Accounts receivable from electricity sales are assumed to be
maintained at the equivalent of 1.5 months of electricity sales.
17.      Equity funds from GOHP and GOI are assumed to be provided in a
25:75 ratio as per the Memorandum and Articles of Association establishing
NJPC in order to fund about one half of the project cost.
18.      GOI/GOHP loans including the unlent Bank loan are expected to
finance the balance 50% of the power station investment costs. Repayment
would commence the first year after project commissioning.
19.      Current maturity of long-term loans is a provision for loan
repayment due in the following financial year.
20.      Accounts Payable are assumed to be equivalent to 1.5 months of cash
expenses from FY89 thru FY96.
21.      Other current liabilities are assumed to be two months operation
and maintenance expenses.
Sources and Applications of Funds
22.      NJPC's Capital Investment costs for the power station are based on
1988 cost estimates and incorporate the Bank's escalation factors for the
foreign and local components. Any further capital investments, which may be
undertaken by NJPC, during the forecast period are too uncertain to be
included in the financial f4recast at this time.
23.      Debt-service obligations reflect NJPC's obligations to meet both
interest and principal repayments of its borrowings. Due to the
commissioning of the project in December 1996, in FY97, 75% of the interest
due is capitalized. Repayment of principal begins in FY98.



IIDIA
NINACRAL  PiEsS STATE ELECTSICIT BOARID
ANN"*3 1UVS13TM   PROCEAI  at
tna Bo Nililom)
tota     Upend.   Yt.   Ewnd.
Pro..t  Bfoq.    of   1906167 to          -------------------------------C1AST------           --------  -     ------------
Cost     3996*87  Cm. 1996*95             3198607 1967188 1919189 1911990 1990191 19911*2 1992193 1993196 1994619  1995/"
..- --  .......  ........ ......... . . ------_-.  -_-----.  _----_-_-.,-.-_-__  _-_--_-_-_--_-_-__  _-_-__-_-.--_-_-_- _-_-__-_-_-__-_-_-
ESCALATION PACTS                                                            1.00    1.08    .1.7    1.25    1.32    1. 40    1.69    1.5s    1.97    1.7?
(I 1Mema.o)                                                      6.0*     6. O  O  .0   68.02    9.O      6.05 O    .02 O   .01    6.01
1. GURDATI08 scams
A  i.OKIlIC'LETR   (FLAM)
1. QIrl1I9&,w&(606w)               450     666  "la?          4 6
2. Boas ton  Proieet(2)            113     106  86*07        29               29
S. 1W-Shabs uW Aft.(120100)   1664    1038 U6,90/91    829                   315     195       29      50       60
J A,84h-a(l 7M)                    643     250  all"        20               124      80
5 .Thiret(4. SW0)                  227      19  09190       200               22      32       53      75       27
6  Uamt(U2J)                       320      13  93196       So0                2       5       is     100      lO0      40
7.  aJ(t1t.s)                      351       4  92193       346                2      16       35     100      108      a
S.Oa.b. Cu_.& 1mi*nilerea           21      21  cme.
TOtal  A                       3849    1923             1726              696     3O    132       324     276      147
B. 825 PROJECtS (PLAN0)
I .lLilrt3OObU)                      I       0  90/91         1                1
5. Dbm_erl-Sumda(60101)           16)6       0  94195      l6s6                0       1        0      so      132     193      416     221      134     100
S. molt(T.53 )                       1       0  92/93         1                0       1
6. So1 11                            1       1 9196           0
0T4. B.                        1436       1             1*63                1       2        0      is    132       393      416     221      136     100 
C. PtOECS  VITO EXTANL AID
1. IarJl(126m)                    "64            93*196    2631                2      18       19     167      311    621    646        532     86
2   haqw,t422.SHM)                 633           91*92      633                0        1       2      13       26      T0      169      356      17
3  IIhl-131t7mm)                  1401       0  94693      1465                0       1       23      38       79     140      223     396      565      80
3 .Chumrs 31(30049                   3          93/96         3                0 
(832C Projact)
TOTAL  C                      4565        0              3563               2      24       66     237       37    8631     all    1103    1299        60
D. PROJECTS VITO NEICUEOWtl3C STATES
1. Ro1 Dai, (251 of 60am)            I       7 95f96          0
1. EAtoh..  Hmntoo (2S1 of 600       0          9519f         0
TOTAL  D                          7       7                a
TOtAL 8m10  CEN. scolm         9656    1931             7727              69      35       196     599     867    3171    1233    3124    1403        160
13. TUAIOISSio
*. Wa?=  ?WSM. INEIIE             6124     622 Sprens   3502                 361     15i      235     250    536       35       416     457      510     900
b. PROPOSED PROJECT                "6I       0  9*95        961                                        32      131     410      278     1I
131. DISTI3TWIo                    109         2tr.comu    10:                55      56
1?.  WAL t LECIRIICATION         l653      7l6 2yr. cna    1087              119      76      87       96       99     305      111     116     t25      355
V. RVATIOU * I UISATIOU    175                 l7r,comt    175                                 16      19       20      21       22      26       25      27
Vi. S3M1  * IRVStIC^AtII          I19       63 lyr.eons    IS2                 A       3               i t1     i3      36       22      26       25       8                'h n
lltl. DomD' SMLDI1G                270      19 l7r onm    231                  6       3        2       6       13      21       3o      39       50      52                0
Vill. TOT                       17266    3421             33823              i63     640      525     978    1336    1696    .-s    1996    21460   2I0
a1 8.egLaciU   IDC but tmctuding escaltlon bsea dia proJectd damastlc inflatlon



INDIA
HIMACEAL PRADESB STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOHE STATEiENTS
(YEAR ENDING MARCH 31)
(In Rs. MiLlion)
---------------- ACTUAL -------------FORCAST--
1982/83 1983184 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 198919  1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993194 1994195 1995/94
Energy Availability (B'N)
EBPS Generation                            540     587      490     597      614     518      785    1171    1184    1301    1352    1395    1774    2143
Staticn CausumptLon                          2       2        2       2        2       2        4        6       6        6       7        7       9        9
Net Generatlen                             538     585      488     595      612     516      781    1165    1178    1295    1345    1389    1765    2134
Purchases                                   301     405      383      392     527      691     630    1065    1149    1267    1564    1782    1794    2400
Total                                   839      990      871     987    1139    1207    1411    2230    2327    2562    2909    3170    3559    4534
System Losses tX)                          18.1    18.8    21.1    20.3    22.5    24.8    21.4    21.0    19.0    18.5    18.0    17.8    17.6    16.3
Sales of ElectrLeLty (GWh)                  687     804      687     787      883     908    1109    1761    1885    2088    2385    2606    2933    3797
Of which:  within State                     363     395      470      525     680      769     899    1040    1178    1419    1698    2048    2446    2800
Exports                         325     409      217      262     203      139     210      721     707      669     687      558      487     997
Av. Tariff (ps./kwh)                       34.6    35.2    37.7    45.6    58.9    60.9    62.1    67.0    80.5    82.0    89.0    98.0   105.0   115.0
Av. Tariff Lncrease tX)                                2       7       21      29        3       2        8      20        2        9      10        7      10
Avg. Tariff:  WLthin State                 36.6    41.0    40.9    55.4    57.d    60.6    62.0    67.0    80.5    82.0    89.0    98.0   105.0   115.0
Exports                     32.3    29.6    30.9    26.0    62.6    62.6    62.6    67.0    80.5    82.0    89.0    98.0   105.0   115.0
Revenues
Sales of ElectrLeity                        238     283      259      359     520     553      688    1180    1517    1713    2123    2554    3080    4367
Of which:  withln state                     133     162      342     291      393      466     557      697     948    1164    1511    2007    2568    3220
Exports                         105      121      67       68     127       87     131      483     569      549      612     547      511    1147             1
RE Subsidy                                   23        0       0        0     102      112       0      136     149      164      181     199      219       0            F
Central Exclse Duty                          12       9        6       20      16        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0             
Other Revnues                                26      30       22       28      24       25      26       28      29       31       32      34       35      37             1
Total Revenues                              299     322      287     407      662      690     715    1344    1696    1907    2335    2787    3334    4404
Expemses
Cost of Power Purchase                       39      55       53       53     142      237     222      454     487      586     781      941    1025    1234
Employee Salaries                            48      50       56       72      84       91      97      103     109      116     123      130      138     146
Operation & Mainteaance                     103     119      147      158     177      195     214      236     259      285     314      345      379     417
Establisbment & Other Exp.                   14      17       17       16      14       15      26       17      18       19      20       22       23      24
Central Eclseo Duty                          12        9       6       20      16        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0
Depreciation                                  0       0        0       24      33       34      40       97     107      129     162      180     213      395
Total Expenses                              215     250      279      343     466      571     589      907     981    1135    1400    1617    1778    2217
Operatla Incoe                              83      72        8       64     196      119     125      437     714      772     936    1169    1555    2188
Total Interest                               52      63       79     296      385      427     532      632     847      860    1020    1323    1447    1597
Less: IDC Capitalised                         0       0        0        0       0      278     228      290     269      272     343      445     241      399
Adjustment for Prior Period                                           149    -219              703
Net Income                                   31       9      -71      -83    -408      -30    -179       95     136      184     259      291      349     990             d 
Rate of Return (Z)                                                                                                                                                        A 5
-GOI DefinLtion 1/                                                                   -3.4   -16.6      2.9      3.8      4.3     4.7      4.9     4.9      7.0               n
-Bank Guidelines 2/                                                                  11.8      5.6    12.1    16.5    14.1    14.2    15.1    12.8    13.3
-Historical Base 3/                                                                  11.8      5.7    12.7    18.,    15.8    16.3    17.9    14.7    15.3                0 *
Operating Ratio (1) 4,                       72      78       97       84      70       83      82       67      58       60       60      58       53      50              1



INDIA
EIWICBAL PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY bOARD
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALAUCB SlEETS
(AS ON MARCH 31)
---_-.------------_-_-----_----------
(In Re Killion)
----------------ACTUAL -----------------O
Aset.                                 k92183 1983184 1984185 1985186 1986187 1987/88 1988189 1989190 1990191 1991192 1992193 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96
Lied Assets
____________
Gross Fixed Assets in Operation            815     908      954   ll0    1349    1601    3877    4286    5166    6479    7186    8536   15800   16640
Lesst Ae. Depreciation                      79      79       79     103     247      281     321      418     525     654      816     996    1209    1604
BNt Fixed Assets in Operation              736     829     875    1077    1102    1320    3556    3868    4641    5825    6370    7541   14591   15036
Capital Vorks-ln-Frogress                 1239    1610    2169    2753    3447    4122    2598    3457    4183    4837    6309    7389    2513    4432
Total Pixed Assets                        1975    2439    3044    3830    4549    5442    6154    7325    8823   10663   12679   14930   17103   19467
Current Assets
Cash                                         0       0        0      31      51       45      46       67      73      84      103     120      130     152
Inventories                                113     111      186     236     240      264     290      319     351     387      425     468      514     566
Acents.Receivable (electricity)            161     147       82     113     361      353     344      295     253      283     354     426      513     728
Accum. RE Subsidy                           23      23       23      23      624     736
Other Current Assets                       298     277      475     563      710     781     859      945    1040    1143    1258    1384    1522    1674
Total Current Assets                       595     558      766     966    1986    2179    1540    1627    1717    1899    2140    2397    2680    3120
Total Assets                              2570    2997    3810    4796    6535    7621    7693    8952   10540   12562   14819   17327   19784   22587
Equity & Liabilities                                                                                                                                                     0
T%
Equity
Consusmers' Contributions                   90     122      147     149     221      243     267      294     324      356     392     431      474     521
C&pLtal Reserve                              1       1        1       1        1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1
Retnd. Earnings/(Ace. Losses)              -56     -47    -118    -201    -610    -640    -116        -21     116      300     559     850    1200    2189
GOCP Equity                                                                                    0        0       0                0       0        0       0
Total Equity                                35      76       30     -51    -388    -396      153      274     440     657      951    1282    1674    2711
Long Term Debt
GOMP Loan                               1156    1371    1770    2274    2803    3155    3959    4890    6018    7358    8900   10807   12585   14229
Othe,r Loans                             695     819      981    1241    1637    1940    1992    2053    2098    2155    2215    2286    2198    1310
IBRD Loan                                  0       0       0        0       0        0       0       22     110     369      557     572      544     517
Total Long Term Debt                      1851    2190    2751    3515    4440    5095    5951    6965    6226    9882   11672   13665   15327   16056
Staff Superanmiation Fund                   8S     105      133     151     186      214     246      283     325     374      430     495      569     654
Security Deposits                           18      26       31      37      45       52      60       68      79      91      104     12C      138     158
Current Liabilitkes
Accounts Payable                           377     360      500     405     859      902     947      994    1044    1096    1151    1209    1269    1333             2 
Accrued Interest                             9      10       14     198    1156    1439                                                                               cm Q
Other Curr. Li&bLLitLes                    140     140      217     156     209      230     253      278     306      337     370     407      448     493              X
Curr. Mat. of LT Loans                      57      90      134     185      28       85      85       90     120     126      140     150      358    1182
Total Current Liabilities                  583     600      865    1144    2252    2656    1285    1363    1470    1559    1661    1766    2076    3008               0.
Total Equity & Liabilities                2570    2997    3810    4796    6535    7621    7693    8952   10540   12562   14819   17327   19784   22587                o
Debt as X of (Debt4Equity) 5/               98      97       99     101     110      108      97       96      95       94      92       91      90      86
Current Ratio 6/                           1.0     0.9      0.9     0.8     0.9      0.8     1.2      1.2     1.2      1.2     1.3     1.4      1.3     1.0
Accounts Receivable (Months) 7/              8       6        4       4       8        8       6        3       2        2       2        2       2        2



INDIA
HIMACHUAL PRADESH STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
ACTUAL AND FRECAST SODRCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATSDENTS
(YEAR ENDINC KARCE 31)
(In Rs MiLlion)
----------------ACUL-----------------                                         FORECAST
1982183 1983184 1984185 1985166 1986187 1987/88 1988189 1989190 1990191 1991192 1992193 1993/94 1"94/95 1995/96
Soures
Internal Sou ces
CSeratit   IncoT e                          83      72       8       64     196     119      125     437     714     772      936    1169    1555    2188
Depreciation                                 0       0       0       24      33      34       40      97     107     129      162     180     213      395
Total Internal Sources                  83       72       a      88      229     153     166      534     822     902    1098    1349    1769    2583
Adjustment for Prior Period                                         149    -110       0      703       0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Capital Reserves                             0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0
Staff Supereuation Fund                     83      22      28       18      35      28       32      37      42      49       56      65      74       85
Contumers Contribution                      20      32      25        2      72      22      24       27      29      32       36      39      43       47
Security Deposita                           18       8       5        6       8       7       8        9      10      12       14      16      18       21
Borro.vlngs
IRRD Loan                                    0       0       0       0        0       0       0       22      88     259      188      15       0        0
GasP Loan                                  117     215     399      506     529     352      804     931    1128    1340    1542    1907    1778    1644
Other L.ns                                248     214     296      443     4r3     388      137     151     166     182      201     221     243      267
Total Dorrovlngs                           365     429     695      949     954     740     941    1104    1382    1781    1931    2143    2021    1911
Total Sources                              569     563     761    1212    1188      950    1873    1710    2285    2776    3134    3611    3925    4647
Applications
Proposed Project                             0       0       0        0       0       0        0      32     131     410      276      11       0        0
Other Projects                             370     464     605     810      863     648      525     946    1205    1286    1559    1975    2146    2360
IDC Capitalised                             0        0       0       0        0     278     228      290     269     272     343      445     241      399
Total Investment Program                   370     464     605     810      863     926     753    1268    1605    1968    2178    2431    2387    2759
Debt Service
____________
Total Interest                              52      63      79     296      385     427     532      632     847     860    1020    1323    1447    1597
Less: IDC Capitalised                        0       0       0        0       0     278     228      290     269     272      343     445     241      399
Net Interest                   52      63       79     296     385     149      304     342     578      588     677     878    1206    1198
Repa6mlent                                  44      57      90      134     185      28      85       85      90     120      126     140     150      358
Total Debt Service                          96     120     169     430      570     177     389      427     668     708      803    1018    1356    1556
Cbange in Working Capital
VariatLen in Cash                            0       0       0       31      20      -6        1      22       5      11       19      17      11       21
Variatlon other than Cash                  103     -21     -13      -59    -265    -148      730      -7       7      89      133     146     172      310
Net Cairnge in Working Capital            103      -21     -13      -28    -245    -154     731       15      12     100      152     162     182      331
---- -   ----- - -   - ------ .------    ------ --  -------  -------    -------  ------ -.  -----   ---- - ------- -- -----  -- -- -- -
Total Applications                        569      563     761    1212    1188      950    1873    1710    2285    2776    3134    3611    3925    4647
Debt Service Coverage 81                   0.9     0.6     0.0     0.6      0.2     0.3      1.4     0.7     1.2     1.3      1.4     1.3     1.3      1.7          '[I
Centrl. to Invst. Ratio (2) 91            -42       -6     -24     -18      -21     -18     -49      -15       9       5        7       8      10       26          -P.
*                                                               t;~~~~~~~~~~~0



MIA
HIMACHUAL FRDESI STATE ELECSRICITY 4A0tD
FORECAST FIPANCIUL INDICATORS to
(YEAR SDI30 MARCO 31)
-------------------------------------
198718  1988189 1989190 1990191 1991,92 1992193 19"3194 199419n 1995196
tate of Return 1
-COx Deflnition (1)               -3.4   -16.6      2.9     3.6     4.3     4.7      4.9     *.9     7.0
-Bnk Guidelines (2)               11.6      5.6    12.1    16.5    14.1    14.2    15.1    12.8    13.3
-HU toricel Bees  (3)             11.6      5.7    12.7    18.1    15.6    16.3    17.9    14.7    15.3
Operatlng Ratlo X - (4)              63      82      67      56      60       60  58           3       50s
Debt as I of Debt + Equity (5)      108      97      96      95       94      92      91      90       66                                9
Current Ratio (6)                  0.6      1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2      1.3     1.4     1.3     1.0
Accoumts ReceivbLe  - (7)             8       6       3       2       2        2       2       2        2
Nonths
Debt Servlce Coverage (6)          0.3      1.4     0.7     1.2     1.3      1.4     t.3     1.3      1.7
ContrL. to Invest. 2 - (9)          -18     -49     -15       9       5        7       8      10      26
la DefUAltLons are provided in the follawing page.
OQ>
0.
0



-109-                      ANNEX 4,2
Page 6 of 10
HIliCHAI n=SH STATE _     CTRICITY  ARD (HPSEB)
Financial Indicators - Definitions
1. Rate of Return as Rer GOI's Definition
As per .e Act, HPSEB is required to take all necessary actions to
ensure that tot&. revenues in any financial year shall, after meeting (i)
all expenses properly chargeable to revenues, including operating,
maintenance and management expenses; (ii) taxes on income and profits; (iii)
depreciation; and (iv) interest payable on all debentures, bonds and loans;
produce such surplus of not less than 3% or higher as notified by GOHP, of
their respective net fixed assets in service at the beginning of the
financial. For this proposed project, HPSEB shall earn the following
return: 2.9% in FY90; 3.8% in FY91, 4.3% in FY92, 4.7% in FY93, 4.9% in
FY94 and FY95, and 7% thereafter. Critical terms listed above would be
defined as follows:
(a) "total revenues" means revenues from the sale of electricity and
other services, and miscellaneous income, rural electrification
subsidies received from GOHP, state electricity duties received,
and such ither subventions received from GOHP to cover
extraordinary costs which are borne by HPSEB and which should not
reasonably be borne by its customers;
(b) 'expenses" means the cost of rower generated/purchased, fuel,
operating, maintenance, management and administrative expenses, and
all taxes and duties accruing during the financial year, other than
taxes on income and profits;
(c) 'taxes on income and profits" consist of income taxes and other
levies accrued according to the provisions of any applicable
legislation or regulation;
(d) "depreciation" means a provision, based on gross fixed assets in
service at the beginning of the year, derived by using the straight
line method in conjunction with the schedule of useful life of
assets as notified according to provisions of Section 68 of the
Act, on December 12, 1986;
(e) *interest payable on all debentures, bonds and loans" means all
interest (whether paid, deferred or waived), excluding interest
during construction, accrued durinLx the financial year, and all
other charges on debt; and
(f) "net fixed assets in service" means the original cost of fixed
assets reduced by the aggregate of the cumulative depreciation
taken on those assets. For HPSEB, this would be redueed by
consumers' contribution for service lines.



-110-                       AEX 4.2
Page 7 of 10
2.  Rate of Return as per Bank Guidelines.
Numerator: Income after depreciation but before interest.
Denominator:  Average net fixed assets in operation after deducting
accumulated depreciation and net consumers' contributions. A pro-forma
revaluation was made by revaluing assets yearly at the domestic inflation
rate.
3. As Rer Historical Asset Base
Similar to Bank Guidelines except that assets are not revalued,
i.e. based on historical cost.
4. Operating Ratio
Numerator: Operating Expenses
Denominator: Operating Revenues
5.  Debt as ! of Debt + Eguity
Numerator: Long-term debt
Denominator: Long-term Debt plus Total Equity
6. Current Ratio
Numerator: Current Assets
Denominator: Current Liabilities
7. Accounts Receivables as a % of Electricity Sales
Numerator: Accounts Receivables for Electricity Sales
Denominator: Electricity Sales divided by 12 months
8. Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Numerator: Operating Income plus Depreciation
Denominator: Total debt-service (for FY88 to FY90, IDC are
included as per CEA guidelines that provides that up to FY90, IDC be paid
out of SEB's own funds).
9. Contribution to Investments
Numerator: Operating income plus depreciation minus total debt-
service and change in working-capital excluding cash from FY91 and
thereafter. Prior to FY91, an additional item was deducted; interest during
construction (refer to CEA guidelines in item 8).
Denominator: Three year moving average of HPSEB's investment
program: past, current and the following year.



-111-               ~~~ANNEX 4.2  -
Page 8 of 10
Financial Proiections' Assumptions
Price Escalation
1.       Local Inflation is assumed to be 7% in 1988/89 and 6% in each
fiscal year thereafter during the projection period.
2.       Foreign Inflation is assumed to be 4% from 1988/89 through 1985/86.
Foreign Exchange
3.       For the Investment Program and yearly disbursement of the Bank's
loan, the exchange rate between one United States dollars and Indian Rupees
is assumed to be as follows:
Fiscal Year          Rs.            Fiscal Year        Rs.
1992             14.8
1988               13.3             1993             15.1
1989               13.8             1994             15.4
1990               14.2             1995             15.7
1991               14.2             1996             16.0
Income Statement
4.       The amount of generation available for sale is based on HPSEB's
electricity sales forecast as approved by CEA and power purchases from
neighboring states.
5.       Sales revenues are derived from the electricity sales forecast and
by tariff increases which would enable HPSEB to achieve the following rate
of returns calculated in accord with the Electricity Supply Act (1948) as
amended: 2.9% in FY90, 3.8% in FY91, 4.3% in FY92, 4.7% in FY93, 4.9% in
FY94 and FY95, and 7.0% in FY96.
6.       Rural electrification subsidy for compensating the operating cost
of rural electrification is assumed to increase at an annual ra'e of 10%.
RE subsidy is further assumed to be collected beginning in FY90.
7.       Electricity Duty was a tax levied by GOHP and collected by HPSEB,
which was discontinued after FY87.
8.       Other revenues represent income from investments, penalty charges
for the late payment of bills, meter rentals etc and are expected to
increase at about 5% per year during the projection period.
9.       Cost of Power Purchases is based on projected energy purchases
from neighboring states as provided by HPSEB.



112AM=  4.2
-112-                      Page 9 of 10
10.      Employee salaries and fringe benefits are escalated at the rate of
local Inflation. In view of restrictions on hiring new personnel, no new
staff are expected, except in connection with construction of some new
projects.
11.      Operations and Maintenance Costs are escalated at the rate of
about 10% p.a.
12.      Establishment and Other Expenses are expected to ir.crease at the
rate of domestic inflation.
13.      Depreciation is calculated at 2.5% of gross fixed assets in
operation.
14.      Interest on the Bank's loan and loans from GOHP is forecast to be
10.5% per annum. Interest on other loans varies by source (LIC - 13% p.a.,
Market bonds - 9.5% p.a., REC - 7.5%).
Balance Sheet
15.      Gross Fixed Assets and Work in Progress are based on historical
costs and HPSEB's investLment program.
16.      Cash is assumed at ona months operating expenses less
depreciation.
17.      Inventories are estimated to increase at 10% p.a. consistent with
increases in operation and maintenance expenses.
18.      Accounts receivable from electricity sales are assumed to be
maintained at the equivalent of the following months of electricity sales:
6 months in FY89, 3 months in FY90, 2 months in FY91 and thereafter.
19.      Accumulated RE subsidy is assumed to be cleared in FY89 via
HPSEB's financial action plan (para 4.12).
20.      Other current assets and consumer contributions are assumed to
increase 10% p.a.  Capital reserve is assumed to remain unchanged.
21.      GOHP loans are expected to finance the balance of HPSEB's
investment program not finance4 from the combination of internal cash
generation, Bank loan, and other loans.
22.      Staff superannuation fund and security deposits are assumed to
increase by 15% p.a.
23.      Accounts Payable are assumed to increase by 5% p.a.
24.      Accrued interest is assumed to be cleared in FY89 via HPSEB's
financial action plan (para 4.12).
25.      Current maturity of long-term loans is a provision for the
following year loan repayment obligation.



-113-                       ANEX 4,2
Page 10 of 10
Siges.y. and lApDication of Funds
26.      HPSEB's Total Investment Program is based on 1987 cost estimates
and incorporates the Bank's escalation factors for the foreign and local
components.
27.      HPSEB's Debt Service obligations reflect its obligationp to meet
both interest and principal repayments for its borrowings in accordance
with the financial action plan.



INDIA
NATNPA JNAKRI POWER PROJECT
...........................
Electricity Demand and Supp(y - Northern Region
...............................................
1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95   1995/96         1996/97
Installed Capacity as on
March 31, 1987 is 13,462 1/
Capacity additions from
sanctioned/ongoing schemes             1,930      1,411       1,105      1,106         266      1,636       2,027      1,984
Capacity additions during the
year from new schemes:
Nydro (NW)                                                                -          40        315         425        500        750         750             i
Thermal (N)                             -       1So0D        5O0        200         400        685       1,275      1,500      1,250 2/    1,450 2/
Total                                          1,000         500        200         440      1,000       1,700      2,000     2,000        2,200
overall Irstalled Capacity
at the end of year:
hydro (NW)                         5,692       5,944      6,625       7,125      7,295       8,221      9,251      11,201    11,951       12,701
Thermal (NW)                       9,825      11,235      11,755     13,115      14,875     15,295      15,415     15,415    16,665       18,115
Nuclear (NW)                         675         910         910        910         910        910         910        910        910         910
Total                            15,392      17,803     19,408      20,714     21,420      24,056     27,783      31,76?    33,767       35,967
Peak Availability                     8,71$       9,938      11,290     12,405      12,930     14,180      16,067     19,214    20,424       21,754
Peak Demand (NW)                      11,991     13,161      14,474     15,805      17,375     19,069      20,966     23,068    25,270       27,722
Peaking Shortage (NW)                 (3,276)    (3,223)    (3,184)    (3,400)    (4,445)    (4,909)    (4,899)    (3,854)   (4,846)         (5,968)
Energy Requirement (CIh)             59,721      65,525      72,080     78,821      86,493     95f,O4    104,336    114,786   125,861       138,028
Energy Availability (CIh)             53,566     61,169      71,616     83,913      88,574     94,273    104,729    119,611   129,032 2/  142,643 2V
Energy Shortage (OWN)                 (6,155)    C4,356)       (464)     5,092       2,081       (731)        393      4,825      3,171       4,615
I
Source:  CEA, plus Thirteenth Electric Power Survey of India, Deceaber, 1987, CEA.                                                                             Ln
1/ Hydro:  5,583 NW; Thermal:  8.185; and NucLear: 440 MW
2/ Bank estimates at new capacity likely to be installed.



-115-
ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 cif 1 2
INDIA
NATHPA JHAKRI POWER PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
Introduction
1.       As described in chapter 5, the proposed project is an integral part
of the expansion program planned for the Northern Region. Because of this,
the economic analysis has been undertaken principally for the program as a
whole.  However, this program analysis has been supplemented with a project
analysis of the proposed Nathpa Jhakri power station and associated
transmission facilities.  The main assumptions underlying each analysis are
summarized in the sections which follow.
Program Analvsis
2.        This analysis has estimated an economic rate of return on all
investments included in the Northern Region development program between the
financial years 1988/89 and 1996/97. This time-slice corresponds to the
period of implementation of the Nathpa Jhakri power station. Table 1
summarizes the capital costs of this time-slice of investments in
generation, transmission and distribution together with incremental
operating and maintenance costs, fuel costs, incremental giueration and the
economic benefits of incremental sales revenue.
Sble 1:k Cost and Benefit Streams
ceneration Costs   TransmissionlDistribution
(Rs Million)           (Rs Million)                    Benefits
Incre. Ecen.  Net
Caoital Costs           Capital Costs       Fuel Costs  Supply Valu.L/ Benefitsll
Yer   Local FoerLn Total  Qj Local Foreign Total  PM   (Rs M    (N) .     (Rs t.-  'Rs M)
1988189  2564  2668  5232   85  743   1873  2616   52                        -7985
1989190  2661  2770  5431   87  758   1912  2670   53                        -8241
1990191  4739  4932  9671   99  1373   3462  4835   76                       -14681
1991192  5021  5225 10246  177  1455   3668  5123  152                       -15698
1992/93  3835  3992  7827  623  1111   2802  3913  192                       -12585
1993/94  2344  2440  4784  876  679   1713  2392  215                        -7829
1994/95  1316  1370  2686  1075  381    962  1343  229                       -5333
1995196  713   743  1456  1207  207    521  728  236   3128      7441  4390  -2365
1996197  223   232  455  1214   64    163  227  238   7646    16862  9948   168
19"7/2021                1214                     238   7648    30473  17978  8898
OW - Operations and NaLntennce
X Excluding eonsuser surplus.



-116-                           AMEX 5.2
Page 2 of 12
3.       Assumptions.  Capital expenditures and expenditures on operating
and maintenance costs have been converted to economic prices by: (i)
revaluing the imported compone?lts of goods and services procured
domestically as c.i.f. border prices; (ii) valuing unskilled labor at 0.75
of the market wage rate; and (iii) applying the estimated standard
conversion factor, 0.8, to other local costs. Transmission and distribution
capital expenditures have been estimated at 50% of generation expenditure.
4.       Incremental onnual operating and maintenance costs have been
estimated as the following percentages of the value of the capital to which
they relate:  coal-fired generating plant 2.5% p.a.; combined cycle and gas
turbine generating plant 2.5% p.a.; hydroelectric generating plant 1.13%
p.a.; and transmission lines and distribution systems 1.0% p.a.
5.       The average fuel consumption of new coal-fired plant has been
estimated at 0.61 kg/kWh of coal and 15 ml/kWh of oil for combustion
stabiliz.ation.  The economic cost of coal at thte pithead has been estimated
at Rs 131/tonne.  The economic cost of delivering coal to local centre
stations has been estimated at Rs 0.38 per tonne km. The economic cost of
power station fuel oil is estimated at Rs 3,146 per thousand litres. The
economic cost of natural gas for power generation has been estimated as
Rs 1,800/1,000 m3 and the specific consumption of gas-fired plant has been
taken as 0.23 m3/kWh (an average of the consumption of gas turbine and
combined cycle plants).
6.       The 1988/89 to 1996/97 time-slice of investments is assumed to
provide benefits through 2021.  Benefits frem the investments have been
valued as the incremental sales revenues they would facilitate plus a
portion of the consumers' surplus associated with this incremental
consumption.  However, no allowance has been made for any fuel cost savings
at existing plants, nor for any benefits to existing consumers through
improvements in the security or quality of public electricity supplies.
7.       Incremental sales revenues has been valued at a weighted average of
retail tariffs in the Northern Region. The average rate, weighted by
consumer category and by states' levels of consumption, is approximately
Rs 0.81/kWh. The average tariff (i.e. excluding duties) is approximately Rs
0.74/kWh. After application of the standard conversion factor (0.8) to the
weighted average tariff, the equivalent rate of economic benefit is
Rs 0.59/kWh.



-117-                           ANNEX 5,2
Page 3 of 12
Table 2:  Weighted Average Retail Tariffs in the Northern Region
Consumer                       Tariff (Rs/kWh)             Consumptior.
Category                 Rate J/    mmi    Total          Weighbts {}X
Domestic                  76.8       8.1      84.9            16.70
Public Light             67.4        6.6      74.0             0.87
Public Water             71.2        6.6      77.8             2.33
Agriculture               29.3       0.9      30.2            17.59
Industry                 84.7        8.4      93.1            52 59
Transport                 71.2       6.6      77.8             2.35
Commercial               96.7        7.8     104.5             7.56
1J Rates for each consumer category are the average of the rates levied
by the nine members boards of the Northern Region weighted by their
expected energy consumption in 1994/95 (the last year for wh'ch
disaggregated projections are available).
Source: Average Electric Rates and Duties in India, CEA, May, 1988.
2/ Expected proportions of total energy consumption (All-India) in
1994/95 (last year of disaggregated data).
Source: Thirteenth Power Survey of India, CEA, December, 1987.
8.       Benefits - Consumers' Surplus.  Considering as program benefits
only the economic value of incremental sales revenues, the estimated rate
of return of the 1988/89 to 1996/97 time-slice of the Northern Region
investment program is 6.8. However, incremental revenues do not capture
all the economic benefits likely to result from the proposed investments.
In part, this is because the average tariff level (Rs 0.74/kWh) is below
the marginal economic cost of supply. The capital, operating and
maintenance costs shown in Table 1, related to the expected incremental
consumption they will facilitate suggest the average incremental cost of
supply (a suitable approximation for marginal cost in this instance) in the
Northern Region is approximately Rs 1.2/kWh. However, even if the average
tarifr level was equal to marginal cost, consumers would still derive net
benefits (surplus) from their consumption. There are two reasons for this.
First, with a conventional downward sloping demand curve, price is equated
with consumers' willingness-to-pay only for marginal consumption; lower
rates of consumption usually are associated with higher willingness-to-pay.
A price set equal to marginal cost therefore will not capture all of
consumers' willingness-to-pay.  Seco, when supply is constrained (as in
the Northern Region) the marginal cost of public supply is (by definition)
lower than consumers' marginal willingness-to-pay. The existence of
autogeneration facilities (which are relatively costly, compared with
public supply) indicate consumers' willingness-to-pay exceeds the marginal
cost of ppblic supply, at least for some part of consumption.
9.       This analysis has imputed rates for consumers' surplus in a
conservative way. It has been assumed that in addition to the amounts paid
for public supply, consumers would be willing to pay half of the additional



Papge 4 of 12
costs that they would incur through meeting their electricity requirements
tbrough autogeneration. Put another way, this assumption implies that
consumers' demand curve is downward sloping at an angle of 45 degrees. The
implication of this is that consumers have a price elasticity of minus
unity.  In practice, consumers' price elasticities at low levels of
consumption (as in India) are likely to be in the rage -0.1 to -0.4,
implying chat much more than half of consumers would be willing to pay the
costs for autogeneration to pr.serve a supply of electricity.
10.      Estimated costs of autogeneration are summarized in Table 3.
Costs have been estimated separately for large diesel generations (in thef
range 200 kW to 400 kW) as used by medium and large industries, and for
small generators (of about 50 kW capacity) as used in workshops and
commercial undertakings. Assuming 30% machine utilization (typical of
private generating installations), the average cost of autogeneration is
estimated to be approximately Rs 1.25/kWh from a large machine and Rs
1.49/kWh from a small machinte.
Table 3: Estimated Costs of Autogeneration
Costs ner kW of CaRacity (Rs)
1. Fixed Costs                        50 kW Machine      200-400 kW Machine
Purchase Price 1/                      6,000                4,220
Annual Charge 2/                         881                   620
Salaries                                 620                  420
Routine Maintenance                      125                 __
Total Annual Fixed Costs                1625                 112
2. Variable Costs                         Costs per kWh Generated (Rs)
Diesel fuel                             0.50                 0.76
Lubricant                               0.07                 0.06
Total Variable Costs                    0.87                 0-82
3. Average Cost of
Generation (RskWh) 2/                    .4925
I/ C.I.F. price plus handling and installation.
/  Assuming a 15-year life and a 12% discount rate.
i/ Assuming 30% machine utilization.
11.      For agricultural consumers, the costs of replacing public
eleztricity supply have been estimated as the additional cost of providing
irrigation pumping from diesel pumps rather than electric pumps. This
additional cost has been estimated as the increase in price of electricity
that would equate the costs of electric pumping with diesel pumping. Table
4 illustrates the estimation. Assuming pumps are operated for 800 hours
per year (which seems typical for agriculture in the Northern Region),
electricity would have to be priced at about Rs 2.33 per kWh for diesel
pumping to cost the same as electric pumping.



-119-                            ANNEX 5_2
Page 5 of 12
Table 4:  Estimated Costs of Diesel and Electric Pumping
Electric            Diesel
Motor/Engine size (H.P.)                 5.0                 7.0
Pump Lifetime (yrs.)                    15.0                10.0
Pump Capital Cost (Rs)                4,240               10,865
Annual Charge (Rs)                       623               19.22
O0H Costs (Rs)                           943               2,650
Cost of Diesel/hr (Rs)                    -                 5.11
Cost of Diesel p.a. (Rs)                                  4,088
Cost of Electricity/kWh (Rs)           x.xx                  -
Cost of Electricity p.a. (Rs)         2,984 (x.xx)           -
Total Annual Cost (Rs)          1566 + 2984 (x.xx)         8650'
Cost of electricity at which costs of electric pumping are
same as diesel pumping:
Rs x:xx/kWh - (8650 - 1566)/2984
- Rs 2.38/kWh
12.      Table 5 summarizes estimation of the average rate of consumer
surplus in the Northern Region. The estimation assumes that for domestic
consumers, public lighting and commercial consumers, the relevant
comparator is the cost of autogeneration from a small diesel set. For
public water pumping, industry and transport, the relevant comparator is
assumed to be the generating cost of a large diesel set.  For agriculture,
the comparator is assumed as the cost of diesel irrigation pumping. The
weighted average rate at which consumer surplus is estimated to accrue is
Rs 0.39/kWh. Adding the average economic tariff of Rs 0.59/kWh - (para 7)
brings total estimated economic benefits to Rs 0.98/kWh. However, it must
be borne in mind that the estimation of the rate of consumer most probably
is conservative.
iable S: Assumed Rates of Consumers' Surplus
Average     Surplus
Consumer           Consumption     Autogeneration    Tariff        Imputed
Categorv          fihare (%) 1/    Cost (Rs/kWh)      (RskWH)    (Rs/kWh) i/
Domestic             16.70               1.49           0.77         0.36
Public Light          0.87               1.49           0.67         0.41
Public Water          2.33               1.25           0.71         0.27
Agriculture g        17.59               2.38           0.29         1.05
Industry             52.59               1.25           0.85         0.20
Transport             2.35               1.25           0.71         0.27
Commercial            7.56               1.49           0.97         0.26
I   All-India forecast for 1994/95.  Source:  Table 2.
2/  Autogeneration cost is the power cost equating the costs of diesel and
electric pumping.
I/  Surplus imputed is half the difference between the average tariff
and the costs of autogeneration.



-120-                                 2
Page 6 of 12
13.      Economic Analvsis.  Table 6 summarizes estimated net benefit
streams resulting from the 1988/89 to 1996/97 time-slice of Northern Region
investments (and associated operating and maintenance costs) for a variety
of cost and benefit scenarios. Estimated program returns are summarized in
Table 7. For the base case, i.e. as per the assumptions set out in the
paragraphs above, the estimated economic internal rate of return is 14.3%.
The estimated net present value (NPV) (using a 12% discount rate) is
Rs 15,048 million, equivalent to US$1131 million. Sensitivity analyses
show that cost increases of 10% and 20% reduce expected returns from the
program to 12.9% and 11.6% respectively. Similarly, rates of benefits
which are 10% and 20% lower than assumed in the base case reduce the
estimated returns to 12.7% and 11.0% respectively.  In practical terms,
this means that the program as presently specified would be able to
withstand a combined adverse variation of costs and benefits of about 15%
and remain economic (in the sense that the estimated return would exceed
the 12% discount factor). Larger adverse variations of costs and benefits
would require a compensating deferral of marginal projects for the program
to remain economic. As the 15% cost and benefit margin is relatively slim,
there is a reasonablb likelihood that some reoptimization of the program
will take place during implementation. Of course, it is equally likely
that costs and benefits will change in favor of the program. In this case,
no reoptimization would be required. In the event that some plant deferral
is required, the following project analysis provides a good measure of
confidence that Nathpa Jhakri would not be adversely affected; the rate of
return of Nathpa Jhakri is estizated to be significantly higher than the
return on the program as a whole; hence the program contains other projects
with returns lower than that of Nathpa Jhakri and which would be preferred
candidates for deferral.



-121-                                        ANNEX 5.2
Page 7 of 12
Table 6: Not Iemf It Strm
.... ....................
(Ks Nitlirt)
Iltinntation Delys        Bmnef it DeLays
Base     Bnnef Its  Bsef its    Costs      Costs 
Year      Cas         -101       -201      +101       .207      Onw Year   Two Year-  One Year  Two Years
......................................................................................
198869      (7,985)   (7,985)   (7,985)   (8,784)   (9,582)   (3M993)            2,662     (7.985)    (7.985)
1989/90      (8,151)    (8,151)   (8,151)   (8.966)   (9.781)   (8,069)         (5,379)   (8,151)    (8,151)
1990/91    (19,681)  (14,681)  (14,681)  (16,149)  (17,617)   (11,417)    (10,273)   (14,681)    (14,681)
1991/92     (15,696)  (15,698)   (1S,698)   (17,268)  (18,838)  (15,190)    (12.864)   (15,698)   (15,698)
1992/93     (12,555)  (12,555)   (12,535)  (13,811)   (15,066)  (14,127)    (14,312)   (12,555)    (12,555)
1993/94      (7,829)   (7,829)    (7,829)   (8,612)   (9,395)   (1,093)    (12,028)    (7,829)    (7,829)
1994/95      (5,333)   (5,333)   (5,333)   (5,866)   (6,400)   (6,582)          (8,573)   (5,333)    (5,333)
1995/96        537       (192)      (921)      (139)      (814)   (6,045)       (6,640)   (6,755)    (6,755)
1996/97      6,745      5,093      3,440      5,767      4,789       (976)      (7,290)    (2,488)    (9,780)
1997/98     20,784     17,798     14,811     19,876     18.968      7,095       (1,247)    7,44S       (1,80)
1998/99     20,784     17,798     14,811     19,876    18,968    20,784          7,212     20,784       7,445
1999/2021    20,784    17,798     14,811     19,876     18,968     20,784       20,784     20,784      20,784
Table 7: PrLg.am Returns
NPV (at 12%)
Scenario                                 IRR  (1)          Rs Millin             USS Million
Base Case                                  14.3               15048                   1131
Benefits  -10%                             12.7                4663                    351
Benefits  -20%                             11.0              -5,725                   -430
Costs       +108                           12.9                6165                    464
Costs       +20%                           11.6               -2715                   -204
One-year delay in
implementation                          12.5                 3704                   278
Two-year delay in
implementation                          11.1               -6431                   -484
One-year delay in
benefits                                13.3                 8565                   644
Two-year delay in
benefits                                12.4                 2928                   220



-122-                           ANEX 5.2
Page 8 of 12
14.      The sensitivity analyses demonstrate that the present program could
withstand delays in implementation of about 1-1/2 years or delays in
benefits of about 2 years and remain economic. In practice, implementation
delays are invariably associated with cost increases. A more realistic
interpretation is that the program could withstand a delay in implementation
of about one year and a cost increase of about 10%. Such a scenario is not
implausible, though any longer delays (of the whole program) are considered
to be unlikely. On balance, the analyses suggest that the 1988/89 to
1996/97 Northern Region development program as presently specified will
prove economic.
Proiect Analysis
15.      This analysis has estimated the economic rate of return of the
proposed Nathpa Jhakri power station and associated investments in
transmission and distribution. Associated transmission investments have
been identified as the costs of five new transmission lines (between Nathpa
Jhakri and Abdullapur, Kholdam and Bhiwani, Bhiwani and Bawana, Abdullapur
and Bawana, and Nathpa Jhakri and Kholdaiz) and as the costs of four new
substations (at Bawana, Bhiwani, Abdullapur, and Kholdam). The transmission
lines and substations will serve not .nly Nathpa Jhakri, but also the
proposed hydropower projects at Kholdam (600 NW), Karcham-Wangtoo (600 MW)
and Baspa (250 MW). The costs of these investments have been apportioned
between Nathpa Jhakri and the other power stations in relation to their
installed capacity; 51% of these costs (1,500/2,950) therefore have been
allocated to Nathpa Jhakri and are included in the project analysis.
16.      The distribution investments that will be associated with the
generation from Nathpa Jhakri cannot be identified discreetly. These
investments most probably will be located throughout the Northern Region and
cannot be separated from distribution investments related to other new
generation projects in better than an arbitrary way. To circumvent this
difficulty, associated distribution investments have been imputed at a rate
that brings total investments in associated transmission and distribution to
50% of the investment costs of the generating facilities to which they
relate; in this case Nathpa Jhakri. This is the same assumption as used in
the program analysis.
17.      Capital costs and operating and maintenance costs are summarized in
Table 8. Capital cost estimates for the Nathpa Jhakri power station and
associated transmission have been shadow-priced in the same way as program
capital costs (para 3). As noted above, distribution capital costs have
been imputed from the costs of Nathpa Jhakri and associated transmi3sion
costs. Operating and maintenance costs have been included at 1.13% per
annum of station capital costs and 1% per annum of transmission, substation
and distribution capital costs. Benefit estimations assume that: (i) three
of Nathpa Jhakri's units will be commissioned in 1995/96 and that the
station's net generation in that year will be 1,856 GWh (25% of the full
output of the station); the remaining three units will be commissioned in
1996/97 and net generation in that year will be 5569 GWh (75% of full
output); (ii) ar.nual generation in 1997/98 through 2020/21 will be 7,425
GWh; and (iv) technical system losses (i.e. not considering commercial



-123-                            ANNEX 5.2
Page 9 of 12
losses of 6% as in economic terms these are a transfer rather than a loss)
will remain constant at 20% of the station's net generation. To put the
generation from Nathpa Jhakti in perspective, net of technical losses, the
power station will be able to provide electricity supplies to about 1.3
million nev domestic consumers, 132,000 new commercial consumers, 75,500 new
industrial consumers and about 110,000 new agricultural consumers. These
incremental supplies have in the project analysis been valued in the same
way as in the program analysis; that is at the rate of incremental tariff
revenues (shadow-priced) plus a portion of consumers' surplus (para 12).
18.      Estimated net benefit streams from the project and associated
transmission and distribution investments are shown in Table 9 for a variety
of different scenarios. Rate of return estimates together with estimates of
net present value (NPV) (using a 12% discount factor) are shown in Table 10.
The estimated rate of return of the project is 17.0%, producing an NPV of Rs
7,399 million (equivalent to US$556 million). The table shows that rates of
project benefits which are 20% lower and 40% lower reduce the estimated
returns to 14.4% and 11.2% respectively. Similarly, cost increases of 20%
and 40% reduce estimated returns to 14.9% and 13.1%. These results suggest
that the project is able to withstand a combined adverse change in costs and
benefits totalling 35% and still be economic (in the sense of providing a
return in excess of 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital).
19.      Delays in project implementation affect project returns less than
cost increases or lower rates of benefits. This is because in these
sensitivities both costs and benefits are affected adversely, so while
benefits are delayed the net present value of project costs also declines.
The sensitivities examining delayed benefits (with project implementation
otherwise proceeding according to present plans) show sharper effects.
Here, the analysis suggests the project could withstand delays in finalizing
bulk supply contracts with NJPC's customers of about 2-1/2 years and still
remain - albeit only marginally - economic.
20.      The likelihood of costs and benefits changing by more than 40%,
and/or implementation, or the start of operations slipping by more than two
years is considered to be vtry unlikely. Consequently, there are good
prospects that the project will prove economic.



Table 8: Cost and snef It Streom
Mathpa Jhakri Power Station                Transmfsslon & Sthatations                Distribution            Sanefits
(Re Million)                            (Re Mitllon)                       (Re Nillion)
Capital Costs                         Capital Costs                                        Increnental     Economfc           Not
-- - -Oper. &      .--------------------- -   Oper. &   Capital   Oper. &        Supply        Value    aenefft*
Year     Local   Foreign     Total    Naint.      Local   Foreign     Total    Muint.     Costs    Naint.   (t6A)       Re Million) (Is Nillion)
1988/89     536.5       0.0    S36.5        6.1          -         -                              -    -                -            -       -542.6
1989/90     493.5     890.5   1,383.9      21.7        6.0      15.2      21.2       0.2      18.5       0.2            -            -      -1445.7
1990/91     457.9     877.2   1,335.1      36.8       48.3      92.0     140.2       1.6     122.7        1.4           -            -      -1637.8
1991/92     689.2   1,728.7   2,417.9      64.1      143.6    367.2      510.8       6.7     446.1        5.9           -                   -3451.5
1992/93     745.5  1,979.0  2,724.5        94.9      428.6   1,100.8   1,529.4      22.0   1,336.3       19.2           -                   -5726.3
1993/94     623.4   1,7,7.7  2,351.1      121.5      240.1     614.3     854.4      30.6     746.7      26.7            -            -       4131.0
1994/95     258.3     6Z7.8     886.1     131.5       52.5     132.3    184.8       32.4     161.5       28.3                        -      -1424.6
1995/96     133.3     373.1     510.4     137.2          -         -         -      32.4                 28.3     1,485.0      1,455.0        746.7
1996/97         -         -         -     137.2          -         -         -      32.4                28.3      4 450.0      4,366.0      4,168.1
1997/2021         -         -         -     137.2          -         -         -      32.4                 28.3    5:940.0       5,821.0      S,623.1
II'



Tablo 9: Net Benefits Stre
CR. NiLUons)
.............
Ieplementation Oel"ys   Bmnefits Delays
Benefits    Benefits       .osts      Costs  -----.                           ...............
Year     Bae Care      -20X        -40            X         +40X    One Year   Two Years  Ome Year   TWo YOerr
1988/89     (542.60)    (542.60)    (542.60)    (651.10)    (759.60)   (271.30)   (180.90)   (542.60)   (542.60)
1989/90    (1,445.70)  (1,445.70)  (1,445.70)  (1,734.80)  (2,024.00)   (994.20)   (662.80) (1,445.70) (1."5.70)
1990/91    (1,637.80)  (1,637.80)  (1,637.80)  (1,965.40)  '2,292.90) (1,541.80) (1,208.70) (1,637.80) (1,637.80)
1991/92    (3,451.50)  (3,451.50)  (3,451.50)  (4,141.80)  (4,832.10) (2,544.70) (2,178.30) (3,451.50) (3,451.50)
1992/93    (5,726.30)  (5,726.30)  (5,726.30)  (6,871.20)  (8,016.80) (4,589.00) (3,605.10) (5,726.30) (5,726.30)
1993/94    (4,131.00)  (4,131.00)  (4,131.00)  (4,957.20)  (5,783.40) (4,928.00) (4,436.20)  4,131.00  (4,131.00)
1994/95    (1,424.60)  (1,424.60)  (1,424.60)  (1,709.50)  (1,994.40) (2,M.80) (3,760.20) (1,424.60) (1,424.60)
1995/96      74.70       455.70       164.70     605.00      463.80  (1,066.S0) (2,088.00)   (708.30)   (708.30)
1996/97    4,168.10    3,295.10    2,421.90    4,128.80    4,089.2n   1,001.90    (777.00)  1,257.10    (197.90)
1997/98     5,623.10    4,459.10    3,294.90    5,583.80    5,544.20   4,168.10   1,021.00   4,168.10   1,257.10
1998/99    5,623.:0    4,459.10    3,294.90    5,583.80    5,544.20   5,623.10   4,168.10   5,623.10   4,168.10
1999/2021   5,623.10    4,459.10    3,294.90    5,583.80    5,544.20   5,623.10   5,623.10   5,623.10   5,623.10
Iai
I-.I.
O a



-126-                           ANNEX 5.2
Page12 of 12
Table 10: Project Returns
NPV (at 12%)
Scenario                           IRR (%) Rs Million US$ Million
Base Case                             17.0    7,399.0       556.0
---------                ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Benefits -20%                         14.4    3,255.0       245.0
Benefits -40%                         11.2     -889.0       -66.8
Costs +20%                            14.9    4,736.0       356.0
Costs +40%                            13.1    2,071.0       156.0
One year delay in implementation      16.1    5,890.0       443.0
Two years delay in implementation     15.2    4,545.0       342.0
one year delay in benefits            15.3    5,174.0       389.0
Two years delay in benefits           13.9    3,188.0       240.0



-127-
ANNEX 6.1
INDIA
N&THPA JH&KRI POVRE PROJECT
Documents in Prolect File
1.   Identification Report of Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric Project -
Ministry of irrigation and Power - April 1985
2.   Nathpa Jhakri Hydroelectric Project (1,500 MW) - Modified Project
Report - Himachal Pradesh SEB - April 1986
3.   Nathpa Jhakri HydroeLectric Project Optimization of Installed Capacity
- CEA - January 1986



So                     0                           *   IMISIAN   *   loc Locatkon
~~ tee _ _ _ _ * i, Loc ~~~~~~~~~I N    D I A
JAAPAU AND                                                     KFINDI
(              I          JAMMLJ ANDW                         '    '~~"'NATHPA JHAKRI
KASNMW                                     ~~~~~~~HYDROELECTRtIC PROJECT
J      CHAAoBA                                          _                                    Himachal Pradeah TransmiaaIon
,,  CHAMBA   { n   ^   >    I N D I A         Component and Power Plant Location
BAIRA -81UL                 '       __
201MW  ~~~~~~~~~~~.. - ~~~~~~PROPOSE  UNDER                                                 WMIA.NAR
CHAMERA                                                                        - oo we bairn
SATMRI                                                                                         132 kV doucit
LAHAUL AND SPT/                                               PROP    U  N  .            E
ND SPI TI ~~~~~~~~REAMMTOMMMBY B-RON
1 /    <  (   ~r    .pw   400 kV do4fhib circuit
o si;;</\ |5 \*  ~        220 kV dauble ciroit
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
- 220 kV doMeubl cuit
4           -    Powe# houme
\    R.             EXISTINM
..KX I          \                             8N /   KULLU 3............... r , m _ 220 kV doube 4cirit
2        e         ) <,                                                                    \,/DERRA  7-   \ -P \ o-^  Z  132 kV doubl5 crut
.1\,_      L     ASS  26 MW  / INSET AREA   !         -    132 kV b   circuit
-    | _ 6e kV 4hgb cIrcuft
NATHPA JHAKRI          BHABA             *                  Power hua
\ NA&                            10 m                120560                                0 MW Atata@   en capacity
'N   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.-international boUndarlee
%                                                                                             DistrAKKA4\ A \ fic<oWAM > > -   ict boundarle
| .. - /MA}  Stae b-.-arlt
' -   i   ,  o .KUR,IASAIN   1  *b
EBILASPLI>{ :                                                          %--m-^  r  KURt*^W   NATHPA JHAKRI HYDROELECTRIC
SOLAAINf /           7~       ^/              .                           _ _,PROJECT LOCATION
urrTAR PRADESH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAs  4L|. A  
Kae
210   410   so    soq~
SI/   /   X RM    .  KILOMETERS                 ssad                             K
so                                                          Int~~~~~~~~Ralp5~    ake  2
,* - /  i  -    - --  -  -                                   3  PowO. hou       0
>                e        *            *.A~O                 C0  'V o    - e -f  P r__b0_~*Pu -                                 bou . 
HARYANA    7%I                       --/ _                                                              twune q,
_  ;   /   \  K S  -  Road
____________________________________________________                                         _ 7,B__/_ _|C_,_                   _To KVA"d  77fi5.l



