Page  1
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3024 IN
                   (Nathpa Jhakri Power Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 18, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3024 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 18,  1989,  between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the Project will  be carried out by the Nathpa
Jhakri  Power  Corporation  Limited  (the  Corporation)  with  the
Borrower's assistance and, as  part  of  such assistance funds not
less than the equivalent  to  $437,000,000  out of the proceeds of
the  Loan  shall  be  made   available  by  the  Borrower  to  the
Corporation under a Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement to be entered into
between the  Borrower  and  the  Corporation  as  provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  Part B of the Project  will  be carried out by the State
of  Himachal  Pradesh  (Himachal  Pradesh)  through  the  Himachal
Pradesh State Electricity  Board  (the  Board) with the Borrower's
assistance and as part of  such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Himachal Pradesh  an amount equivalent to $43,000,000
out of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (D)  Part C  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Borrower; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in  this  Agreement, in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Corporation, and in
the Himachal Pradesh Agreement  of  even date herewith between the
Bank and Himachal Pradesh.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Himachal Pradesh" means the  State of Himachal Pradesh,
a State of India;
     (b)  "Himachal Pradesh Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Himachal Pradesh  of  even date herewith, as the same
may be amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such term includes all
schedules and  agreements  supplemental  to  the  Himachal Pradesh
Agreement;
     (c)  "Corporation" means the  Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation
Limited, a company registered  under  the  Companies Act, 1956, of
the Borrower;
     (d)  "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the Bank
and the Corporation of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and the Corporation pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "Board" means  the  Himachal  Pradesh  State Electricity
Board established under  the  provisions  of  the Borrower's Elec-
tricity (Supply)  Act,  1948,  as  amended  to  the  date  of this
Agreement;
     (g)  "Displaced Person" means any person, whether land owning
or landless, who would be,  or  has been, involuntarily  displaced
from his or her usual place of residence or work due to the carry-
ing out of the Project;
     (h)  "financial year" or  "FY"  means  the year commencing on
April 1 of each year and ending  on March 31 of the following year
with each financial year being  described  by the year in which it
ends; and
     (i)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
Page  3
ment, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to four hundred
eighty-five million dollars ($485,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required  for  the  Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement and to  be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in the Reserve
Bank of India on  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments  out  of  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative and  financial  practices and shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for Part C of the Project.
Page  4
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
cause Himachal Pradesh and  the  Corporation to perform in accord-
ance with  the  provisions  of  the  Himachal  Pradesh and Project
Agreements all the respective  obligations of Himachal Pradesh and
the Corporation therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary  or  appropriate to enable Himachal
Pradesh and the Corporation to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be  taken  any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  relend an amount not
less than the equivalent of $437,000,000 to the Corporation out of
the proceeds of the Loan, under  a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and the Corporation under terms
and conditions which shall  have  been  approved by the Bank which
shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, include interest at
a rate of not less than  14.50%  per annum on the principal amount
so relent and withdrawn  by  the  Corporation and outstanding from
time to time, and repayment over a period of twenty years, includ-
ing therein a period of grace of five years.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such  manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make available to Himachal Pradesh an
amount equivalent to $43,000,000 out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for devel-
opmental assistance to the States of India.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Part A of the  Project  shall  be  carried  out by the Corporation
pursuant to Section 2.03 of  the Project Agreement, and in respect
of Part B of the  Project,  shall  be  carried out or caused to be
carried out by Himachal  Pradesh  pursuant  to Section 2.04 of the
Himachal Pradesh Agreement.
     Section 3.05. For the  purposes  of carrying out the training
program  under  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  establish  by
June  30,  1989,  a  Training  Unit  in  the  Central  Electricity
Authority and shall  appoint  a  coordinator  therein to implement
said program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part  C  of  the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible for carrying out
Part C of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  for each financial year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and the audit thereof as
               the  Bank  shall  from   time  to  time  reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for  the  financial  year in which the
               last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section for each financial
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
               ing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               financial year,  together  with  the procedures and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can be relied  upon  to  support  the related with-
               drawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall have the Special Account for
each financial year audited  in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing  principles,  consistently  applied  by  independent  auditors
acceptable to the Bank and furnish  to  the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not  later  than six months after the end of
each year the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall,  by June 30, 1989, furnish
to the Bank  a  satisfactory  timetable  of key actions, including
full assessment of the  environmental  impact, for the preparation
Page  6
and implementation of  its  proposed  Northern Region Transmission
Project, and shall implement said  Project in accordance with such
timetable.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Himachal Pradesh or the Corporation shall have failed to
perform any  of  its  respective  obligations  under  the Himachal
Pradesh Agreement or the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Himachal Pradesh or the
Corporation will be  able  to  perform  its respective obligations
under the Himachal Pradesh Agreement or the Project Agreement.
     (c)  A change shall  have  been  made  in  the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the  Corporation amended to the date of
this Agreement, without the consent of the Bank, which would mate-
rially and adversely affect  the financial condition or operations
of the Corporation.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Board  or  the  Corporation  or  for the suspension of
their operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that  the  Himachal  Pradesh  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by Himachal  Pradesh and is legally binding
upon Himachal Pradesh in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by the Corporation, and  is legally binding upon the Cor-
poration in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  the  Corporation and is
legally binding upon the  Borrower  and the Corporation in accord-
ance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
Page  7
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By  /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a) for Part A of       230,000,000       $200,000,000 at 65%
         the Project                           and balance at 20%
     (b) for Part B of         3,500,000       60%
         the Project
     (c) for Part C of           500,000       60%
         the Project
(2)  Equipment and
     materials:
     (a) for Part A of       185,000,000       60%
         the Project
     (b) for Part B(i)        30,000,000 )
         of the Project                  )
                                         )     100% of foreign
     (c) remainder of          3,000,000 )     expenditures, and
         Part B of the                   )     100% of local ex-
         Project                         )     penditures (ex-
                                         )     factory cost)
     (d) for Part C of         1,000,000 )
         the Project                     )
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'
     services and
     training:
     (a) for Part A of         4,000,000 )
         the Project                     )
                                         )
     (b) for Part B of         1,000,000 )     100%
         the Project                     )
                                         )
     (c) for Part C of         2,000,000 )
         the Project                     )
(4)  Unallocated              25,000,000
                             ___________
          TOTAL             485,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
Page  9
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made for expen-
ditures: (i) prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement; and (ii) in
respect of Category (2)  (b)  until  the  clearance referred to in
Section 2.06 of the Himachal  Pradesh Agreement has been obtained,
except that withdrawals, in an  aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be  made  in respect of Category (3)
on account of payments made  for expenditures before that date but
after April 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (i) increase the power
capacity in the Northern Region  of  India; (ii) improve the reli-
ability of power  supply  in  Himachal  Pradesh and strengthen the
operational performance  of  the  Board;  and  (iii) modernize and
strengthen the technical  capabilities  of government institutions
in the power sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   The Corporation
     The construction of Nathpa Jhakri power station including:
          (i)  a 60 m high and  155  m long gravity dam across the
               Sutlej River, and  intake and underground desilting
               chambers;
         (ii)  about 30 km long  head-race  tunnel,  about 10 m in
               diameter with a maximum capacity of 405 m3/s;
        (iii)  a 130 m deep and 25 m in diameter surge tank;
         (iv)  three steel lined  pressure  shafts  650 m long and
               6.0 m in  diameter,  bifurcating  at the downstream
               end into 60 m long 4.0 m in diameter branches;
          (v)  an underground power  house, transformer cavern and
               switchyard for  6x250  MW  generating  units  for a
               nominal head of 468 m and ancillary equipment;
         (vi)  a 280 m long, 10  m wide arch-type tail race tunnel
               discharging back in the Sutlej River; and
        (vii)  the utilization  of  consultant's  services for the
               design and  supervision  of  construction for works
               under Part A above.
Part B:   The Board
          (i)  The construction of about  500  km of 132 kV trans-
               mission lines and associated substations, totalling
               about 184 MVA, to  expand  and reinforce the trans-
               mission system in Himachal Pradesh, including tools
               and transport  equipment  for construction, inspec-
               tion and maintenance of the system.
         (ii)  The installation of  a  communication  system and a
               state load dispatch facility for control and opera-
               tion of the Himachal Pradesh power system.
Page  10
        (iii)  The preparation of a  10 year transmission plan for
               the Board.
         (iv)  The preparation and implementation of an Accounting
               and Management  Information  Study  and  an Utility
               Management   Study   to   streamline   the  Board's
               operations.
          (v)  The implementation of  a resettlement and rehabili-
               tation program for the Displaced Persons.
         (vi)  The  implementation  of  a   plan  to  protect  the
               environment in the area covered by the Project.
        (vii)  The utilization of  consultancy services for carry-
               ing out Part B of the Project.
Part C:   The Borrower
     The implementation of  a  training  program to strengthen the
capabilities of  the  Central  Electricity  Authority, the Central
Water Commission, and other  selected  agencies of the Borrower to
plan, design and manage  hydropower projects and associated works,
including  the  acquisition   of  specialized  office  engineering
equipment, technical literature,  computer  hardware and software,
office  space  to  install  such  facilities,  and  utilization of
consultants' services.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                     (Expressed in dollars)*
     October 1, 1994                             8,950,000
     April 1, 1995                               9,290,000
     October 1, 1995                             9,640,000
     April 1, 1996                              10,005,000
     October 1, 1996                            10,385,000
     April 1, 1997                              10,780,000
     October 1, 1997                            11,190,000
     April 1, 1998                              11,615,000
     October 1, 1998                            12,055,000
     April 1, 1999                              12,510,000
     October 1, 1999                            12,985,000
     April 1, 2000                              13,480,000
     October 1, 2000                            13,990,000
     April 1, 2001                              14,520,000
     October 1, 2001                            15,075,000
     April 1, 2002                              15,645,000
     October 1, 2002                            16,240,000
     April 1, 2003                              16,855,000
     October 1, 2003                            17,495,000
     April 1, 2004                              18,160,000
     October 1, 2004                            18,845,000
     April 1, 2005                              19,565,000
     October 1, 2005                            20,305,000
     April 1, 2006                              21,075,000
     October 1, 2006                            21,875,000
     April 1, 2007                              22,705,000
     October 1, 2007                            23,565,000
     April 1, 2008                              24,460,000
     October 1, 2008                            25,390,000
     April 1, 2009                              26,350,000
Page  11
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $35,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Page  12
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligi-
ble expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion. Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the remain-
ing unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  allocated  to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly  upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as  the  Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Page  13
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
