Page  1
                                            LOAN NUMBER 3024 IN
                   (Nathpa Jhakri Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              NATHPA JHAKRI POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                        Dated May 18, 1989
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the  Bank) and NATHPA JHAKRI POWER
CORPORATION LIMITED (the Corporation), a company established under
the Companies Act, 1956, of the Borrower.
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to four hundred eighty-
five million dollars ($485,000,000),  on  the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan  Agreement,  but  only on condition that the
Corporation agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and the  Corporation, part of the proceeds of
the Loan  provided  for  under  the  Loan  Agreement  will be made
available to the Corporation on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Corporation,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. The Corporation  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public
utility practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  the  Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Corporation shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to  insurance,  use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in  respect  of the Project Agree-
ment and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  The  Corporation  shall  duly  perform all its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Bank shall otherwise  agree,  the  Corporation  shall  not take or
concur in any  action  which  would  have  the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) The  Corporation  shall,  at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the  Bank with regard to progress of
the Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The Corporation shall  promptly  inform  the Bank of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the  performance  by  the  Corporation of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. The Corporation shall,  not later than June 30,
1989, issue a letter of intent to the consultants selected for the
detailed design and supervision of  construction in respect of the
power station to be constructed  under  Part A of the Project, and
shall, within 60 days thereafter, conclude the appointment of said
consultants.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations
                        of the Corporation
     Section 3.01. The Corporation  shall  carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. The Corporation shall  at all times operate and
Page  3
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 3.03. The  Corporation  shall  take  out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. Without  limiting  the  generality of the fore-
going provisions  of  this  Article,  the  Corporation shall under
arrangements satisfactory to the  Bank  cause the dams and related
structures constructed under Part A  of the Project to be periodi-
cally inspected in accordance  with  sound engineering practice in
order to  determine  whether  there  are  any  deficiencies in the
condition of such structures,  or  in  the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or  methods  of  operations  of  the  same,  which may
endanger their safety. To this  end, the Corporation shall propose
to the Bank  appropriate  arrangements  for  the  Bank's review no
later  than  one  year  before  the  expected  completion  of such
structures.
     Section  3.05.  (a)   The   Corporation   shall,  during  the
implementation of the Project,  maintain  a Panel of Experts under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  In order  to  facilitate  recruitment  of  temporary and
permanent members of the  Panel  of Experts, the Corporation shall
maintain a roster of specialists in different disciplines. To that
end, the Corporation shall furnish  to  the  Bank by June 30, 1989
for its comments the proposed roster and the qualifications of the
candidates.
     Section  3.06.  The  Corporation  shall  establish  a Project
Design and  Supervision  Unit  comprising  staff  from the Central
Electricity  Authority,   the   Central   Water   Commission,  the
Geological Survey of India,  the  Board and consultants as needed.
The organization chart,  description  of  the duties, staffing and
responsibilities in the Unit  shall  be  furnished to the Bank for
its review by June 30, 1989.
     Section 3.07. The Corporation shall  furnish each year to the
Bank for  its  review  an  updated  five  year investment program,
commencing  financial  year  1990/91,   and  shall  not  undertake
additional investments not included  in  said  plan as agreed with
the Bank which in the  Bank's  opinion would be detrimental to the
financial viability of the Corporation.
     Section 3.08. The Corporation shall:
          (i)  carry  out,  by  December  31,  1990,  on  terms of
               reference satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  a  study to
               establish the price  of  electricity  to be sold by
               the Corporation;
         (ii)  furnish  to  the  Bank  a  detailed  report  on the
               findings of said study for comment by the Bank; and
        (iii)  establish by March 31, 1994, bulk supply contracts,
               incorporating   therein   (A)   appropriate  tariff
               structures  based  on,  inter  alia,  the  criteria
               mutually  agreed  upon  between  the  Bank  and the
               Corporation established on the basis of findings of
               said study, with State Electricity Boards and other
               major purchasers of power to be generated under the
               Project; and  (B)  the  requirement that purchasers
               under such contracts shall at all times maintain an
               irrevocable letter of  credit  payable on demand to
               the Corporation, in  an  amount equivalent at least
               to one  month's  average  consumption estimated for
               the following financial year.
Page  4
     Section 3.09. The  Corporation  shall,  prior to implementing
any substantial changes in its  organizational structure or in the
organization of its  in-field  Project Implementation Unit, afford
the Bank an opportunity to comment on such changes.
     Section 3.10. The Corporation  shall  furnish  to the Bank by
June 30,  1989,  a  staffing  plan,  including  qualifications and
timetable for appointments to key positions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Corporation shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Corporation shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related  statements)  for  each  financial year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a)  The  Corporation  shall  take from time to
time  all  such  measures  as   may  be  necessary  including,  if
necessary, adjustment of tariffs of the Corporation to ensure that
the total revenues  in  any  financial  year shall, after meeting:
(i)  all  expenses  properly  chargeable  to  revenues,  including
operating, maintenance  and  management  expenses;  (ii)  taxes on
income and profits; and  (iii)  depreciation; produce such surplus
before interest as is not  less  than 6% in financial year 1997/98
and 12%  thereafter,  of  the  average  net  fixed  assets  of the
Corporation in service at  the  beginning  and  at the end of such
year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "total revenues" means  revenues of the Corporation
               from the sale  of  electricity  and other services,
               miscellaneous income, and subventions in respect of
               extraordinary  costs   which   are   borne  by  the
               Corporation  and  which   are   not  passed  on  to
               customers of the Corporation;
         (ii)  "expenses" means the cost of power purchased, fuel,
               operating, maintenance,  management and administra-
               tive expenses, and  all  taxes  and duties accruing
               during the  financial  year,  other  than  taxes on
               income and profits of the Corporation;
        (iii)  "taxes on income  and  profits"  consists of income
               taxes and other  levies  accrued by the Corporation
               according to the  provisions  of any legislation or
               regulation applicable in this respect;
Page  5
         (iv)  "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accor-
               dance with the  straight-line  method  based on the
               useful  life  of   assets   as  stipulated  in  the
               Borrower's notification G.S.R.  No.  1330 (E) dated
               December 12, 1986,  issued  under the provisions of
               Section 68 of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, of
               the Borrower,  based  on  the  gross  value  of the
               Corporation's  fixed  assets   in  service  at  the
               beginning of each year; and
          (v)  "net fixed assets  of  the  Corporation in service"
               means the original  cost  of  such fixed assets, as
               reduced  by   the   aggregate   of  the  cumulative
               depreciation in respect of such assets.
     Section 4.03. The Corporation  shall  furnish  to the Bank by
December 31 each year  a  report  of the Corporation's forecast of
operational  and  financial  performance   for  the  ensuing  five
financial years. Commencing December  31, 1996, such reports shall
specify the actions that  will  be  taken to ensure fulfillment of
the requirements of Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Corporation thereunder  shall  terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Corporation thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Corporation:
Page  6
          Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation Limited
          Kumar House
          Shimla, Himachal Pradesh
          India
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Corporation may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such  other  person  or persons as the Corporation
shall designate in writing,  and  the Corporation shall furnish to
the  Bank   sufficient   evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    NATHPA JHAKRI POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  a  margin  of preference to domestic
contractors may be granted in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and para-
graph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  7
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for  survey  equipment,  laboratory instruments and
equipment, office engineering equipment, and computer hardware and
software, upto an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotation solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000,000 each or less may  be  awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding  advertised  locally  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works and equip-
ment  estimated  to  cost   the   equivalent  of  $10,000,000  and
$1,000,000 each or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  together with the other informa-
tion required to be furnished  to  the Bank pursuant to said para-
graph 2 (d) shall be furnished to  the Bank prior to the making of
the first payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to  the  Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Corporation and the Board in carrying
out the Project, consultants  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank shall be  employed.  Such  consultants  shall  be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
