Page  1
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3024 IN
                   (Nathpa Jhakri Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
                        Dated May 18, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3024 IN
                    HIMACHAL PRADESH AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and STATE OF HIMACHAL
PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Himachal Pradesh).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between India, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to four hundred eighty-
five million dollars ($485,000,000),  on  the terms and conditions
set forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on condition that
Himachal Pradesh agree  to  undertake  such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  Part A of the Project will  be carried out by the Nathpa
Jhakri  Power  Corporation  Limited  (the  Corporation),  with the
Borrower's and Himachal Pradesh's assistance  and, as part of such
assistance, an amount not less than the equivalent to $437,000,000
out of the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  provided  for  under the Loan
Agreement will be relent by the Borrower to the Corporation;
     (C)  Part B of the  Project  will  be carried out by Himachal
Pradesh through the Himachal  Pradesh State Electricity Board (the
Board)  with  the  Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of such
assistance,  an  amount  equivalent  to  $43,000,000  out  of  the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to Himachal  Pradesh  by the Borrower for relending
to the Board; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS Himachal  Pradesh,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Himachal Pradesh declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall cause the Board to carry
out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices,  and  shall  provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations  under  this  Agreement,  Himachal Pradesh shall
cause the Corporation to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement  all  the  obligations of the Corporation
therein set forth, shall  take  or  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate  to  enable the Corporation to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     Section  2.02.  Himachal  Pradesh   shall  relend  an  amount
equivalent to $43,000,000 to the Board  out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available  by  the  Borrower  to Himachal Pradesh, under
terms and conditions which shall  have  been approved by the Bank,
which shall,  except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise agree, include
interest at a  rate  of  not  less  than  10.5%  per  annum on the
principal  amount  so  relent  and  withdrawn  by  the  Board  and
outstanding from time  to  time,  and  repayment  over a period of
twenty years, including therein a period of grace of five years.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by  the  provisions  of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. Himachal Pradesh shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the  obligations  set  forth  in  Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09  of  the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of  the  Himachal  Pradesh  Agreement  and  Part  B of the
Project.
     Section 2.05. (a) Himachal  Pradesh  shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the  Bank with regard to progress of
the  Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Himachal Pradesh shall promptly  inform  the Bank of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part  B  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
Page  3
purposes of the Loan,  or  the  performance by Himachal Pradesh of
its obligations under this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Himachal Pradesh shall cause the Board to apply
by June 30, 1989, to the appropriate authorities for the clearance
under the Forests  (Conservation)  Act,  1980  of  the Borrower in
respect of the construction  of  transmission lines and associated
substations under the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of the Board
     Section 3.01.  Himachal  Pradesh  shall  cause  the Board to:
(i) carry on its operations  and conduct its affairs in accordance
with  sound  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public
utility  practices  under   the   supervision   of  qualified  and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers;  (ii)  at  all  times  operate  and  maintain  its plant,
machinery, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs  and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices;  and  (iii)  take  out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.02. Himachal Pradesh shall, not later than December
31, 1989, furnish to  the  Bank  for  its  review and comment, the
recommendations arising from  the  utility  management study to be
carried  out  under  Part  B  (iv)  of  the  Project,  including a
timetable  for   implementation   of   such  recommendations,  and
thereafter,  shall   implement   the   agreed  recommendations  in
accordance with the timetable agreed with the Bank.
     Section  3.03.  Himachal   Pradesh   shall,  not  later  than
September 30, 1989, furnish  to  the  Bank  for its comment a five
year staffing plan and training  program  in respect of the Board,
and shall, thereafter,  implement  said  plan  and  the program as
agreed with the Bank in accordance with an agreed timetable.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. Himachal Pradesh shall cause the Board to:
     (a)  maintain records  and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition;
     (b)  have  its  records,  accounts  and  financial statements
(balance sheets, statements  of  income  and  expenses and related
statements) for each  financial  year  audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles  consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (c)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as  available, but in any
case not later than nine months  after  the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its  financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (ii) the report  of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such  detail  as  the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
     (d)  furnish to the  Bank  such  other information concerning
said records, accounts  and  financial  statements  as well as the
audit thereof, as  the  Bank  shall  from  time to time reasonably
request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Himachal  Pradesh  shall cause the Board to
take from time  to  time  all  such  measures  as may be necessary
including, if necessary,  adjustment  of  tariffs  of the Board to
Page  4
ensure that the total revenues  in any financial year shall, after
meeting:  (i)  all  expenses   properly  chargeable  to  revenues,
including operating,  maintenance  and  management  expenses; (ii)
taxes on income and profits; (iii) depreciation; and (iv) interest
payable on all debentures,  bonds  and loans; produce such surplus
as is not less than 2.9% in FY  90,  3.8% in FY 91, 4.3% in FY 92,
4.7% in FY 93, 4.9% in FY 94  and FY 95, and 7% thereafter, of the
net fixed assets of the Board  in service at the beginning of such
year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "total revenues" means  revenues  of the Board from
               the sale of electricity and other services, miscel-
               laneous  income,  rural  electrification  subsidies
               received from  Himachal  Pradesh, state electricity
               duties  received,  and  such  other  subventions as
               shall be  made  in  respect  of extraordinary costs
               which are borne by  the  Board and which should not
               reasonably be borne by customers of the Board;
         (ii)  "expenses" means  the  cost  of  power generated as
               well as  purchased,  fuel,  operating, maintenance,
               management  and  administrative  expenses,  and all
               taxes  and  duties  accruing  during  the financial
               year, other than taxes on income and profits of the
               Board;
        (iii)  "taxes on income  and  profits"  consists of income
               taxes  and  other  levies   accrued  by  the  Board
               according to the  provisions  of any legislation or
               regulation applicable in this respect;
         (iv)  "depreciation" means a  provision derived in accor-
               dance with the  straight-line  method  based on the
               useful life of  assets  as  stipulated  in the Bor-
               rower's  notification  G.S.R.  No.  1330  (E) dated
               December 12, 1986,  issued  under the provisions of
               Section 68 of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, of
               the Borrower,  based  on  the  gross  value  of the
               Board's fixed assets in service at the beginning of
               each year;
          (v)  "interest  payable  on  all  debentures,  bonds and
               loans"  means  all   interest,  excluding  interest
               during construction,  accrued  by  the Board during
               the financial year and  all  other charges on debt;
               and
         (vi)  "net fixed assets of  the  Board in service" means:
               (A) the  original  cost  of  such  fixed assets, as
               reduced  by   the   aggregate   of  the  cumulative
               depreciation in respect  of  such assets, less, and
               (B) consumers' contribution for service lines, also
               reduced  by   the   aggregate   of  the  cumulative
               depreciation in  respect  of  such  portion  of the
               service lines  as  has  been  financed  by consumer
               contributions.
     Section 4.03.  Himachal  Pradesh  shall  cause  the  Board to
furnish to the Bank by December  31  each year (i) an updated five
year investment plan; and (ii) a report of the Board's forecast of
operational  and  financial  performance   for  the  ensuing  five
financial years  specifying  the  actions  that  will  be taken to
ensure fulfillment of  the  requirements  of  Section 4.02 of this
Agreement.
     Section 4.04. Without limiting the generality of Section 4.02
of this Agreement,  Himachal  Pradesh  shall,  and shall cause the
Board to, implement the Action  Plan  set forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement.
Page  5
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Himachal Pradesh thereunder  shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms,  and  the  Bank  shall  promptly  notify  Himachal  Pradesh
thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Himachal Pradesh:
          Secretary to the Government
            of Himachal Pradesh
          Department of Multipurpose Projects and Power
          Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, India
          Cable address:
               HIMPOWER
               Shimla
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Himachal  Pradesh  may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Himachal Pradesh or such other
person or persons as Himachal  Pradesh shall designate in writing,
and Himachal Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the  authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
Page  6
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                            Action Plan
1.   Himachal Pradesh shall, prior  to  March  31, 1989, write off
payments due from the  Board    to  Himachal Pradesh on account of
interest charges due as  of  March  31,  1988  in respect of loans
provided to the Board by Himachal Pradesh.
2.   (a)  Himachal Pradesh shall modify the  terms of all loans to
the Board by Himachal Pradesh outstanding  as of March 31, 1988 to
conform to the following: (i)  no repayment of principal; and (ii)
interest rate of 10.5% per annum.
     (b)  All loans, except proceeds of any loan made by the Bank,
provided to the Board by  Himachal  Pradesh during FY 1989 through
FY 1995 shall include  the  following  terms:  (i) no repayment of
principal; (ii) interest rate of 10.5% per annum.
     (c)  All loans, except proceeds of any loan made by the Bank,
provided to the  Board  by  Himachal  Pradesh  during  FY 1996 and
thereafter shall include the following terms: (i) repayment period
of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years; and (ii) interest
rate of 10.5%.
3.   (a)  Himachal Pradesh shall,  in  each FY1990 through FY1995,
pay to the Board, no  later  than  the  close of each said FY, the
full  amount  payable   to   the   Board   on   account  of  rural
electrification subsidies.
     (b)  Himachal Pradesh shall cause the  Board to write off the
claims of the Board to  payments  due  to  the Board on account of
rural electrification subsidies for the period ending FY 1988.
4.   Himachal Pradesh  shall,  commencing  financial year 1988/89,
cause the Board to  maintain  its accounts receivable with respect
to electricity sales at  no  more  than six months average monthly
sales of electricity in  FY89,  three months average monthly sales
of electricity in FY90  and  two  months  average monthly sales of
electricity in FY91 and thereafter.
5.   Himachal Pradesh shall provide  additional loans to the Board
as necessary to fully fund the financing gap of the Board's budget
in FY 1989 and FY 1990.
Page  7
