Report No. PIC935
Project Name              Philippines-Early Childhood Development Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Population, Health & Nutrition
Project ID                PHPA4566
Borrower                  Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agencies     Department of Health
San Lazaro Compound, Rizal Avenue,
Sta. Cruz, Manila, Philippines
Tel: 632-711-6080
Fax: 632-711-6665
Department of Social Welfare and Development
Batasan Pambasa Complex, Constitution Hills,
Quezon City, Philippines
Tel: 632-823-8939
Fax: 632-823-8937
Environmental Category    C
Date PID Prepared         May 3, 1996
Projected Appraisal       September 16, 1996
Projected Board Date      February 18,1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Government-financed child health, malnutrition and early
education programs are already well-established in the Philippines.
Of these programs, the child health program has been relatively
successful and still has much potential that could be realized. The
others have all achieved some degree of success, though they still
require further development. However all suffer from chronic
underfunding in terms of inadequate equipment, numbers of field-level
staff and other operating expenses. This is worsening under the
effects of devolution, since Local Government Units (LGUs) generally
do not understand the importance of these programs or accord them high
priority.
2.   Though precise data are hard to find, because management
information systems are deteriorating through lack of LGU interest and
capacity to maintain them, signs of adverse trends in early child
development programs are already appearing. For example, immunization
rates are said to be falling, food supplementation programs are being
halted following the withdrawal by USAID of PL480 supplies, and LGUs
are defaulting on funding for vital field health staff who were or are
to be hired under cost-sharing arrangements in Bank health projects.
Upgrading and fine-tuning of these child health, nutrition and early
education programs, with heavy targeting of poor and disadvantaged
children, appears the best and most cost-effective strategy for
putting the Philippines back on track in terms of early child welfare
indicators and subsequent educational performance.



Objectives
3.   The objectives of this project would be to assist the Government
of the Philippines to: (a) improve the health, nutritional,
educational and psycho-social developmental status of pre-school
children; (b) improve parents' capacity to understand the needs of
their children and take action to meet them; (c) improve the capacity
of communities, local governments and NGOs to plan, manage and finance
child development interventions in an integrated manner, and (d)
improve the capacity of central government departments responsible for
child development to support local governments and NGOs in the
planning, management, financing, monitoring and evaluation of early
childhood development (ECD) programs.
Description
4.   To accomplish these objectives, the project will support a part
of the Government overall ECD program and would consist of the
following components:
Service Delivery: to strengthen the coverage and quality of the
following devolved programs (central support departments
shown in parentheses): (i) child health (Department of
Health--DOH), (ii) child nutrition (DOH, Department of
Social Welfare and Development--DSWD, National Nutrition
Council--NNC), and (iii) pre-school and parent effectiveness
programs (DSWD), with support for reorienting their design,
targeting and implementation strategies as necessary.
Institutional Strengthening: to strengthen the capacity of local
governments to plan and manage child development programs
through provision of training and technical assistance from
central government. This component would also strengthen
the capacity of DOH and DSWD to carry out the institutional
development function, and the capacity of the Council for
the Welfare of Children and NNC to provide policy
development, coordination and evaluation support.
Community Partnership: to expand the existing network of
community/NGO/local government partnerships to do more in
child development.
Research and Evaluation: to finance baseline and evaluation
studies and operations research.
Financing
5.   The size of the national ECD program is still uncertain.    The ECD
sector report costed the 6-year program out at around US$350 million,
or US$50-60 million annually. Costs for the Bank-assisted project
would be at least US$80 million with an IBRD proposed loan amount of
US$40 million. Cofinancing to cover the financing gap as well as
technical support would be sought from multilateral and bilateral
agencies, including ADB, UNICEF and WHO.
Project Implementation
6.   Since the services to be strengthened under the project have been
- 2-



devolved to local governments, they would be the main implementing
agencies. Project funds for service delivery would be channeled to them
and to NGOs involved in the project by the central government, for
agreed activities. The DOH and DSWD would play a support role,
providing training, technical assistance and monitoring support; project
funds for central-level support activities would be channeled to them.
The project would be implemented over six years.
Sustainability
7.   An analysis of the affordability and sustainability of the
strengthened ECD programs is being done as part of the ADB-financed
preparation effort. Preliminary results indicate that they will be very
affordable and easily sustainable out of domestic resources after
completion of the investment program and project. More information is
however needed on the capacities and attitudes of LGUs. Additional
field studies on this topic are planned over the next few months.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.   The Bank is supporting three health/nutrition projects in
Philippines at present: The Philippines Health Development Project
(PHDP), the Urban Health and Nutrition Project (UHNP), and the Women's
Health and Safe Motherhood Project (WHSMP). The Bank has also supported
two primary education projects in the Philippines, of which the first
was a sector loan with a policy and program reform agenda, and the
second was structured as a budget support operation with some investment
in infrastructure and no project management unit.
9.   On the health side, where project objectives have been relatively
straightforward and no major policy reforms attempted, objectives are
being satisfactorily met and no major failures have yet occurred. On
the education side, where policy goals were ambitious and far-reaching,
little policy and program reform was actually achieved.
10. Overall experience in these projects shows that the central
agencies have proved to be capable of implementing projects in these
areas, but they have required attentive supervision to ensure that
sufficient time and energy is devoted to project management.
Ambitious policy and program reforms have not proved to be achievable.
Lessons for future projects are that: 1) projects should be
structured to build upon and strengthen existing programs and
interventions, with realistically-scaled degrees of change and reform;
2) project management systems must be carefully designed to maximize
attention to day-to-day implementation needs; and 3) LGUs must be
strengthened and fully integrated into project design and
implementation arrangements.
Poverty Category
11. The project would fall under the Program of Targeted
Interventions, being targeted to poor families, communities and
provinces.
Environmental Aspects
-3-



12. An environmental ranking of 'C' has been assigned to the Project.
There are no resettlement issues. The special needs of indigenous
peoples have been incorporated into the consultation process described
below and would be covered under special targeting arrangements.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



