Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17176-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC
OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
EARLY CILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 27, 1998
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February, 1998)
Currency Unit     =   Philippine Pesos (P)
US$1.00 =     () 36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   Asian Development Bank                        GDP      Gross Domestic Product
AGDB  Authorized Government Depository Bank         GNP      Gross National Product
ARI   Acute Respiratory Infections                  KAP      Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (Surveys)
ARMM Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao           LGU      Local Government Unit
BHW   Barangay Health Worker                        MDF      Municipal Development Fund
BLGF  Bureau of Local Govermment Finance, DOF       MIS      Management Information System
BNS   Barangay Nutritional Scholar                  MOA    Memorandum of Agreement
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                   NCB      National Competitive Bidding
CARI  Control of Acute Respiratory infections       NEDA    National Economic and Development Authority
CBA   Cost Benefit Analysis                         NG       National Government
CBRM  Community-Based Resource Management           NGO      Non-Govemmental Organization
CDD   Control of Diarrheal Disease                  NNC      National. Nutrition Council
CEA   Cost Effectiveness Analysis                   NPV      Net Present Value
CDW   Child Development Worker                      OLS      Ordinary Least Squares
COA   Commission on Audit                           ORT      Oral Rehiydration Therapy
CWC   Council for the Welfare of Children           PBAC    Prequalilication Bids and Awards Committee
DCM   Day Care Mother                               PEM      Protein-Energy Malnutrition
DCW   Day Care Worker                               PES      Parent Effectiveness Service
DECS  Department of Education, Culture and Sports   PHDP    Philippines Health Development Project
DILG  Department of Interior and Local Government   PHRD    Population and Human Resources Development
DOF   Department of Finance                         PIA      Philippines Information Agency
DOH   Department of Health                          PMO      Project Management Office
DSWD Department of Social Welfare and Development   PPTA    Project Preparation Technical Assistance
ECD   Early Childhood Development                   RHM      Rural Health Midwife
EPI   Expanded Program of Immunization              SA       Special Account
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                       SOE      Statement of Expenditures
ESW    Economic and Sector Work                     SWO      Social Welfare Officer
FISFAP Financial Information System for Foreign     TEEP    Third Elementary Education Project
Assisted Projects                          ULHNP   Urban Health and Nutrition Project
ICB    International Competitive Bidding            UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
IDF    Institutional Development Fund               USAID   US Agency for International Development
IEC    Information, Education and Communication     WDR    World Development Report
IP     Indigenous Peoples                           WHO      World Health Organization
IRA    Internal Revenue Allotment                   WHSMP  Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project
IMCI  Integrated Management of Child Illness
Vice President:                         Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director:               Vinay Bbargava
Sector Manager/Director:                Maureen Law
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Althea Hill



Philippines
Early Childhood Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective ..............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................2
B. Strategic Context ..............................................................3
1.  Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .......................................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..............................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................3
C. Project Description  Summary ..............                            .................................................6
1. Project components ..............................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................                             .....................8
3. Benefits and target population  ....................                         ..........................................9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................................   10
D. Project Rationale ............................................................. 11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................1..............I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ...........................                        ............... 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................................     17
E. Summary Project Analyses .............................................................                                                17
1. Economic assessment .............................................................                                         17
2. Financial assessment .............................................................                                        18
3. Technical assessment .............................................................                                         18
4. Institutional assessment .............................................................                                    19
5. Social assessment .............................................................                                           20
6. Environmental assessment .............................................................                                    21
7. Participatory approach .............................................................                                      21
F. Sustainability and Risks .............................................................                                                22
1. Sustainability .......................................................                                                   22
3. Possible controversial aspects ....................................................... 24



G. Main Loan Conditions .......................  24
1. Effectiveness conditions ................ 24
2. Other agreements .................                                          24
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................                                28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                              28
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Sunmmay .29
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .36
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .42
Annex 4.   Economic Analysis ...........                                              44
Bibliography to Annex 4, Cost-Benefit Analysis ....................................   62
Annex 5       Financial Summary .............................. . ,64
Annex 6       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .65
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .69
Table Al  Consultant Selection Arrangements .70
Table B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior R,eview .71
Table C  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .72
Annex 7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .73
Annex 8   Documents in Project File .74
Annex 9       Statement of Loans and Credits ....................       ,, 76
Annex 10  Country at a Glance .78
Maps
Map 1         IBRD 29245: Regions and Provinces Covered Under The Project
Map 2         IBRD 29418: Location of indigenous Peoples Groups



Philippines
Early Childhood Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Health, Nutrition & Population Sector Unit
Date: 02/27/98                                         Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Althea Hill
Coumtry Manager/Director: Vinay Bhargava              Sector Manager/Director: Maureen Law
Project ID: PH-PE-4566 Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition    Program Objective Category: PA, PV
Lending Instrument: SIL                                Program of Targeted       [X]  Yes [ I No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data               [X1 Loan       [  Credit      [  Guarantee       [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$19 million
Proposed terms:                         [    Multicurrency  [xl   Single currency, specify
Grace period: 5 years       [    Standard       []    Fixed        [xI       LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 20 years
Commitment fee: .75%
Service charge: N.A.
Financing plan (US$m): Total Project Cost = US$58.8
Source                             Local              Foreign          Total
Government                                                18.1               0.0              18.1
IBRD                                                      11.9               7.1              19.0
ADB                                                       14.3                7.4            21.7
Total       44.3                14.5            58.8
BolTower: Republic of the Philippines
Responsible agency: Department of Social Welfare and Development
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYlUS$m):    1998     1999      2000    2001    2002       2003   2004
Annual              2.0      3.0      4.0      5.0       3.0    2.0
Cumulative             2.0       5.0      9.0     14.0      17.0   19.0
Project implementation period: 1998-2004; Expected effectiveness date: May, 1998; Expected closing date: 12/31/2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The overall aim of the 10-Year National Early Childhood Development (ECD) Program is to contribute
to the attainment of human development goals by providing services that ensure survival and promote the
physical and mental development of Filipino children, particularly those who are most vulnerable and
disadvantaged. A corollary goal is to establish an effective partnership between national and local
governments in the provision of ECD services. The ECD project provides technical and financial resources
for the first 6 years of the program's operation in three Regions (lRegions VI, VII and XII) and has the
same objectives. Achievement of the program/project's overall objective would be measured through
regional reductions in childhood mortality and malnutrition, plus regional improvements in school readiness
and the coverage and performance of ECD services. Achievemenet of the corollary objective would be
measured through the percentage of targeted municipalities in the three Regions who implement ECD
investment packages, and an increase in levels of municipal spending on ECD services in the three Regions.
Since the targeted municipalities are poor, the percentage implementing ECD packages would also measure
success in reaching the most vulnerable and disadvantaged children.
Key Performance Indicators
(Note: Baseline values of Key Indicators will be verified at Baseline Survey and Target Values
re-assessed/determined)
Region-Wide Indicators                          Targeted LGU Indicators
(for each project Region separately and an average for  (for municipalities/cities in the three project
all three weighted by baseline numbers of poor  Regions)
children in each Region)
1. Reduction by 30% of the under-five mortality rate    7. Increase to 75% in proportion of total children
from the baseline value (currently estimated at over  aged three to five in targeted municipalities
35 per thousand).                               attending day-care centers (currently estimated
at under 60%).
2. Reduction by 40 % in the proportion of children
under six with Grade 2 or 3 wasting from the  8. Establishment of functioning PEM programs
baseline value (currently estimated at around 30 %).  in 50% of municipalities/cities by 2003.
3. Reduction by 30% in the proportion of children
under six with anemia from the baseline value  9. Establishment of active CDWs in 50% of
(currently estimated at around 50% among infants).  municipalities/cities by 2003.
4. Increase to 90% in proportion of children aged 12-
18 months fully immunized from the baseline value    10. Implementation of ECD sub-projects in 90% of
(currently estimated at under 85%/6).           targeted municipalities by 2003.
5. Improvement in a combined index of child
development (motor and cognitive skills) among
children under six (indicator to be developed in
baseline study).
6. Increase in completion rate for Grade 1 to 70%
of Grade 1 entrants from the baseline value
(currently estimated at 5 8%).



Page 3
Bt: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: 15362      Date of latest CAS discussion: February 15, 1996
Date of latest CAS progress report: March 24, 1998
According to the Philippines Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Executive Directors
on February 15, 1996, the Bank Group's ultimate objective in the Philippines is to promote sustainable
clevelopment and help achieve a more rapid reduction in poverty. Five specific objectives are laid out in
the CAS, namely to: (1) support Government in converting the current economic recovery into sustained
growth, vital for poverty reduction; (2) strengthen public sector capacity to implement policies and
programs; (3) strengthen infrastructure to enable growth; (4) assist in the design and implementation of
rnore effective and efficient mechanisms for poverty alleviation while upgrading the quality of social
services available to the poor; (5) support sustainable management of natural resources and protect the
environment.
As part of the strategy to achieve objective (4), the CAS supports financing of an Early Childhood
Development Project, in collaboration with the Asian Development Bank. This project would also
contribute to objective (2). It would follow up on the published ECD sector study produced by the Bank
and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), "Improving Early Childhood Development: An Integrated
Program for the Philippines", which outlines a proposed national ECD strategy and investment program
to strengthen the country's current child health, nutrition and pre-school programs. The project also
responds to the November 1995 poverty sector report, "Philippines: A Strategy to Fight Poverty ", which
restates the vital contribution of human capital development and poverty reduction to high and
sustainable economic growth. The poverty sector report recommends increased Government investment
in health services, supplementary feeding programs and primar, education (for which pre-schooling is a
preparation) in order to improve their quality and access by the poor. Fifteen provinces are identified in
the report as the poorest in the country, and hence as needing priority attention; they are Bohol, Cebu,
Davao del Sur, Iloilo, Leyte, Masbate, Negros Occidental, Pangasinan, Zamboanga del Norte,
Zamboanga del Sur, Cagayan, Negros Oriental, South Cotobato, and two of the four provinces
constituting the National Capital Region. The latter two are already covered as regards health and
nutrition services under the Urban Health and Nutrition Project. Five of the remaining thirteen are
included in the ten target provinces for ECD investment under the project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy and 3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and
strategic choices:
Nature of the Problem in ECD in Philippines: Investment in human capital and the breaking of the
cycle of poverty must begin at the start of life. The effects of childhood disease and even moderate
malnutrition on childhood mortality rates are already well-known. Massive research evidence is now
accumulating that the health status, physical nutrition, and psychosocial and mental "nutrition" of very
young children--even in the womb--exert profound and often irreversible effects on their subsequent
physical and mental development (see "Improving Early Childhood Development: An Integrated
Program for the Philippines" and "Early Child Development: Investing in the Future ", a general Bank
sector study of ECD). Among the most recent examples are the linking of chronic diseases such as
coronary heart disease and diabetes to fetal under-nutrition, and the discovery that cognitive stimulation
in early childhood is crucial to the development of brain hard-wiring for key intellectual abilities such as
reading, mathematics and language-learning.
Yet progress in the Philippines in all these areas has lagged behind that of neighbors and comparators,
despite an excellent early start, and is worse than it should be given the country's per capita income. For



Page 4
example, Thailand and Philippines had similar infant mortality rates in the 1960s, yet Thailand's current
rate is only about half as high. China's current under-five mortality rate is lower han current infant
(under-one) mortality m Philippines, despite China's much lower per capita income. Today, half of
Filipino infants are anemic, as are one-quarter of young children and forty percent of pregnant and lactating
women. Other micro-nutrient deficiencies are also common. Around 30 percent of children under age 6
are moderately or severely malnourished by the International Referenice Standard, a higher proportion than
in many poorer countries such as Egypt, Kenya, Tanzanma and Zimbabwe; most of the malnutrition is
moderate rather than severe, but still sufficient to stunt children permanently and damage their health and
cognitive development. Moreover malnutrition rates, though declining, have fallen more slowly than in
either other East Asian or the much poorer South Asian countries. The Philippines also perforns worse
than all its middle-income neighbors both in primary school completion, at a current rate of 68 percent of
primary school entrants graduating, and in school test results.
This relatively poor progress in child welfare is due largely to the economic stagnation and under-
investment in social welfare programs of the Marcos period, combined with an unchanging and highly
inequitable distribution of income and wealth that still is among the worst in low and middle-income Asia.
Little was done during that period to establish adequate national child health services, or to implement the
intensive community-based nutrition programs which could compensate for limited incomes through
nutrition monitoring, education and well-designed and targeted supplementation. The prevalence and depth
of poverty in the Philippines are now declining through accelerated economic growth, but social indicators
still vary dramatically across the country according to poverty levels, indicating that national development
continues to be dragged down by the situation of the poor. The early stages of Devolution further
accentuated the disadvantages of the poorest parts of the country through the failure of the Internal
Revenue Allocation system to target greater resources to LGUs with higher levels of poverty. Action is
needed to redress the stagnation of the past 20 years and the unequal distribution of current revenues,
through investment in programs targeted towards the poorest LGUs and poorest families.
Much can be done even for poor and disadvantaged children in all areas of ECD, and the returns to such
investment are high (see "Improving Early Childhood Development: An Integrated Program for the
Philippines" and the World Development Report [WDR] 1993). Child health programs, using basic low-
cost and cost-effective interventions such as immunization, oral rehydlration therapy (ORT), diagnosis and
correct treatment of acute respiratory infections (ARI), and micro-nutrient supplementation, can
dramatically cut childhood death rates and promote physical growth.  Nutrition programs with
supplements for malnourished children can substantially reduce malnutrition rates and are highly cost-
effective; the estimated cost-benefit ratio for the Philippines of imprcved child protein-energy nutrition in
terms of health expenditure savings and adult productivity gains is four US dollars gained per one US
dollar spent. Good-quality pre-schooling (early education) programs for disadvantaged children, as well
as nutritional supplements for the malnourished, have been shown around the world to have long-lasting
and highly cost-effective effects on school retention rates, intellectual ability and performance and long
termn earnings and welfare; there is even evidence of such effects lasting into the second generation. An
evaluation of a US integrated ECD program for inner-city disadvantaged children estimated a long-term
cost-benefit ratio of seven US dollars saved per one US dollar spent. All the above programs are
affordable for a country of Philippine's level of per capita GDP. The World Development Report, 1993
puts the total cost of a package of primary health and nutrition interventions for the entire population at
US$22 per capita in a middle-income country, or 0.3 percent of Philippines' 1991 Gross National Product
(GNP). The 1995 ECD sector study estimates total needed spending on ECD programs in Philippines at
US$11 per pre-schooler, or about 0.002 percent of Philippines' 1991 GrNP.
Current Programs in ECD: Another important factor in deciding on strategies for future investment and
development in these sectors is that Govermment-financed child health, nutrition and early education
programs are already well-established in the Philippines and enjoy extremely strong political support.



Page 5
Child health programs, run by the DOH along standard lines, took off in the late 1980s; the immunization
program achieved 90 percent full immunization coverage by 1993, and the Control of Diarrheal Disease
(CDD), Control of Acute Respiratory Infections (CARI) and micro-nutrient programs have expanded
rapidly and with some early success. Congress and the media closely monitor the performance of EPI in
particular, using it as a touchstone of the performance of DOH. Like all primary health care interventions,
these services are provided free of charge. Nutrition programs include a variety of community-level
interventions managed by the National Nutrition Council, the Department of Social Development and
WVVelfare (DSWD) and DOH. They all involve supplementary feeding which has relied mainly on supplies
of bulgur wheat and green peas from the US PL480 scheme, plus (in DOH's case) growth monitoring and
nutrition education. They have always attracted strong support from local governments and elected officials
and are often well publicized. Again, these services are provided free of charge. Food subsidy and home-
garden programs also exist. There are two major Early Education programs, both run by DSWD. The
first is a network of so-called "Daycare" Centers, which provide two or three hours of early education a
day for children aged 4-6 years. This network covers 43 percent of barangays (villages) but lacks vital
supplies and adequately trained staff and is thought to be of low quality. The program was established by
Congress under an Act which mandates the establishment of at least one center in every barangay and
continues to be politically popular and visible. The second is a Parent Effectiveness Service (PES) which
trains parents in appropriate parenting skills but has achieved only low coverage and uncertain quality to
clate. The community is expected to top up the allowance paid the day-care center worker, but usually
contributes very little. For true day care for children of working mothers, there is virtually nothing
functioning but the private sector, including a few employer factory-based schemes.
Of these programs, the child health program has been relatively successful and still has much potential that
could be realized. The others have all achieved some degree of success, though they still require further
d3evelopment. However all suffer from chronic underfunding in terms of inadequate equipment, numbers of
field-level staff and other operating expenses. This is worsening under the effects of devolution, since
LGUs, though generally highly supportive in terms of rhetoric and political commitment, generally do not
umderstand the importance of adequate financing for these programs or accord them high budgetary
priority. Although precise data are hard to find, because management information systems are deteriorating
through lack of LGU commitment and capacity to finance their maintenance, signs of adverse trends are
already appearing. For example, immunization rates are said to be falling, food supplementation programs
are being halted following the withdrawal by USAID of PL480 supplies, and LGUs are defaulting on
funding for vital field health staff who were, or are to be, hired under cost-sharing arrangements in Bank
health projects. Upgrading and fine-tuning of these child health, nutrition and early education programs,
with heavy targeting of poor and disadvantaged children, appears the best and most cost-effective strategy
for putting the Philippines back on track in terms of early child welfare indicators and subsequent
educational performance. On the basis of these considerations, plus the established and strong political
support for most of the current ECD programns, Government has adopted the overall approach of building
on and strengthening existing programs.
An outline investment program incorporating this approach was put forward in the ECD sector study,
which was prepared by the Bank and the Asian Development Bank at Government request and in full
consultation with the concerned agencies. A multi-agency ECD Steering Committee was set up by
Government to develop a 10-year national ECD Program (1996-2005) to strengthen ECD programs, led by
DOH, with representation from DSWD, DECS, NEDA and the Council for the Welfare of Children. This
Committee prepared an initial conceptual proposal for a national ECD investment program on the basis of
the sector report's outline. The proposal was approved in May, 1996 by the Cabinet and thereby became
an official Government program. The proposed project would support this national investment program.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The ECD project essentially finances implementation of the ECD Ten-Year National Investment Program
in three regions for its first six years, or from 1998 through 2004. The project is structured into three
components as follows:
~M
0 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 1i ALg    flinn
1. ECD Service           Physical         34.9        59.2        10.0       55.2
Delivery
a. Program Support for   Physical                                 4.6         25.2
Provincial LGUs
b. Financing Facility for  Physical                               5.4         30.0
MunicipalCity LGU
ECD Sub-Projects
2. Support to LGU       Institution-      12.3         20.9       5.4         24.4
Sub-Proiects           Building
a. Communications       Institution-                              1.3         7.2
Support               Building
b. Planning, Targeting  Institution-                              3.7         15.2
& MIS Support         Building
c. Training Support     Institution-                              0.4         2.0
Building
d. Institutional        Institution-                               --          ---
Development            Building
3. Research and           Policy          3.6          6.6        1.7         9.6
Development
a. Pilot Testing of       Policy                                  0.2         1.2
Project Interventions
b. Program Innovation     Policy                                   ---        ---
and Policy
Development
c. Benefit Monitoring     Policy                                  1.5         8.4
and Evaluation
Taxes and Duties                           1.7         2.9         ---        ---
Contingencies                             6.2          10.5       1.9         10.8
TOTAL
PROJECT           58.8        100.0      19.0        100.0



Page 7
Sub-Component 1.A: Program Support for Provincial LGUs. This sub-component consists of five
packages, comprising support to all provinces in the three project Regions for five programs, namely the
Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI), the Integrated Management of Child Illness (IMCI) Program,
the Micronutrient Malnutrition Prevention and Control Program, the Parent Effectiveness Service (PES)
Program, and the Grade 1 Early Child Experience/Early Child Development (ECE/ECD) Program.
The Expanded Program of Immunization package will supply crucial needed additional inputs to the EPI
program, including replacement cold-chain equipment, training of cold-chain technicians in cold-chain
mranagement, maintenance and repair, training of primary health care staff in basic EPI skills, and
reproduction of EPI IEC materials and monitoring charts. This package would be managed by the
Department of Health (DOH).
The Integrated Management of Child Illness package will support the initiation in the Philippines of the
World Health Organization (WHO)-supported IMCI program, which aims to improve the diagnosis,
management and treatment of common childhood conditions such as pneumonia, diarrheal disease, dengue,
malaria, tuberculosis, anemia and malnutrition. The package will provide in-service IMCI training for
doctors, nurses and midwives, support the integration of IMCI into the curricula of medical, nursing and
midwifery schools, and supply delivery and diet kits to improve case-management of conditions affecting
the new-born. It would be managed by DOH.
I'he Micronutrient Malnutrition Prevention and Control package will prevent, manage and control major
micronutrient deficiencies (in iron, iodine and vitamin A) in the Philippines through a mix of direct
supplementation, food fortification and deworming of children. The overall strategy is to phase out direct
supplementation, except for special high-risk groups such as pregnant women, over the life of the project,
and correspondingly promote comprehensive industry-financed fortification of staple foodstuffs (salt,
sugar, flour, rice, oil), backed by regular deworming. The project would support interim supplies of iron
supplements (the current gap in DOH's micronutrient supplementation program) on a declining basis,
weighing scales for infants to identify low-birthweight babies requiring iron supplements, deworming
tablets, and the costs of institutional development and social marketing to promote comprehensive food
fortification. The package would be managed by DOH.
The Parent Effectiveness Service package will upgrade the current PES program through introduction of a
Mother and Child book, which provides a permanent record of child growth and development from birth to
sixth birthday, and reproduction and distribution of an updated version of a parent's manual on early child
clevelopment developed for an earlier project. The package would be managed by DSWD in coordination
with DECS, who will incorporate it into its Teacher-Child-Parent program, and DOH Provincial Health
Offices, who will incorporate it into its health education program.
The Grade 1 ECE/ECD package, which aims to improve the child-readiness of elementary schools through
Region-wide introduction of an already pilot-tested enriched Grade 1 cumculum that contains an 8-week
"Early Child Experiences"(ECE) module incorporating more innovative and participatory approaches, will
support training of teachers in the new curriculum and the reproduction and distribution of training and
teaching materials. The project would also provide complementary health and nutrition inputs through iron
supplementation and deworming of Grade 1 entrants (see Micronutrient package above). The package
would be managed by the Department of Education, Culture and Sport (DECS).



Page 8
Sub-Component 1.B: Financing Facility for Municipal/City Local Government Unit (LGU) ECD
Sub-Projects. This financing facility, which will operate through the Municipal Development Fund
(MDF) will provide matching financing, on a flexible cost-sharing basis geared to LGU income levels but
with full funding by LGUs of major recurrent costs, for LGUs who wish to invest in upgrading of their
ECD services. LGUs would, with technical support from the project, submit proposals for three-year
investment packages for appraisal, and implement them once approved. The facility would cover three
Regions, namely Regions VI, VII and XII, containing a majority of the country's poorest children. It
would be open to all LGUs in the three regions, but more than 80 percent of the funds available would be
reserved for the 10 provinces and 169 cities and municipalities withi the greatest number of needy and at-
risk children; these LGUs would be targeted for active recruitment. A region from Mindanao was included
as a contribution to Government's new development initiative there. Some new and innovative elements of
the investment packages, such as the new protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) control program, would also
be pilot-tested in five selected LGUs during the first year of the preject under Component 3 (Research &
Development). The generic cost-sharing formula is shown below:
LGU Income Class          % Grant             % Equity
1st Class                      40                  60
2nd & 3rd Class                60                   40
4th to 6th Class               80                   20
This sub-component would be managed by the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
Component 2: Support to Service Delivery
This component would provide support to LGUs in implementing theiir investment packages in the areas of
communications (advocacy, information, education, communication, for LGU executives, opinion leaders
and decision makers, ECD providers and parents), planning, tarlgeting and management information
systems (MIS), training and human resource development, and institutional development. Support would
be provided at the central, regional, provincial and municipal levels. There would be four sub-components,
covering respectively communications, planning/targeting and MIS, training, and strengthening and support
of the management capacity of LGUs, the project management structure, and the Council for the Welfare
of Children (CWC), which is expected to become the apex agency for the national ECD program in the
longer term. This sub-component would be managed by DSWD, in coordination with a mix of agencies
and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), as appropriate.
Component 3: Research and Development (R&D)
This component would finance R&D activities needed to support effective ECD program/project
implementation, including initial piloting of new field-level technical interventions proposed under the
project. There would be three sub-components, the first covering piloting of project interventions, the
second consisting of unprogrammed financing for research and testing of new and innovative approaches to
ECD services, and the third covering monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness and impact of the
project, including baseline and end-project evaluation surveys. This component would be managed by
DSWD in coordination with CWC, and a mix of agencies as appropriate.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support initial implementation in three key Regions of the new Ten-Year National ECD
Development Program, and hence key policy and institutional development and reform in existing ECD
policies, programs and services. As a part of the Program, it also supports strengthening of LGU capacity



Page 9
to manage and implement ECD programs and services, and hence contributes to the long-term development
of the post-Devolution structure and performance of social sector programs and services.
3. Benefits and target population:
Tlhe ECD program and project would correct past Govenment under-spending in human resource
development and poverty alleviation by inproving ECD program design, targeting and performance, and by
strengthening institutional capacity in this sector at central and local government level. These upgraded
ECD programs would lower childhood mortality rates and burden of disease, and improve the nutrition and
cognitive development of children in the Philippines. These outcomes would in turn improve school
retention rates and performance and the health and productivity of adults. They would thereby contribute
to the building of human capital and reduction of poverty in the Philippines, which together are current
constraints on the country's potential fbr sustained long-term economic growth and development.
The central-level policy-relevant portion of the project (primarily Component 3, but with spill-over from
Component 2 and sub-component L.A) would provide general benefits, through improved ECD policies and
service design, for the health, nutrition, cognitive development and primary education of approximately 10
to 11 million pre-school children annually, vith gains concentrated among the approximately 3 to 4 million
children living below the poverty level. The Region-wide portion of the project (primarily sub-component
1.A) would directly benefit the healt, nutntion, cognitive development and primary education of
approximately 2 million pre-school children annually, through key additional inputs to region-wide ECD
programs. The LGU sub-projects supported under sub-component 1.B, which are targeted to poor and
needy municipalities and families, are expected to provide upgraded ECD services, and hence direct
benefits in the above areas, for a minimum of 1.3 million pre-school children over the life of the project.
Program and Project Scope: The ECD programn approved by Cabinet is national in scope. This project
finances its initial implementation in three Regions, of which two (VI and VII) contain the largest numbers
of disadvantaged children in the coumtry and the third (XII) is located in the disadvantaged island of
Mindanao. Some program and project interventions, such as immunization or promotion of industry-based
food fortification, must by their very niature be designed to cover the whole community in the three Regions
and the entire country respectively. -lowever the program and the project both feature heavy targeting of
poor and disadvantaged families and children. A high degree of self-targeting is expected given the nature
of the programs themselves, but two types of direct targeting will also be employed in the project. The first
is geographical, through selection of poorer provinces, municipalities or barangays for priority financing.
The second is targeting of poor families within each geographic area, which will forn part of LGU sub-
project planning and implementation. In addition, some interventions such as nutrition supplementation or
treatment of diarrhea and respiratory infections would automatically target only children screened as in
need of the intervention. Ten provinces are targeted for ECD investment, namely Antique, Bohol, Capiz,
Cebu, Guimaras, Iloilo, Lanao del Norte, Negros Occidental, Negros Oriental and North Cotobato. Five of
these are included in the list of those identified as the fifteen poorest in the country by the poverty sector
report "A Strategy to Fight Poverty" (see Block 2, Section 5). Eight are included in the 30 provinces
targeted for upgrading of elemnentary education under the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) (see
Block 2, section 10), of which six fall under the 11 provinces added to the basic list of Social Reform
Agenda provinces for TEEP coverage because of their intense poverty.  See Section 8 (Analysis of
Alternatives) for further details of the targeting process.



Page 10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 1998-2003
Executing agencies: The project has primarily been designed and prepared, and will be implemented, by
three agencies, namely the Departments of Health (DOH), Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), and
Education, Culture and Sports (DECS). DOH was in charge of preparation from late 1994 through end-
1996, but then handed over to DSWD. DSWD was named by the National Economic and Development
Authority (NEDA) as the lead agency for implementation and will be responsible for overall project
management.
Project coordination: The project will be implemented by DSWD, DOH and DECS under the overall
leadership of DSWD. Following the usual pattem of project management in the Govenmment of
Philippines, a national project management office (PMO) will be set up within DSWD, located in the
Office of the Secretary. It wil be headed by a Project Director who would be an Undersecretary in
DSWD. Day-to-day management will be the responsibility of a full-time Project Coordinator, also a
DSWD official. There will be four operating units within the PMO, covering respectively: management
services (including procurement and disbursement/flows of funds); technical services; financial
management services (overseeing the financing facility for LGIJ sub-projects); and research and
development, which wil coordinate with CWC on the management of component 3. Staff will be a mix of
contractual staff and long-term consultants. DOH and DECS will each organize an internal project
coordination unit at national level for the sub-components for which they have management responsibility,
and designate a senior member of their regular staff as agency coordinator. These agency coordinators
will liaise with the Project Coordinator in the PMO. Regional agency coordinators will likewise be
designated in the project regions. A manual of operations is being finalized for the LGU financing facility,
entitled "LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations". Funds for this facility would flow to LGUs
through the Municipal Development Fund.
A regional PMO will be set up at the DSWD regional office in each of the three Regions (VI, VII and XII),
on similar lines to the central PMO but with smaller staff complements. The Assistant Regional Director
will serve as Project Coordinator. A regional ECD team, headed by the DSWD Regional Director, will be
established, which will be responsible for initial advocacy and negotiations with provincial governors to
form an ECD partnership. Each Governor will, at his own cost, set up a small Provincial Project
Management Office, and designate a Provincial ECD Action Officer to head it. A provincial ECD team
will be established, which will: assist in advocacy and dissemination of information on ECD and the
project; solicit targeted municipalities and cities to make use of the LGU financing facility and undertake
ECD sub-projects; initiate and supervise the municipal/city sub-project planning process; coordinate a
consolidated provincial ECD plan incorporating all municipal/city ECD sub-projects and plans; and assist
in administering part of the technical support packages, such as training and IEC, under contract to the
regional PMO. Normal provincial-level ECD referral services and techmcal supervision of municipal ECD
providers will continue to be provided by the province out of their regular budgets.
Each LGU whose proposed sub-project is approved will sign a Sub-project Assistance Agreement with the
national PMO. The Sub-project Assistance Agreement will specify the responsibilities and inputs of the
Borrower and of the LGU under the project, with the municipality/city undertaking to implement the sub-
project as approved, and receiving the appropriate financial and technical support to do so. The mayor will
designate a municipal ECD Action Officer and ECD team who will plan and coordinate sub-project
implementation.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): At central level, the multi-agency ECD Steering Committee
will provide oversight and guidance to the project. Under the project, CWC will be strengthened to act as



Page 11
apex agency for the national ECD program in the longer terrn, as well as a resource and
information/communication center for ECD programming and a partner with the PMO in management of
Component 3.  At regional level, each of the three project Regions will create a regional ECD  team.
headed by the DSWD regional director and including the regional directors of DOH, DECS, the National
Nutrition Council (NNC), the Philippines Information Agency (PIA), NEDA, DILG and NGO
representatives. This regional team will guide the Regional PMO and monitor program and project
implementation. There will be similar provincial and municipal ECD teams.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: Project expenditures will be recorded using
the accounting procedures titled Financial Information System for Foreign Assisted Projects (FISFAP),
promulgated by the Commission on Audit (COA). At the end of each calendar year, the Central Project
Management Office (CPMO) will consolidate all accounts pertaining to the project, including those
submitted by DSWD, DOH, DECS and MDF (representing the LGUs), and then prepare and submit to the
COA Auditor consolidated Project Accounts. COA will render an opinion on the consolidated Project
Accounts. The Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOE) of each implementing agency will
be audited by the COA according to Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. COA will
also render a separate opinion on the operation of the Special Accounts and SOEs. The financial
management of the project by the implementing agencies will be periodically reviewed by the central PMO
as described in Annex 6. All audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within the six months following
the end of each calendar year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Evaluation of the project will be carried out primarily through
a set of baseline and end-project surveys. This will include a general population-based sample survey of
ECD status and services in the three Regions, special nutrition surveys integrated into the National
Nutrition Surveys planned for 1998 and 2003, special surveys of ECD-related knowledge, attitudes and
practice, and special provincial-level surveys of ethnic groups. Key project indicators are given only
indicative baseline and target values in the Project Appraisal Document and the Project Implementation
Program, since data for many of the current values are not up-to-date. The primary function of the
baseline survey will therefore be to establish up-to-date values for the key project indicators, on which
basis the target end-project values will be confirmed or modified as appropriate. At project mid-point, a
mid-term survey could repeat portions of the baseline survey if any significant change in indicators is
considered likely. The end-project survey will repeat the baseline survey in full, to determine achievement
in meeting target values of the key indicators. Service statistics from the implementing agencies will be
used where possible to supplement the results of the surveys and to track progress between surveys. In
addition, there will be annual hemoglobin and community-based micronutrient monitoring surveys, as well
as regular community-based monitoring of interventions for ethnic minorities.
Progress in implementation of the project will be monitored through the program/project MIS. This will
include: tracking of expenditure and disbursement; contract monitoring to track delivery of contractor
outputs; commodities procurement tracking; and monitoring of implementation progress through tracking
of consumption of inputs plus a sentinel site reporting system.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Choice of Technology
The project will provide early childhood education through home-based programs for children aged 0-3,
center-based day care for children aged 3-5, and an 8-week Grade 1 curriculum for 6 year old children.
Health and nutrition inputs for children aged 0-6 (supplementary foods, nicronutrient supplements, growth
monitoring, immunization, developmental screening, etc.) will be provided by the project in conjunction



Page 12
with early childhood education and by referral to primary health care providers. Specifically, the project
will provide:
(i) children books, learning/manipulative materials, play materials, developmental screening materials,
growth charts, weighing scales, parent reference materials, developmental assessment kits,
nutrition inputs, and training for new child development workers and day care mothers for home-
based ECD services for 0-3 year old children;
(ii) construction of new day care centers, upgrading and renovation of existing day care centers,
equipment, child books, leamning/manipulative materials, play materials, developmental screening
materials, growth charts, weighing scales, parent reference materials, developmental assessment
kits, and training for new and existing day care workers for ihe expansion of the existing publicly
provided day care program for 3-5 year old children;
(iii) teacher materials including pre-school handbooks, readiness test booklets, child books, story telling
manuals, songs, games, poems, audio tapes, student materials including sets of blocks and
manipulative toys for an 8-week Grade I curriculum, and training of Grade 1 teachers;
(iv) mother and child books, manuals for parents of newborns, children books, learning/manipulative
materials, play materials, developmental screening materials, growth charts, weighing scales,
parent reference materials, and developmental assessment kits, health inputs, and training for new
and existing rural health midwives; and
(v) mother and child books, manuals for parents of newborns, ancd other parent education materials for
parents of children enrolled in day care programs and parents of 0-3 year old children in
neighborhood-based parent-child development groups formed by home-based child development
workers and day care mothers.
Choice of Number of Years of Early Education. The project will provide health, nutrition and early
education inputs from birth through an 8-week curriculum in Grade I for 6 year old children. This
rationale for this choice is based on evidence from neuroscience research that the optimum development and
functioning of the human brain from gestation, at birth and onwards depends largely on the quality of care
and interaction that an infant and young child receives from prinmay caregivers. Moreover, there is
substantial evidence that programs designed to improve the psychosocial development of children in the
first six years of life and that integrate health and nutrition components with early education can
significantly affect children's development and their readiness for school. These improvements make a
child more likely to attend school, less likely to repeat or drop out and a better performer in school.
Choice of Inputs to Improve School Readiness. Readiness for schoo] is defined in terms of the child's
activity level (health and nutritional status affecting attendance, attention and concentration), social
competencies and psychological preparedness (which affect the ability tD cope with different learning
environments), and cognitive abilities, including early literacy, mathematics and thinking skills. Readiness
also is reflected in the expectations the family holds for the child which relate also to the support they are
ready to provide. The project inputs have been selected to take advantage of the synergistic relationship
between health, nutrition, and early education that can positively influence school readiness. For example,
in order to sustain the gains from short-term food supplementation and growth monitoring, education for
children and parents is required so that the feeding and health practices will be reinforced and internalized.
The integration of parent education and nutritional inputs is required for the adoption of practices that
improve a child's psychosocial well-being, nutritional status, health, growth and overall well-being. This
integration of project inputs will lead to improved school readiness.



Page 13
Choice of Home-Based and Center-Based ECD Services. The choice of a home-based early education
program for 0-3 year old children is based on the recognition of the large gap in service provision for
under-three's, and that center-based programs for 0-3 year olds are not culturally appropriate or viable in
the Filipino culture either in urban or rural areas. The absence of a civil works requirement for the home-
based approach also contributes to the cost-effectiveness of the project. The project's early education
inputs for 3-5 year olds builds on the existing public day care center-based system. Health and nutrition
inputs will be administered through the home-based program, the day care center-based
program, and through the existing facility-based rural health unit system by health care providers.
Choice of Public Versus Private Finiancing
Child Health Care Services. Child health care services in the Philippines, including micronutrient and
food supplementation, food fortification initiatives, support for national EPI, CARI, and CDD programs,
largely has been provided by the public sector. The commercial private sector does not deliver the low-cost
preventive, promotive, and selective basic curative types of interventions that are required. The public child
health programs provide preventive goods and services (e.g. polio immunization) and cost-effective curative
services (e.g. cotrimoxazole for early treatment of CARI) for many contagious diseases. These are mixed
public/private health goods that yield both private benefits to the individual and public benefits to the
community at large. Without some level of government subsidy, these goods would be consumed at levels
below the social optimum. In addition, demand for such services by the poor is weak, due to lack of
information and the low priority generally accorded to preventive services. Potential private sector profits
from these goods and services are low compared to those from other types of medical treatment, and poor
families in remote communities lack access to good quality private providers. NGOs which provide child
health services only cover a very small fraction of the national need. The most effective approaches to
provision of subsidies for these types of goods worldwide in child health (WDR, 1993) have been publicly
funded programs that at the minimum provide coverage for poor and remote populations, incorporate NGO
partners to the extent possible, and regulate private providers to conform to national protocols.
Child Nutrition. For basic child malnutrition interventions (screening and monitoring child growth,
educating families in correct feeding practices, providing low-cost specially-tailored nutritional
supplements where necessary), the commercial private sector is very small in the Philippines. The
development constraints are similar to those faced by child health. They include low demand, since all but
the severest malnutrition is not visible on a day-to-day basis, lack of information of correct nutrition is
widespread among poor families, and low profit levels for labor-intensive interventions targeted heavily to
the very poor and remote areas. NGO coverage is again small-scale and spotty. Experience around the
world indicates that effective child malnutrition approaches must be designed around community-based
workers and interventions. They are either financed and managed by Government, with NGO involvement
where possible, or are initiated, designed, monitored and subsidized by Government departments, with
NGO assistance, and implemented through community mobilization for self-help activities.
Early Education. The financing of early education and day care for children of working mothers appears
to be bimodal in the Philippines. For families with higher incomes, there is a well-established private
market for both of these types of services, at least in urban areas, though it is little regulated and of
unknown quality. Public provision of these services for higher income families is difficult to justify. For
the poor and for many rural communities, however, the situation is analogous to those for child health and
malnutrition programs. The private sector in rural communities for early education services is not
developed and is unlikely to emerge in the foreseeable future, due to low profit potential, unattractive
settings, and weak demand caused by ignorance of early education benefits and the low priority given by
poor families to pay with no immediate retum. Day care services for children with working mothers are
provided either through informal family or neighbor arrangements, or through low cost but very low-quality



Page 14
commercial arrangements. Again, NGOs provide only limited coverage in both cases. Experience around
the world indicates that Government involvement is needed to develop good-quality early education services
to the poor and disadvantaged. This can be done either through direct public provision (with NGO
involvement where possible) or through initiation, monitoring and subsidization of conununity-level
schemes. There is little experience with publicly provided day care for children of working mothers in the
developing world, but publicly managed and funded schemes are unlikely to be effective or sustainable in
the Philippines. Some subsidy and mobilization of the private sector (including employers) and NGOs may
be the most promising approach.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned:
Sector issue                   Project         Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
_mplementation   Development
Bank-Financed                                               Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Primary Education Sector
Effective 1981, a sector loan with a policy  Sector Program for  Closed        Closed
and program reform agenda.             Elementary
Education Project
(Ln. 2030-PH)
Effective, 1991, a loan with budget support   Second Elementary  Closed        Closed
operation with some investment in      Education Project
infiastructure and no project management    (Ln. 3244-PH)
unit.
Effective July, 1997, a standard investment   Third Elementary   S               S
project which will 1) strengthen the primary   Education Project
education system in 26 poor provinces  (Ln. 4108-PH)
through a bottom-up stakeholder-based
system of planning and 2) strengthen DECS
to manage this process at national and
regional levels.



Page 15
Sector issue                    Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bakfnne projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health Sector
Effective 1990, closed end-1997; supports  Philippines Health    Closed          Closed
strengthening of national malaria, TB and    Development Project
schistosomiasis control programs, plus  (PHDP) Ln. 3099-PH
institutional strengthening of DOH, policy-
linked research and a fund for community-
'level health-related micro-projects. It has
been rated as satisfactory throughout its
lifetime.
Effective 1994; supports strengthening of   Urban Health and       U                U
primary health and nutrition programs for   Nutrition Project
urban slum populations, plus related   (UHNP) Cr. 2506-PH
institutional development of DOH and
]LGUs, policy research, and a fund for slum
community micro-projects. It currently is
rated unsatisfactory for the second time in
its life, and a remedial plan is being
implemented, to be followed up by a Mid-
ternm Review.
Effective 1995, supports strengthening of   Women's Health and     S                S
iwomen's health care services (including  Safe Motherhood
irst-level referral for complicated    Project (WHSMP)
pregnancies and deliveries, reproductive  Ln. 3852-PH
lhealth care and cervical cancer screening),
related institutional development of DOIH,
policy research, and a fund for related
community micro-projects. It was rated
satisfactory in its last 590.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The health projects were all designed before significant post-devolution experience had accumulated, and
education has only recently been partially devolved. Only UHNP is currently being implemented through
LGUs. Thus experience relevant to the reality of post-devolution is still scanty and incomplete. The role
and capabilities of the LGUs is nonetheless emerging as a major issue that must be successfully addressed
for any future projects in devolved sectors, with special attention to LGU willingness and capacity to fully
fand essential field-level staff. Donor coordination, particularly with the ADB, became another important
issue during the appraisal of WHSMP, compounded by last-minute divergences in lending terms between
the two Banks. Joint Bank/ADB negotiations were not held as originally planned, European Community



Page 16
negotiations were delayed, and the project was fragmented among thre many donors involved. The lesson
learned was that extremely close and good-faith partnership and collaboration must be achieved if the
project design is to maintain its integrity.
Other lessons to date from the health and primary education projects are mixed. Though there were
problems with flows of funds, procurement and disbursement procedures in the earlier stages, the older
projects in both sectors ultimately fulfilled their physical objectives, disbursed fully in the end, and were
almost always rated satisfactory to highly satisfactory. Slow start-ups were (and are) the rule, but the
older projects succeeded in catching up on most fronts. The piroblems encountered in day-to-day
implementation were almost all related to inadequate arrangements for project management and insufficient
attention to the details of implementation, particularly in the early stages of the projects. On the health
side, where project objectives were relatively straightforward and no major policy reforms attempted,
objectives appear to have been satisfactorily met. On the education side, where policy goals were
ambitious and far-reaching, little policy and program reform was actually achieved. However the picture
has changed recently with respect to the health projects UHNP and WHSMP. UHNP is reaching its mid-
point substantially and increasingly behind schedule, due largely to major problems with DOH procurement
procedures and to unstable and unsatisfactory management. No progress has yet been made towards
meeting project objectives. WHSMP is now in its third year of implementation and has also slipped behind
schedule, again due largely to procurement problems. It would thus appear that DOH's ability to
implement has declined over time. To meet the concerns over procurement under UHNP, project-financed
procurement is to be contracted out to a private-sector agency.
To summarize, DOH and DECS have proved to be capable of implementing projects in these areas, but
they have required attentive supervision to ensure that sufficient time and energy is devoted to project
management. Ambitious policy and program reforms have not proved to be achievable. Recent experience
with DOH also indicates a growing weakness in implementation, particularly in procurement where an
alternative approach to DOH procedures is to be tried out. It is unfortunately too early for sound
judgments on the sustainability of project inputs and outcomes, but the:re are worrying signs that the LGUs
have lacked the necessary institutional capacity and commitment to maintain the strengthened programs
(see below). Overall lessons for future projects are that: 1) projects should be structured to build upon and
strengthen existing programs and interventions, with realistically-scaled degrees of change and reform; 2)
project management systems must be carefully designed to maxinize attention to day-to-day
implementation needs, with particular attention to possible alternative systems for procurement; 3) LGUs
must be strengthened and fully integrated into project design and implementation arrangements; and 4)
project design should aim to make LGU support of key field-level staff mandatory from the start of the
project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
As mentioned above, the Government of Philippines already supports an array of programs designed to
promote the physical and mental development of pre-school children. All are endorsed and closely
monitored by Congress, which initiated some of them and is currently considering a bill to promote
universal access to pre-school. The Council for the Welfare of Children, an attached agency of DSWD,
whose mandate is to oversee programs, policies and issues concerning children, may soon be transformed
into a Commission attached to the President's Office. There is therefore unquestioned broad-based support
for ECD programs within the Government and political institutions of Philippines at the national level,
demonstrated most recently by the approval by Cabinet of the 10.-Year National ECD Development
Program. Commitment has also been shown through the consistent support and inputs of the agencies
involved in program and project development, particularly DSWD which is now the lead agency for project
preparation. Two Population and Human Resources Development (PE1RD) Grants were requested for use
in project preparation, of which the first was fully utilized and the second expected to be so. DSWD was
and is a strong advocate for the project within Cabinet and with central agencies such as NEDA and the



Page 17
Department of Finance, and includecl funds in its 1997 budget for early pilot implementation and pre-
project activities. All three line agencies included counterpart and project funds in their 1998 budgets.
'The drawback to ECD commitment at LGU level to date has been the limited financial capacity of poorer
LGUs and their uncertain commitment to social service funding. The design of LGU involvement in the
project, with demand-driven sub-projects backed by intensive advocacy and IEC activities aimed at
motivating LGUs to take up such sub-projects, is intended to address this issue. Feedback from
consultations with LGUs during project preparation on participation in the project itself, including field
tests of the computer-based planning tool, was very positive. Consultations were held with officials from
targeted LGUs, and all demonstrated a very high level of willingness to participate in the project, with
signed endorsements of the project by govemors, city and municipal mayors, vice-mayors, provincial board
members, and city and municipal council members. Several mayors expressed serious interest in
undertaking sub-projects and participated in drawing up initial outlines and budgets for proposals; six
municipal/city councils passed resolutions to authorize sub-projects. Five such resolutions must be passed
as a condition of effectiveness.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
An ECD project would build on and supplement existing Bank-financed projects which support health
programs in the areas of disease control, urban slum health services and reproductive health and maternal
care, as well as primary education. Like them, it would target the poor, both through geographic area
selection and because poor families are the major beneficiaries and heaviest users of state-financed public
and primary health programs and the public primary education system. Bank , as well as ADB,
involvement is needed because of the large scale of the additional ECD investment required. The national
ECD programn would require investments estimated at more than P 780 million annually over the next
decade; and the project is designed to contribute about 45% annually over the next six years to financing
these expenditures. Government would be unable to finance the additional investments wholly out of
domestic sources, and no bilateral donor grants have been identified for this project. UNICEF may be able
to provide some funds, but has not yet finalized the next Five-Year Country Program due to start in 1999,
and hence cannot currently make firm commitments. In any case, its likely contribution would not amount
to more than a few US$ million. The Bank, with the ADB, is uniquely well placed to assist Government in
mobilizing available grant financing under an umbrella ECD project because of the prior partnership of
both Banks with Government in the ECD sector report, and in the health and education sectors.
E: Summary Project Analysis (l)etailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4forfull discussion):
Health and Nutrition:
In 1994, the Profiles project developed a nutrition simulation model based on results found in the
international literature and modified for the conditions in the Philippines, to examine the relationships
between the nutritional status of young children and lower death and disease rates, lower health
expenditures, lower rates of mental retardation, higher labor productivity in agriculture, and increased
future eamings. More recently, during project preparation, traditional cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA)
and cost-benefit analysis (CBA) of project inputs were used to build on the Profiles earlier work. The
results of these studies indicate the delivery of health, nutrition and early education inputs from this project
will be highly cost-effective, and combine in ways that strengthen the links between child health, education
and economic returns. Investing in the health and education of children increases a country's overall
standard of living by building human resources that generate higher economic returns, reduce social costs,
and increase the efficiency of other investments. For health and nutrition interventions, the net present
value of wage gains for children benefited by the project will increase from Pesos 9 billion to Pesos 30
billion.



Page 18
Early Education:
Early childhood development interventions improve school attendlance and performance, increasing
children's prospects for higher productivity and future income. Additionally, these interventions will reduce
the likelihood that children will become burdens on public health and social service budgets. Mothers also
are helped by project investments. For early education, even on conservative assumptions, the ERR of the
project interventions are estimated at a minimum of 15 percent, which iis the threshold usually applied in the
Philippines to infiastructure interventions such as roads and irrigation systems.
2. Financial Assessment (see Annex 4forfull discussion):
National Agencies:
An analysis of the fiscal impact and sustainability of the project's investments at the national agency level
shows them to be easily sustainable from expected future national agency budgets. Because of the
overwhelming proportion of investment costs and minimal end-of-project recurrent costs for national
agency project sub-components, recurrent costs for national level agencies beyond the life of the project are
minimal. Total annual end of project recurrent costs for the national agencies amount to R2.6 million per
year, or less than one one-hundredth of one percent (.01 percent) of the national agencies' combined annual
recurrent budgets in 2003 (about P82 billion). The executing agency, DSWD, has the largest share of
national agency recurrent project costs (1.4 million, or 25 percent of the total) and the smallest recurrent
budget (P1,777 million), yet recurrent end-of-project costs represent less than one-tenth of one percent (.08
percent) of its annual recurrent budget.
Municipalities and Cities:
A study of the affordability of the LGU sub-projects was carried out at project preparation. The analysis is
based on a sample of 94 municipalities, and examines the capacity of LGU discretionary resources to
finance the ECD interventions. The results of the study suggest the project is affordable and sustainable
for LGUs, particularly because the project implementation schedule has been adjusted to begin phasing in
LGU sub-projects in year 2 (1999) of the project, thus avoiding the possibility of LGU budget deficits in
year 1 (1998) of the project. All LGUs will begin their sub-projects in 1999 or later, and the timing allows
them to allocate an expected IRA increase to finance project costs. Progressive matching grants from the
national government to LGUs that cover initial investment costs and decrease the financial burden to the
lowest income LGUs also improve project affordability. In addition, the burden of recurrent costs per
capita for LGUs is relatively small, about one-half of one percent, when compared to annual LGU income
per capita.
3. Technical Assessment:
The technical interventions in child health, nutrition and early education that are to be piloted, upgraded or
sustained under the project are almost all standard programs that have been tried and tested worldwide and
proved successful in a wide variety of settings. Most, including the existing child health programs, the Day
Care Center program and the existing set of field-level providers, are already well established in the
Philippines and have achieved some degree of success; deficiencies are generally attributable to lack of
adequate funding rather than technical shortcomings. All also are minimum-cost interventions using
primary-level staff, community-based workers and basic facilities and equipment
The major technical uncertainties are attached to two interventions to be respectively launched and
substantially upgraded under the project, namely the PEM and PES programs. No successful national PEM
program has yet been developed in Philippines, despite extensive experience with a wide array of numerous
small-scale and fragmented malnutrition programs. However the national program to be introduced under
the project has been designed on the basis of successful experience with similar programs in south India,
Central and South America and southeast Asia. It also builds on the existing national Operation Timbang



Page 19
child-weighing program, and has taken into account the lessons of the country's past experience with
smaller malnutrition interventions. There are therefore solid grounds for expecting the new national
program to succeed. By contrast, programs for parent and community-based psychosocial stimnulation of
very young children are so far rare and only weakly understood worldwide; hence any intervention in this
area is necessarily new, innovative and experimental in nature. However the existing PES program, though
limited, has recently been favorably evaluated and provides a good basis for further development. To
rninimize risks still further, and extract maximum value from the project's investment in them whatever
their ultimate degree of success, both programs in their respective new and upgraded states will be piloted
auid evaluated in five pilot LGUs during the first year of the project, before being implemented on a larger
scale. In addition, the upgraded PES program will be evaluated as part of a collaborative research effort to
be conducted by a team from the World Bank's Development Economics & Chief Economist Department,
involving a longitudinal study of early education in three countries, including Philippines. Both programs
are again minimum-cost interventions that utilize field-level staff, community-based workers and the most
basic of facilities and equipment.
4. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies: DOH and DECS have long experience with Bank projects and adequate staff
strength both at central and regional level to manage and implement their portions of the project.
Past project experience indicates that both are capable of effective implementation, but recent
experience with DOH is not encouraging as regards procurement and project management. DSWD,
on the other hand, is thinly staffed at both central or regional level and has not previously
implemented a Bank project. However DSWD's capacity to manage and implement will be
strengthened at both central and regional level by the project, under Component 2 (d) (see Annex 2),
as will the capacity of CWC to provide policy guidance and oversight. The extremely limited
institutional capacity of LGUs to manage and implement is a well known constraint on project
effectiveness. However under Devolution they must bear primary responsibility for ECD service
delivery and the issue is simply how to strengthen them to do so. This is the secondary project
objective and sub-components 1 (b), 2 (b), and 2 (d) of the project (see Annex 2) are designed to
provide the needed inputs.
b. Project management: In this complex multi-sector, multi-agency and multi-layer project, the structure
of project management must effectively balance the competing demands of efficiency in project
management and implementation on the one hand, and strong teamwork and integration with the
regular line agencies and LGU sectoral structures on the other hand. Given recent experience in the
health portfolio, the efficiency of procurement is another particular concern. DSWD's lack of
experience with Bank-supported projects and limited staffing must also be taken fully into account.
The proposed management structure represents an effort to achieve this balance. To meet efficiency
concerns, there will be strong project management offices (PMOs) at central and regional level,
staffed by contractual personnel and long-term consultants. Contracting-out will be used extensively
for procurement, the management and implementation of communications and much of R&D, and
the implementation of training. All contracting-out will be managed in turn from the central and
regional PMOs. To meet teamwork and integration concerns, the provincial PMOs will be staffed
and financed by the provincial governments. Strong links with regular line agencies are built into the
central and regional project managernent structures, through the multi-agency committees, ECD
teams and taskforces, and the DOH and DECS project coordination units and agency coordinators,
who will coordinate with the PMOs in implementation. ECD teams will be formed from existing
sectoral officers at provincial and municipal level to manage, implement and monitor sub-projects.



Page 20
A similar blend is planned for the financing facility for LGU sub-projects. The facility itself will be
managed by the Central project management Office (CPMO) with the assistance of MDF which will
be responsible for the financial appraisal, monitoring and auditing of sub-projects. However the
provincial ECD teams will be responsible for recruitment of municipalities and cities and for
providing mayors with technical assistance in proposal planning and preparation, using the specially
designed computer planning software. The provincial ECD teams; also pre-appraise all sub-projects
before they are forwarded to the Regional Project Management Offices (RPMOs) for approval.
Technical supervision of sub-project implementation will be the responsibility of the provincial ECD
teams and the RPMOs. Sub-project Assistance Agreements between the concerned LGU and the
Borrower, through the central PMO, will formalize the execution and management of the sub-project.
This structure is complex and, like all post-Devolution project planning, still experimental in many
respects. However many of its building blocks, such as PMOs, Sub-project Assistance Agreements,
and the concept of regional and provincial teams, are familiar to the implementing agencies and have
functioned adequately in the past. It is therefore expected to be workable. Since the three regions to
be covered under the project will serve as pilots for the LGU financing facility concept, the
management system for the Fund and its adjunct support packages will be reviewed periodically by
DOF and the Bank for efficiency in the light of accumulated experilence, and modified as necessary.
5. Social Assessment:
The project would fall under the Program of Targeted Interventions, being targeted to poor families,
communities and provinces. While women are not directly targeted as beneficiaries under the project, the
heaith, nutrition and education benefits expected to accrue to their children would undoubtedly be
considered by mothers as major gains in their welfare and quality of life. Nation-wide it is estimated that
about 18 percent of the population of the Philippines belongs to indigenous population (IP) groups made up
of seven broad ethnic groupings containing overall more than 60 separate ethnicities (see Map 2: "Location
of Indigenous Peoples Groups" ). Both the broad groupings and individual groups of widely vazying
origins and cultures, with no single group or broad grouping predominating overall. Of the three Regions
where LGU sub-projects are to be carried out, IP groups make up less than five percent of the population in
regions VI and VII, and all belong to the Negrito broad grouping. In Region XII, however, IP groups make
up 60 percent of the population, belonging mainly to the Minganao broad grouping but with an admixture
of the "Muslim Groups" broad grouping.
The special needs of indigenous peoples as regards ECD were studied in a preliminary nation-wide survey
and in the participative consultation process described below in Section 7. The results confirmed the
previously-established picture of wide heterogeneity of cultures and ECD status and special needs across IP
groups and broad groupings, making it impossible to formulate any single detailed strategy for ensuring
that project interventions (either program-wide or at the level of LGU sub-projects) reduce ECD-related
disadvantages among IP communities relative to their non-IP neighboxs. As a broad generalization, IP
groups, because they tend to be poor, remote and marginalized, tend to have below-average ECD indicators
and access to good-quality ECD services. Less important but still of significance for intervention design,
the cultures of some IP communities also have special beliefs or customs requiring some tailoring of ECD
service design and IEC activities to ensure their maximum effectiveness and uptake. The broad principles
of the project's strategy are to improve access to and quality of ECD services to IP communities, including
where necessary new or customized approaches to service delivery. These do not require any change in the
content of the ECD programs which will be strengthened at regional level under the project. However the
specific measures to be taken under LGU sub-projects to improve ECI) service access and to customize
service design will need to be tailored at field-level to the special circumstances of each group if they are to
be successful in improving ECD status and reducing IP disadvantages.



Page 21
The approach adopted under the project will be based on municipality/city-level IP plans and province-level
IP strategies for ECD. All LGU sub-proposals will be obliged to include IP plans for any IP groups
present in the LGU, on the basis of an initial survey and consultation with such groups. To strengthen over
time the capabilities of LGUs to prepare IP plans, the special circumstances and needs of all IP groups in
Regions VI, VII and XII will be ascertained province-by-province no later than December 31, 1998
through special initial surveys and consultations. Province-specific participative IP strategies will then be
prepared by March 31, 1999, including sub-strategies for each IP group separately. Each LGU sub-project
proposal submitted after these sub-strategies are developed will be obliged to reflect in its IP plan the sub-
strategies for all IP groups represented in that LGU; satisfactory provisions for sub-strategy measures will
be checked at sub-project appraisal and required for sub-project approval. The implementation of IP plans
under the LGU sub-projects will be monitored through community-level participatory action research. To
assess the overall impact of project interventions, the provincial-level baseline survey of all IP groups will
be repeated at the end of the project. Full treatment of provisions for LGU sub-projects will be included in
the LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations.
More generally speaking, the overall consultation and beneficiary consultation process carried out during
project preparation revealed few potential social-cultural constraints to acceptance and uptake of
strengthened ECD services. There was a commonly-found ignorance among communities and families of
the importance of intensive psychosocial stimulation of very young children, and of the signs and
consequences of mild to moderate malnutrition in young children, but these issues will be addressed by the
IEC sub-component 2 (a) of the project.
Land for the construction of new daycare centers or health centers under LGU sub-projects will be
provided by the barangay concerned. The need for additional land, not yet owned by the barangays, would
be small. The following two principles adopted by the project will govem the process of obtaining land: (i)
no land will be obtained whose use would require involuntary resettlement, and (ii) only land whose owners
are willing to part with it voluntarily will be obtained, either as a donation or on the basis of a negotiated
price. LGU proposals will mandatorily contain a description of the location and current use of any site
designated for new construction, and, where appropriate, provision for any payment for loss of assets or
loss of livelihood entailed. A certificate for each site will be attached to the sub-project proposal to be
submitted for review and appraisal, providing evidence that (a) the land has been donated or an agreed
price for the land or for deprivation of occupancy or use is to be paid, and (b) no involuntary resettlement is
required. Full treatment of these provisions has been included in the LGU Financing Facility Manual of
Operations.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [] A   []B   [X] C
The project would not have any significant environmental effects.
7. Participatory approach:
At the time of identification, plans were made for a participatory process of consultation designed to feed
into program/project preparation. The process included three phases of consultation with beneficiaries,
communities and LGUs. A grant from the Bank's Participation Fund was used to finance a successful pilot
of the first phase, which was an assessment of beneficiary, community and LGU views and attitudes on
ECD status and needs. The first phase itself was carried out during the first half of 1995 under PHRD
Grant funding, and detailed reports were produced and used by the program/project preparation teams.
The second phase, consisting of consultation with the same parties on the initial program/project proposal,
was carried out during 1997 among indigenous peoples and LGU executives (governors and mayors) under
funding from the second PHRD grant, and is planned shortly for mainstream communities under funding
from ADB. A third phase, consisting of consultation with the same parties to present and promote the final
project and begin the process of participation in its implementation, is scheduled for the pre-implementation



Page 22
and early implementation period. A system to maximize subsequent participation during implementation
will be designed on the basis of the results and findings of the third phase.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The stakeholders in the ECD project include the national line agencies (DSWD, DOH, DECS) and the
LGUs who implement sub-projects. All have compelling motives to sustain project investments and
programs. DSWD will benefit through substantial strengthening of the agency and extension of its
programs and activities. The project will provide critical strengthening of key DOH programs for child
health, which are highly visible and closely monitored by Congress and thie media. DECS will benefit
through investment in additional pre-school inputs, which have been one of their major policy concerns and
priorities. An analysis of the fiscal impact of the project's investments at regional and provincial level
shows them to be eminently sustainable from expected future agency budgets (see Section D.2). These are
also expected to be institutionally sustainable given the strengthening of institutional capacity provided
under Component 2 of the project. Likewise, an analysis of the fiscal impact on LGUs of the strengthened
ECD programs shows them to be affordable after completion of the initial investment portion of the sub-
projects (see Section D.2 ). Institutional sustainability of the national ECD program and strengthened
provincial and LGU-level programs will be addressed through the inputs provided under Component 2 of
the project. On the demand-side, the consultations held during project preparation with officials from
targeted LGUs clearly demonstrated a very high level of interest in participating in the project and invest in
improving ECD programs.



Page 23
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk                                  Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
A. Early Education interventions may fail to    MR   (i) Design and implementation of new or innovative elements in early education programs
deliver expected results regarding improved      (particularly the PES program) will be piloted and evaluated under Component 3 early in project
cognitive development and school-readiness.      (evaluations of existing programs have indicated impact, though limited by current deficiencies which
would be remedied by the project inputs). (ii) International experience and best practices have been
and will continue to be heavily utilized for design and implementation of such interventions, including
through a collaborative research effort with DEC, involving a longitudinal survey of the impact of
early education in three countries.
B. New national PEM program may fail to   MR   As for Early Education, (i) this new program will be piloted and evaluated early in the project under
produce expected impact on child malnutrition    Component 3, and (ii) both international and extensive previous smaller-scale country experience and
(reduction in stunting and wasting).             best practices have been and will be utilized in program design and implementation.
C. There may be changes in DSWD, DOH,      LR   Stable motivation for commitment within each agency has been maximized as far as possible in
DECS, leading to weakened commitnent and         project design as follows: (i) ECD services and packages supported by project have been selected as
ineffective implementation.                      being core interventions given high priority by DSWD, DOH and DECS. (ii) Responsibilities for
implementation of components and sub-components have been allocated among line agencies in line
with agency ownership and stake in programs covered. (iii) Strong links between central, regional
and provincial agency structures and the corresponding project management structures have been
incorporated in project management arrangements.
D. There may unexpectedly prove to be lack of  MR  (i) Intensive and long-term strategies for promoting appreciation of and demand for ECD programs among
strong consistent demand, commitment and/or      both LGUs and beneficiaries (who are voters) have been incorporated in both the preparation process
implementation capacity at LGU level for ECD     (through the three-phase consultations exercises) and project design (Component 2). (ii) The LGU fund is
programs, leading to lack of uptake of           designed around: (a) a participative planning process for sub-projects with core ECD program priorities
sub/projects from LGU fund and/or effective      but maximum flexibility to cover local conditions and needs; (b) a flexible cost-sharing structure that takes
implementation.                                  into account both the experience of previous health projects with LGUs and their financial status, and also
provides an initial test of demand and commitment; (c) direct contracting with LGUs through Sub-project
Assistance Agreements; and (d) heavy technical assistance and support to strengthen LGUs in both the
sub-project design and planning stage, and during and after implementation (Component 2). (iii) Demand
for sub-projects was directly verified during project preparation through statements of general interest,
preparation of several sub-project proposals and six municipal/city council resolutions to authorize sub-
projects; five such resolutions are required as a condition of effectiveness.
Overall Risk Rating S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 24
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
L. Effectiveness Conditions:
1.    The Borrower shall have established: (i) the Project Steering Committee; (ii) the national Project
Management Office within DSWD and designated the national Project Director and the national Project
Coordinator thereof, and (iii) in each Project Region, the regional Project Management Office within the
Regional DSWD Office and designated the regional Project Coordinator thereof;
2.    DSWD and DOF shall have executed a memorandum of agreement to establish the LGU Financing
Facility under MDF, satisfactory to the Bank;
3.    DSWD shall have adopted and put into effect an LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations
satisfactory to the Bank;
4.    The municipal or city councils of at least five LGUs shall have passed resolutions satisfactory to
the Bank, to authorize the respective LGUs to undertake sub-projects; and
5.    The ADB Loan Agreement shall have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to
its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder except only the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled.
H. Other Agreements
The Borrower shall:
6.    (a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the closing date of the project or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed for the continued achievement of the project
objectives; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchamge views with the Borrower on the
said plan.
7.    consult with the Bank in respect of any proposal to modify its 10-Year National Early Childhood
Development Program.
8.    (a) maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project;
(b): (i) have these records and accounts, including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal
year, audited, in accordance with auditing principles acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements
referred to in section (a) of this paragraph for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion of such financial
statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information



Page 25
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank may from time to time reasonably
request;
(c) for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with section
(a) of this paragraph, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that
such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in section (b) of this paragraph and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
9i.   (a) maintain an inter-agency Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary or a duly authorized
representative of DSWD, with a composition to be agreed to with the Bank, to provide overall guidance in
the implementation of the project; and ensure that the Steering Committee shall meet at least once every
calendar quarter to review the progress of the project;
(b) in each of the project Regions, by no later than July 31, 1998 establish and, thereafter,
maintain a Regional Early Childhood Development Team to be headed by the DSWD Regional Director,
vith a composition acceptable to the Bank and with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to
the Bank, to provide guidance to the regional PMO and monitor the implementation of the 10-Year
National Early Childhood Development Program and the project in the Region;
(c) cause each Province within the project Regions to establish by no later han August 31, 1998
and, thereafter, maintain a Provincial Early Childhood Development Team with functions, responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to the Bank, to provide guidance and assistance to the provincial PMO in the
inplementation of the project within such Province;
(d) maintain a national Project Management Office within DSWD, with fimctions, responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed by personnel in adequate number and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to coordinate, supervise and monitor the
inplementation of the project;
(e) by no later than August 31, 1998, appoint, in addition to the national Project Director and
national Project Coordinator, key staff acceptable to the Bank;
(f) in each project Region, maintain a regional Project Management Office within the Regional
DSWD Office, with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed
by personnel in adequate number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, to
coordinate, supervise and monitor the implementation of the project within such project Region;
(g) by no later than August 31, 1998, appoint, in addition to the Regional Project Coordinator, key
staff acceptable to the Bank;
(h) cause each Province in the project Regions to: (i) establish by no later than August 31, 1998
and, thereafter, maintain a provincial Project Management Office, to be headed by a provincial Early
Childhood Development Action Officer; (ii) provide such provincial PMO with functions, responsibilities
and resources acceptable to the Bank, staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number to enable it to
coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project within such Province.
10.   (a) carry out sub-component Lb of the project by establisiiing, through MDF, an LGU Financing
Facility to make available to LGUs a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as grants to finance eligible sub-
projects, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(b) administer the LGU Financing Facility in accordance with principles and procedures set forth
in an LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations satisfactory to the Bank, which shall set forth, inter
alia: (i) the criteria and process for the selection of LGUs eligible for financing under sub-component L .b of



Page 26
the project; (ii) the procedures and criteria for the review, appraisal and approval of sub-projects; (iii) the
policy, guidelines and general procedures to ensure the participation of indigenous peoples in the design and
implementation of sub-projects, and the implementation of the specific early childhood development plans
for indigenous peoples developed by LGUs, when applicable; (iv) the cost-sharing arrangements between
the Borrower and the respective LGUs; and (v) the procedures for monitoring and reporting of activities
under the LGU Sub-projects;
(c) furnish to the Bank for its prior concurrence any proposed revision to the LGU Financing
Facility Manual of Operations.
11.   in respect of each sub-project:
(a) through the national PMO, enter into a Sub-project Assistance Agreement with the eligible
LGU, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall specify the obligations of the LGU in accordance with the LGU
Financing Facility Manual of Operations, including but not limited to its obligations to: (i) implement its
respective sub-project under Sub-component 1 .b of the project; (ii) imLplement the indigenous peoples early
childhood development strategy developed by the respective provincial PMO through its respective sub-
project; (iii) provide, promptly as needed funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its
respective sub-project; and (iv) upon completion of its respective sub-project, allocate adequate resources
to ensure the continuing imnplementation of the objectives of the sub-project;
(b) not make available the proceeds of the Loan for financing such sub-project until the above
Sub-project Assistance Agreement has been entered into with the eligible LGU.
12.   exercise its rights under each such Sub-project Assistance Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the
Bank may agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such agreement or any provision thereof.
13.   (a) prepare and, by November 30 of each year starting in 1998, furnish an annual micronutrient
supplementation program to the Bank for its review and comments; and
(b) thereafter, carry out the annual program through DOH, taking into consideration the Bank's
view thereon.
14.   ensure that no weaning foods be used as food supplements in dhe PEM control program under Sub-
component l.b of the project unless such foods have been submitted to the Bureau of Foods and Drugs of
DOH for quality-assuramce testing and been certified as meeting the applicable Govememnt standards.
15.   prior to approving an investment project for financing as sub-project, require that the LGU
proposing the project develop, if applicable, an indigenous peoples plan in accordance with the policy,
principles and general procedures set forth in the LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations; and
thereafter, ensure that upon its approval, the sub-project shall be imnplemented in accordance with such
plan.
16.   (a) through each provincial PMO, by no later than Decenmber 31, 1998, carry out a baseline
survey of all major groups of indigenous peoples within the province, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank;
(b) ensure that the baseline survey collect quantitative data on the status, knowledge, attitudes,
practices and special needs of each such group in respect of early child development, its access to early
child development services, service utilization, receptivity to the project and willingness to participate in it;
(c) ensure that each provincial PMO hold consultations with each such group;
(d) by no later than March 31, 1999, on the basis of the baseline survey findings, and in
accordance with the policy and procedures set forth in the LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations,
through the Provincial Early Childhood Development Team and the provincial PMO, develop a provincial



Page 27
indigenous peoples early childhood development strategy acceptable to the Bank which will incorporate
distinct strategies for each major group of indigenous peoples within the Province, as may be necessary;
(e) thereafter, ensure that the baseline survey findings and provincial indigenous peoples early
childhood development strategy are applied by the LGUs in their development of indigenous peoples plans.
17.   (a) by September 30, 1998, formulate a training program for Sub-component 2.c of the project in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such training program to the Bank
for its review and comments;
(b) thereafter, carry out the program taking into consideration the Bank's view on the matter.
18.   by no later than September 30, 1998, put into effect its Financial Information System for Foreign-
Assisted Projects.
19.   by no later than July 31, 1998:
(a) under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (i) complete the design for the National
Nutrition Survey to be carried out in 1998; and (ii) formulate the evaluation protocol for the pilot programs
for PEM control and for parent effectiveness services under Sub-component L.a of the project; and
(b) provide the design and the evaluation protocol to the Bank for its review and comment and,
thereafter, put them into effect in carrying out the National Nutrition Survey and in evaluating Sub-
component l.a of the project, taking into account the Bank's view thereon.
20.   (a) carry out the studies and surveys under Component 3 of the project in accordance with terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) provide the Bank for its review and comments the results and recommendations of such studies
and surveys.
21.   in respect of Sub-Component 3.a of the Project:
(a) closely monitor the piloting of new early child development interventions and service delivery
systems; and
(b) by December 31, 1999, prepare under tenns of reference acceptable to the Bank and provide
to the Bank for its review and comment an evaluation of each such pilot intervention.
22.   (a) by December 31, 1998, carry out a baseline survey in respect of early childhood development
and the quality and level of related services in the project Regions, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank;
(b) by June 30, 1999, review with the Bank the findings of the survey with the view to, as the case
may be, confinn the key perfornance indicators, baseline values and targets acceptable to the Bank or to
modify such indicators, baseline values and targets in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) by June 30, 2004, carry out a repeat survey under terns of reference acceptable to the Bank
for the purpose of evaluating the achievements and impact of the project.
23.   (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators and targets acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of its objectives;
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about
July 31 and January 31 of each year, commencing in July 1998, a report integrating the results of the above
monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project during the
period preceding the date of each such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of its objectives during the period following such
dates;



Page 28
(c)  on or about September 30, 2000, carry out a mid-term review under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, of the progress achieved in the carrying-out of the project during the period
preceding such date and setting out measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying-out of the
project and the achievement of its objectives during the period following such date; and
(d) review with the Bank, within one month following the date of each such report, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, each of the above reports, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, based on the
conclusions and reco_mendations of such report and the Bank's views on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The Project Implementation Plan was appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations, which was substantially complete but requiring final
editing, was appraised and found to be of satisfactory quality.
The following items are lacking or not completed and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
LGU Sub-project Operational Manual: plan for evaluation of PES and PEM Programs: design of baseline
nutrition surveys; provincial baseline surveys and strategies for indigenous peoples groups; baseline and
final evaluation survey.
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[xl This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/lask Manager: Althea Hill
Sector Manager/Director: Maureen Law
Country Manager/Director: Vinay Bhargava



Annex 1
Page I
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Project Design Summary I
Project           Broad Project      Key Indicator (regional
Development           Approaches       level for Regions 6,7 and
Objectives                               12, separately and            Target                 Source        W/ or W/o Controls
weighted average)
1. To contribute to the   1. Upgrade central    Under 5 mortality rate  Reduce by 30% from  Baseline and final    with controls (matched
attainment of human    ECD programs in                              baseline value           surveys              provinces from other
development goals by   project regions                                                                            regions)
providing services that  through region-wide
ensure survival and   additional critical  Combined index of child   Combined index of child   Baseline study     with controls
promote the physical    inputs in:         development (motor and   development (motor and   developing this      (matched provinces
and mental develop-                        cognitive)               cognitive)              indicator and         from other regions)
ment of Filipino
children, particularly
those who are most    *  Expanded          Proportion of children   90% of children in that    Baseline and final  with controls (matched
vulnerable and most       Program of       aged 12 to 18 months     age group                surveys, EPI service   provinces from other
disadvantaged.            Immunization     fully immunized                                   statistics for mnidterm   regions)
year
*  Integrated
Management of
Child Illness
*  Micronutrients/   Proportion of children  Reduce by 30% from       Baseline and final   with controls for
Food fortification  under 6 with anemia   baseline value          surveys (annual       baseline and final
haemoglobin survey   surveys (matched
for m-idtermn year)  provinces from other
________________________  _____________________                                       ~~~~~~ ~~ ~~regions)



Annex 1
Page 2
Project            Broad Project     Key Indicator (regional
Development           Approaches       level for Regions 6,7 and
Objectives                               12, separately and            Target                 Source         W/ or W/o Controls
weighted average)
*  Parent            Combined index of child   Targeted improvement to   Baseline study     with controls (matched
Effectiveness    development (motor and    be determined during    developing this      provinces from other
Service          cognitive)               baseline study developing  indicator and repeat   regions)
this indicator          final survey
*  Grade I           Completion rate for     70% of children entering   DECS statistics for    with controls (matched
Curriculum       Grade I                  Grade I                  baseline, final and  provinces from other
Enrichment                                                         years                regions)
2. Provide financing
facility for LGU sub-
projects to upgrade
ECD services,
including new
features:
0
*  upgraded PES      Combined index of child   Targeted improvement to   Baseline study     with controls (matched
program          development (motor and    be determined during    developing this      provinces trom other
cognitive)              baseline study developing  indicator and repeat   regions)
this indicator          final survey
*  new PEM           Proportion of children  Decrease by 40% from     NNS 1998 and 2003    with controls (matched
program          with grade 2 and 3 wasting  baseline value        surveys; growth      provinces from other
monitoring service   regions)
statistics for midterm
year
new CDW worker to   Proportion of            50% of municipalities/   Project MIS and       without controls
manage these two     municipalities/ cities with  cities              special final survey
above programs       active CDWs



Atnriex 1
Page 3
Project            Broad Project      Key Indicator (regional
Development           Approaches        level for Regions 6,7 and
Objectives                                12, separately and           Target                  Source         W/ or W/o Controls
weighted average)
2. To establish an     1. Provide financing    Proportion of targeted  90% of                 Project MIS           without controls
effective partnership    facility for LGU ECD   municipalities/cities who   rnunicipalities/cities
between national and    sub-projects, as    have implemented ECD
local governments in    above.              subprojects
the provision of ECD
services               2. Provide support to   Proportion of children  75% of children in that  DSWD statistics for    with controls (matched
LGUs in designing    aged 3 to 5 in targeted  age-group                baseline, midtern and  provinces from other
and implementing     municipalities attending                          final years, plus    regions)
sub-projects in the  daycare centers                                   baseline and final
areas of:                                                              surveys                                     OQ
*  IEC               Proportion of            50% of                   Project MIS and      without controls        F-
*  Planning,         municipalities/cities with  in unicipalities/cities  special final survey
Targeting and    active CDWs
MIS
*  Training          Proportion of            50% of targeted          Project MIS and      without controls
*  Management        municipalities/cities with   municipalities/cities  special final survey
functioning PEM
pro- ns in 2003



Page 32
Annex 1
Page 4
Project Design Summary II
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators        Monmitoring and       Critical Assumptions
(Note: Baseline Values of Key     Suipervision              and Risks
Indiicators WflU Be Verified at
BaseUne Survey and Target Values
Re-Assessed/Determined) I
CAS Objective                                                                     (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Assumption
To assist in the design and    Indicators of the breadth and  Methodology and      Poverty alleviation in
implementation of more    depth of poverty similar to those   instruments for poverty    Philippines will require
effective and efficient   used in "A Strategy to Fight    measurement and         sustained broad economic
mechanisms for poverty    Poverty: Philippines".          monitoring as laid out in   growth and development
alleviation while upgrading                               Annex A to "A Strategy    as a basis for specific
the quality of social services                            to fight Poverty:       anti-poverty
available to the poor                                     Philippines".           interventions.
Project Development                                                                    (Development
Objectives                                                                           Objectives to CAS
Objective)
Risks
To contribute to the     Reduction in the under-five      Baseline, end-project   Attainment of human
attainment of human      mortality rate                   surveys                 development goals, in
development goals by                                                              part through improved
providing services that  Reduction in the prevalence of                           early child develop-ment,
ensure survival and      wasting and stunting             Baseline, mid-term, end-   and effective central/local
promote the physical and                                  project surveys         partnership in ECD
mental development of    Reduction in the prevalence of                           service delivery, may not
Filipino children,       micro-nutrient deficiencies (iron,    Baseline, mid-term, end-   alleviate poverty
particularly those who are  iodine, vitamin A)            project surveys         significantly unless
most vulnerable and most                                                          accompanied by overall
disadvantaged.                                                                    economic growth and
development
Effective central/local
To establish an effective    Percent of targeted municipalities    Project records  partnership in ECD
partnership between      who have implemented ECD                                 service delivery may not
national and local       investment packages                                      result in upgraded quality
governments in the                                                                of social services unless
provision of ECD services.  Increase in the spending of                           accompanied by adequate
municipalities on ECD services.    Baseline, nmid-term, end-  IRA allocations to poor
project studies         LGUs
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project
and full impact.



Page 33
Annex 1
Page 5
Project Outputs                                                                     Outputs to Devip.
Objectives)
Risks
Improved Child Health     Improvement in the percentage of  Baseline, mid-term, end-   Changes in DOH leading
Programs in the three    fully immunized children in the    project surveys plus EPI   to weakened commitment
project regions           three project regions          program statistics      and ineffective
implementation
Improved micronutrient    Decrease in the proportion of  Nutrition baseline and  Changes in DOH leading
status of children in the  children with deficiencies in iron,  end-project surveys  to weakened commitment
three project regions    iodine and vitamin A                                    and ineffective
implementation
Imprcved access to foods    Proportion of foods purchased by   Annual community  Changes in the economy
fortified with iron, iodine,   families which are fortified  monitoring surveys in  or food industry reducing
vitamin A                                                LGUs with sub-projects   industry's current interest
in food fortification as a
selling point and social
contribution
Establishment of improved   Reduced drop-out rates from  DECS program statistics   Changes in DECS leading
Grade 1 curriculum in three   Grade I                                            to weakened commitment
project regions                                                                  and ineffective
implementation
Improved ECD Services in   Percent of targeted municipalities   Project records  Changes in the economy
at least 69 municipalities in   who have implemented ECD                         or Govermment leading to
at least 10 provinces,   investment packages                                     reduced IRA and other
including the PEM and                                                           revenues for LGUs
upgraded PES programs
Reduction in rates of stunting and  Program statistics plus  Changes in economy or
wasting                        baseline and end-project   Government policies
nutrition surveys       leading to increased levels
of poverty and lower
Percent of municipalities with a    Project records plus end-  educational levels
functioning PEM program        project nutrition survey
Percent of municipalities with an   Project records plus end-   Failure of new PEM
active CDW worker              project survey          program to produce
expected impact on child
malnutrition
Increase in the percentage of  Program statistics plus  Changes in DSWD
municipalities with a functioning   project records    leading to weakened
day care center of acceptable                          commitment and
quality                                               ineffective
implementation



Page 34
Annex 1
Page 6
Improvement in School Readiness  Baseline and end-project   Failure of upgraded PES
surveys plus DEC        program to produce
longitudinal survey     expected impact on child
cognitive development
and school readiness
Failure of day care center
interventions to deliver
expected results regarding
cognitive improvement
and school readiness
Project Components                 US$ millions                                       (Components to
Outputs)
1. Service Delivery                   34.9                                                Risks
a. Program Support                   9.5                Program Statistics from  Changes in DOH,
for Provincial LGUs                                   DOH, DS'WD and DECS   DSWD or DECS
Project M;IS           leading to weakened
commitment and
ineffective
implementation.
b. LGU Support Fund                    25.4                     Project MIS       Unanticipated changes in
beneficiary attitudes
leading to lack of demand
or uptake of strengthened
services
2. Support to Service                  12.3
Delivery
a. IEC Support                        1.3                     ProJect MIS       Unanticipated changes in
beneficiary attitudes
leading to resistance to
IEC activities
b. Planning Support                  3.7                      Project MIS
c. Training and                      3.5                      Project MIS
Human Develop-
ment Support
d. Management                        3.8                      Project MIS
Support



Page 35
Annex 1
Page 7
3. Research and                     3.6
Development
a. Pilots of Project               0.2                    Project MIS
Interventions
b. New and Innovative              1.9                    Project MIS
Approaches
c. Monitoring and                  1.5                    Project MIS
Evaluation of Project



Page 36
Annex 2
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Detailed Project Description
Introduction
The project focuses on the upgrading and extension of ECD services. The overall approach, for
reasons of political acceptability, simplicity and ease of implementation, and minimization of
costs and implementation risks, is to build upon existing ECD programs and experience in the
Philippines. This means upgrading and extending well-established programs of adequate design,
such as the Child Survival, Day-Care Center and Parent Effectiveness programs; using
experience from programs that have not worked or lasted to design, test, evaluate and establish an
improved program, such as the new national PEM program; and trying out new programs only
where no established program exists, such as the Day-Care Mother program. The progress of all
new or substantially upgraded programs or interventions, such as PEM, PES, Day Care Mothers,
food fortification, iron supplementation and IMCI, will be reviewed at the end of the first year of
project implementation.
The Package of ECD Services
ECD services which are or will be provided in the three project regions under the ECD program
and project include:
Child Survival Programs: These provide basic preventive health care to young children. The
most important are: the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) which immunizes against
tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid, diphtheria, polio, measles and sometimes other diseases; the
Control of Acute Respiratory Infections (CARI) program, vhich screens for and treats
pneumonia with antibiotics; the Control of Diarrheal Diseases (CDD) program, which promotes
and provides oral rehydration therapy as a palliative treatment for diarrhea; and the micronutrient
initiative which provides iron, iodine and vitamin A supplements to mothers and children. To
these existing staple programs, implemented worldwide, is to be added the Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness initiative, which seeks to integrate and improve the treatment
of sick children. The core provider of these programs is the Rural Health Midwife (RHM),
assisted by volunteer Barangay Health Workers (BHWs). The implementing agency for child
health programs is DOH (Matemal and Child Health Service).
Protein-Energy Malnutrition (PEM) Program: This new programr, which was preceded by many
smaller-scale programs, will screen all children aged 6 months to two years for faltering growth
or established wasting or stunting, provide food supplements for a limited period (as a nutritious
snack food) to children in need, and educate families on correct child feeding practices. The core
provider will be the new Child Development Worker (CDW), in partnership with the RHM (who
does some infant and child growth monitoring) and the BHWs; the CDWs will be recruited from
the existing limited cadre of Barangay Nutrition Scholars (BNSs) if present, and if not, from
BHWs or other outreach workers or community members. The program will be piloted in the
first year of the project in five sub-projects and evaluated at the end of a year. The implementing
agency for nutrition programs is DOH (Nutrition Service).
Food Fortification Program: This new initiative is expected gradually to take over coverage of
most of the country's micronutrient supplement needs and eventually to be almost entirely



Page 37                           Annex 2
Page 2
financed by the food industry. It would work with the industry to develop fortification of suitable
mass-produced staple foodstuffs with iron, iodine and vitamin A, and support limited transition
costs including information, education and communication activities. The implementing agency
is DOH (Nutrition Service).
Day-Care Center Program: This national program, instituted by Congress, mandates by law the
establishment of at least one Day-Care Center (actually a pre-school) in every barangay. One
Day-Care center is supposed to serve 60 children aged three to five years through two daily half-
day classes of 30 children each. The centers are run by Day-Care Workers (DCWs), one per 60
children. Not more than half the country's barangays currently yet have a Day-Care Center. The
implementing agency is DSWD.,
Parent Effectiveness Service (PES): This national program provides training and promotion for
parents in how to provide effective psychosocial stimulation for their young children and hence
enhance their cognitive development. The core providers are DCWs and Social Welfare Officers
(SWOs) but the spread of the program is still extremely limited. Under the project it will be
extended and upgraded with a focus on children aged zero to two years, and the core provider
will be the CDW. The program will be piloted in the first year of the project in five sub-projects
and evaluated at the end of a year.
Day-Care Mothers (DCMs): This new and experimental program will provide day care for
young children of working mothers, with some psychosocial stimulation input included. The
core providers will be trained community mothers, assisted by the CDW.
Improved Grade 1 Curriculum including Pre-School Elements: This new national curriculum
will focus on an eight-week pre-school module at the start of first grade, as a part of the first-
grade standard curriculum. It is intended to compensate for the lack of pre-schooling among
most school entrants. The providers will be first-grade teachers.
Outline of the Project
Component 1: ECD Service Delivery (base cost US$34.9 million)
Sub-Component 1.A: Program Support for Provincial LGUs. This sub-component consists of
five packages , comprising support to all provinces in the three project Regions for five
programs, namely the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI), the Integrated Management of
Child Illness (IMCI) Program, the Micronutrient Malnutrition Prevention and Control Program,
the Parent Effectiveness Service (PES) Program, and the Grade 1 Early Child Experience/Early
Child Development (ECE/ECD) Program.
The Expanded Program of Immunization package will supply crucial needed additional inputs to
the EPI program in all the provinces of the three project regions, including replacement cold-
chain equipment, training of cold-chain technicians in cold-chain management, maintenance and
repair, and training of primary health care staff in basic EPI skills. The project will finance the
cost of: freezers, refrigerators, icepack freezers, voltage regulators, cold boxes, icepacks and
thermometers for provincial, municipal and city health offices, and refrigerators, transport boxes,
vaccine carriers, icepacks, thermometers and voltage regulators for rural health units:
maintenance and repair costs for the above equipment during the life of the project; and training
courses in basic EPI skills for newly-appointed and selected in-service RHMs. This package
would be managed by the DOH Maternal and Child Health service.



Page 38                          Annex 2
Page 3
The Integrated Management of Child Illness package will support the initiation in the Philippines
of the World Health Organization (WHO)-supported IMCI program, which aims to improve the
diagnosis, management and treatment of common childhood conditions such as pneumonia,
diarrheal disease, dengue, malaria, tuberculosis, anemia and malnutrition. The package will
provide in-service IMCI training for doctors, nurses and midwives, support the integration of
IMCI into the curricula of medical, nursing and midwifery schools, and supply delivery and diet
kits to improve case-management of conditions affecting the new-born. The project will finance
the cost of: IMCI training planning workshops in the project regions and provinces; training of
IMCI trainers; IMCI training equipment and materials; workshops to plan, develop and evaluate
pre-service IMCI training for medical, nursing and midwifery schools; in-service IMCI training
courses for doctors, nurses, RHMs at city health centers, rural health units and barangay health
stations; follow-up and supervision of trained health providers by IMCI trainers; incremental
IMCI-related equipment for health units (e.g., pediatric cuffs for sphygmamometers, nebulizers
and pneumatic otoscopes); and IMCI orientation seminars for first-level referral hospital staff.
The package would be managed by the DOH Maternal and Child Health Service).
The Micronutrient Malnutrition Prevention and Control package will prevent, manage and
control major micronutrient deficiencies (in iron, iodine and vitamin A) in the Philippines
through a mix of direct supplementation, food fortification and deworming of children. The
overall strategy is to phase out direct supplementation, except for special high-risk groups such as
pregnant women, over the life of the project, and correspondingly promote comprehensive
industry-financed fortification of staple foodstuffs (salt, sugar, flour, rice, oil), backed by regular
deworming. The package would support a program of interim iron supplementation (the current
gap in DOH's micronutrient supplementation program) on a declining basis, deworming, and
promotion of industry-financed fortification of staple foodstuffs with major micronutrients. The
provision of supplements of iodine, vitamin A and current small amounts of iron out of regular
DOH budgets would continue in parallel. All supplementation would be gradually phased out
during the life of the project, with declines planned annually according to monitoring data on
matching expansion in coverage of needs through food fortification. The project would finance
the costs of: iron supplements for pregnant and lactating mothers., low-birthweight infants and all
6-month-old infants; weighing scales for infants to identify low..birthweight babies; deworming
tablets for children aged 2-6 years; materials and activities for advocacy and promotion among
food producing companies of the fortification of salt, sugar, oil, rice and flour with iodine,
vitamin A and iron; and materials and activities for social marketing to promote consumer
acceptance and preference of fortified foods. The package would be managed by DOH
(Nutrition Service).
The Parent Effectiveness Service package will upgrade the current PES program through
introduction of a Mother and Child book, which provides a permanent record of child growth and
development from birth to sixth birthday, and reproduction and distribution of an epdated version
of a parent's manual on early child development developed for an earlier project. Further
upgrading of the PES will be carried out in the context of LGU sub-projects, where the new cadre
of Child Development Workers will be trained as the key PES provider and will be responsible
for community-based parent education and a psychosocial stimulation program for children aged
0-3 years. The project will finance the costs of: design, production, printing and distribution of
the Mother and Child Book; and reproduction and distribution of parent's manual on early child
development. The package would be managed by DSWD in coordination with DECS, who will
incorporate it into its Teacher-Child-Parent program, and DOH lProvincial Health Offices, who
will incorporate it into its health education program.
The Grade I ECE/ECD package will improve the child-readiness of elementary schools through



Page 39                          Annex 2
Page 4
Region-wide introduction of an already pilot-tested enriched Grade I curriculum that contains an
8-week "Early Child Experiences"(ECE) module incorporating more innovative and participatory
approaches, as well as complementary health and nutrition inputs to first-graders consisting of
iron supplementation and deworming. The project will finance the costs of: refinement and
finalization of the 8-week module and the modified Grade 1 curriculum containing it: design,
production, printing and distribution of teaching materials related to the 8-wveek module and the
new Grade I curriculum; training of trainers for the new curriculum; in-service training of
teachers in the new curriculum; the reproduction and distribution of training and teaching
materials; iron supplements for Grade I entrants; and deworming tablets for Grade I entrants.
The package would be managed by the Department of Education, Culture and Sport (DECS).
Sub-Component l3.B: Financing Facility for Municipal/City Local Government Unit (LGU)
ECD  Sub-Projects.  This financing facility, which will operate through the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF), will provide matching financing, on a flexible cost-sharing basis
geared to LGU income levels but with full funding by LGUs of major recurrent costs, for LGUs
who wish to invest in upgrading of their ECD services. LGUs would, with technical support
from the project, submit proposals for three-year investment packages for appraisal, and
implement them once approved. The fund would cover three Regions, namely Regions VI, VII
and XII, containing a majority of the country's poorest children. It would be open to all LGUs in
the three regions, but over 80 percent of the funds available would be reserved for the 10
provinces and 169 cities and municipalities with the greatest number of needy and at-risk
children; these LGUs would be targeted for active recruitment. A region from Mindanao was
included as a contribution to Government's new development initiative there. Some new and
innovative elements of the investment packages, such as the new protein-energy malnutrition
(PEM) control program, would also be pilot-tested in five selected LGUs during the first year of
the project under Component 3 (Research & Development). The generic cost-sharing formula is
shown below:
LGU Income Class     % Grant       % Equity
1st Class                40             60     l
2nd & 3rd Class           60            40
4th to 6th Class          80            20
Standardization and quality of proposals for sub-projects would be achieved through use of
specially-designed computer-based planning software which is designed, with accompanying
technical assistance from specially trained members of the provincial ECD team, to help mayors
and their planning teams in formulating their ECD investment packages. This planning tool is
based upon a standard complete set of ECD services, including workers, facilities, equipment and
supplies, together with a set of standard ECD key indicators which are assembled in advance for
each municipality or city. The mayor and municipal/city planning team employs the user-
friendly software to identify current performance on ECD indicators and current gaps in ECD
services, then chooses from among the available ECD packages an affordable and appropriate
investment package for that municipality/city. The software also includes a template for
immediate preparation of the proposal document itself, and would be further used during
implementation for monitoring of progress in the sub-project.
The core of the investment packages would be supplementation or upgrading of barangay-level
ECD service providers to form an integrated ECD team, including rural health midwives
(RHMs), day-care workers (DCWs), day-care moms (DCMs), barangay health workers (BHWs)
and child development workers (CDWs). Facilities, equipment and drugs and needed supplies
such as drugs, food supplements, teaching materials and IEC materials would also be provided to



Page 40                             Annex 2
Page 5
achieve specified service norms. The team would provide a set of integrated ECD services,
comprising child health services (including micronutrent supplementation), a program to control
protein-energy calorie malnutrition , parent effectiveness services to promote psychosocial
stimulation for children under 3, Day-Care Center early education, and day-care for children of
working mothers.
This sub-component would be managed by the Department of Social Welfare and Development
(DSWD).
Component 2: Support to Service Delivery (base cost US$12.3 million)
This component would provide support to LGUs in implementing their investment packages in
the areas of communications (advocacy, information, education, communication, for LGU
executives, opinion leaders and decision makers, ECD providers and parents), planning,
targeting and management information systems (MIS), training and human resource
development, and institutional development. Support would be provided at the central, regional,
provincial and municipal levels. There would be four sub-components, covering respectively
communications, planning/targeting and MIS, training, and strengthening and support of the
management capacity of LGUs, the project management structure, and the Council for the
Welfare of Children (CWC), which is expected to become the apex agency for the national ECD
program in the longer term. This sub-component would be managed by DSWD, in coordination
with a mix of agencies, and NGOs, as appropriate.
There would be four sub-components, as follows:
Sub-Component 2.A: Support to Communications. This sub-component would support:
advocacy for increased LGU investment in ECD services, aimed at LGU leaders and LGU and
national agency officials; the promotion of correct delivery of ECD services, aimed at providers,
their supervisors and community leaders; and general IEC to promote optimum ECD-related
behavior, aimed at mothers, caregivers, and those who influence them. The project would
finance the costs of: development of IEC strategies, plans,. messages and campaigns;
development, production and distribution of IEC materials; conduct of IEC campaigns and
activities; and monitoring and evaluation of JEC materials and activities.
Sub-Component 2.B: Support to Planning, Targeting and MIS. This sub-component would
support the planning, targeting, and monitoring and evaluation of LGU ECD investment
packages. The project would finance the costs of: developing, fielding and modifying as
necessary the computer-based planning tool to be used for investment package design and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E); strengthening of planning and targeting capacity through
training, technical assistance and upgrading of equipment and facilities; and strengthening of MIS
systems through system improvement and redesign as needed and provision of technical
assistance, equipment and upgrading of facilities.
Sub-Component 2.C: Support to Training. This sub-component would support training in the
new integrated ECD system, services and workloads for: field-level ECD service providers; their
supervisors; members of ECD planning, monitoring and coordination teams; trainers and trainers
of trainers; and ECD program and project management staff. The project would finance the costs
of: development of competency standards for trainees; development of courses and curricula,
including teaching and reference materials; conduct of training needs assessments for primary
care providers and their supervisors; identification and contracting of a pool of trainers of trainers
and training network in project regions and provinces; establishment of a national ECD training



Page 41                       Annex 2
Page 6
accreditation system; and the training of the above categories of trainees.
Sub-Component 2.D: Support to Institutional Development. This sub-component would
support the development of capacity to manage and operate effective ECD services at all levels
of Government, as well as of the capacity of communities and families to participate in the
planning and implementation of ECD services on a sustained basis. The project would finance
the costs of: the upgrading of CDC to function effectively as the apex agency for ECD policy and
program coordination and oversight, including technical assistance, training, equipment, and
facilities upgrading if needed; and the establishment and operation of the ECD program and
project management structure at all levels, including technical assistance, training, facilities
upgrading if needed, equipment, salaries of contractual personnel, and operating costs.
Component 3: Research and Development (R&D) (base cost US$3.6 million)
This component would finance R&D activities needed to support effective ECD program/project
implementation, including initial piloting of new field-level technical interventions proposed
under the project. There would be three sub-components, the first covering piloting of project
interventions, the second consisting of unprogrammed financing for research and testing of new
and innovative approaches to ECD services, and the third covering monitoring and evaluation of
the effectiveness and impact of the project, including baseline and end-project evaluation
surveys. This component would be managed by DSWD in coordination with CWC, and a mix of
agencies as appropriate. There would be three sub-components, as follows:
Sub-Component 3.A: Pilot-testing of Project Interventions. This sub-component would
finance the pilot testing of the new interventions and service delivery systems. Major pilots to
be carried out early in the project would be of the new PEM program, the upgraded PES
program, and the new, improved ECD service delivery package itself. These pilots would be
carried out over a three-year period, beginning in the first year of the project, in 5 "laboratory"
LGUs selected for commitment to ECD, willingness to participate in experimental studies,
managerial capacity, and commitment to sustaining successful models after the pilot is over.
Sub-Component 3.B: Program Innovation and Policy Development. This sub-component
would provide financing for research and testing of innovative approaches to the design,
technical content and provision of ECD services. Topics would include technological studies on
double fortification with iron and vitamin A, loan schemes for small salt producers to iodize,
distance education approaches to ECD training,  best practices in preschool education,
experimentation with alternative ECD delivery systems in remote indigenous peoples'
communities, home-based alternatives to the day-care system of preschool, etc., as well as other
research interests that may emerge during the project.
Sub-Component 3.C: Project Monitoring and Evaluation. This sub-component would support
studies and surveys to measure the effectiveness and impact of the project. It would include
baseline surveys at national and regional level: matching end-of-project evaluative surveys; a
limited mid-term survey if considered useful; KAP surveys; special nutrition baseline and end-
project surveys incorporated into the 1998 and 2003 National Nutrition Surveys; annual
haemoglobin surveys; annual community-based food fortification monitoring surveys; special
baseline and end-project consultative surveys in indigenous peoples' communities; and a
collaborative longitudinal study with DEC to assess the impact of early education interventions.
This component would be managed by DSWD in coordination with CWC, and implemented by a
mix of agencies as appropriate.



Page 42
Annex 3
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                              Local         Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1. ECD Service Delivery
a. Program Support for Provincial LGUs                        7.0            2.5          9.5
b. Financing Facility for Municipal/City LGU ECD            18.1             7.3         25.4
Sub-Projects
Subtotal                                                                                  34.9
2. Support to LGU Sub-Projects
a. Communications Support                                     1.3            0.0          1.3
b. Planning, Targeting & MIS Support                          1.5             2.2         3.7
c. Training Support                                           3.1             0.4         3.5
d. Institutional Development                                  3.4             0.4         3.8
Subtotal                                                                                  12.3
3. Research and Development
a. Pilot Testing of Project Interventions                     0.1             0.1         0.2
b. Program Innovation and Policy Development                  1.7            0.2          1.9
c. Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation                          1.2            0.4          1.6
Subtotal                                                                                   3.6
Taxes and Duties                                                1.7             0.0         1.7
Contingencies                                                   5.3             0.9         6.2
Total Project Cost                                           44.3            14.5         58.8



Page 43                                 Annex 3
Page 2
Project Financing Plan
Project Component                                 Total Project      Bank            ADB              Govt
Nati.    LGUs
----------------------------------US $ million ------------ -------------------------
1. ECD Service Delivery
a. Program Support for Provincial LGUs              9.5             4.6             4.9
b. Financing Facility for Municipal/City           25.4             5.4             8.7         5.7      5.6
LGU ECD Sub-Projects
;Subtotal                                          34.9            10.0            13.6         5.7      5.6
2. Support to LGU Sub-Projects
a. Communications Support                          1.3              1.3
b. Planning, Targeting & MIS Support               3.7              3.7
c. Training Support                                3.5              0.4                        3.1
d. Institutional Development                       3.8                             3.8
Subtotal                                          12.3              5.4            3.8         3.1
3. Research and Development
a. Pilot Testing of Project Interventions           0.2             0.2
b. Program Innovation and Policy                    1.9                             1.9
Development
c. Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation                 15             1.5
Subtotal                                            3.6             1.7             1.9
Taxes and Duties                                      1.7                                         1.7
Contingencies                                         6.2             1.9            2.4          1.2      0.7
Total Project Cost                                58.8             19.0           21.7         11.7      6.4



Page 44
Annex 4
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Economic Analysis
A. FISCAL IMPACT/COST RECOVERY
Unit Costs With and Without the Project
The large majority of inputs for project subcomponents funded through the national departments are
investment rather than recurrent costs. Future capital costs are insignificant. At the national agency level,
annual recurrent costs at the end of the project are for materials, supplies, operations, and maintenance of
equipment supplied to the 13 provinces in the three regions, amounting toP-2.6 million per year (Table 2).
These costs fall under various subcomponents including Child Survival (cold chain repair and
maintenance), Micronutrients and Food Fortification (iron supplements, food fortification IEC materials),
Communications (materials and supplies, repair and maintenance of equipment), Planning, Targeting, and
MIS (software upgrades, repair and maintenance of equipment, communications), and Institutional
Development (supplies, communications).
At the local government level, end-of-project recurrent costs consist of food supplements and caregiver
incentives, and are estimated at P-78.6 million spread over the participating LGUs, or less than 7.5 pesos
per capita. The amount of annual recurrent costs will vary by LGU according to the level and type of
services provided, which largely will be determined by population size and the discretion of the
autonomous LGUs.
Table 2. Annual End of Project Recurrenit Costs
Cost Component          Level of Government  Annual Recurrent Cost in 2003 (P millions)
Material and Supplies            NG                           0.8
Operations and Maintenance       NG                           1.8
Food Supplements                LGUs                         34.6
Caregiver Incentives            LGUs                          44
Total Annual Costs            NG & LGUs                      81.2
Pricing Policy With and Without the Project
Project support that will strengthen programs in all of the provinces in the three regions, particularly child
survival programs (EPI, CDD, ARI) and early education (8 week early education curriculum in Grade 1)
will be provided with public financing with no cost recovery or user fees to offset the costs of government
provision. Historically, it has long been recognized in the Philippines that there are large public benefits
associated with the consumption of these mixed public/private goods. ;Because of the large public benefits



Page 45                              Annex 4
Page 2 of 18
obtained from the control of contagious diseases and early education, the project does not propose to alter
this policy with cost recovery schemes.
Project components funded through LGU sub-projects include the provision of food supplements, day care
services and parent effectiveness services (PES). Food supplements will be provided at the local level to
severely malnourished children in targeted poor rural areas of the Philippines. Equity criteria for provision
of food and nourishment should override any consideration of cost recovery for the provision of these
goods which are essential for basic survival.
Day care services and PES likely are mixed public/private goods, but public benefits are not well proven.
As near private goods, cost recovery may be economically justified in combination with some level of
public subsidy. There is little, if any, documentation on cost recovery or fees for day care services in the
P'hilippines.1 An important equity issue for day care that needs to be addressed is whether poor working
rnothers should be expected to pay. Based on cost recovery experiences for day care, the project will
develop and test pilot schemes in conjunction with project LGUs.
IPES is an existing program designed to train parents to provide appropriate child stimulation, and the
project will support training of CDWs to provide the training to parents. Although PES training is a
private good, the program is still a new experimental program. Once the technical issues for providing
PES are resolved and adequate IEC promotes the benefits of the training, pilot testing of fees for the
iraining can be developed for cost recovery. Like day care fees, however, the decision to implement any
cost recovery scheme will remain the prerogative of each autonomous LGU.
Can the Government Afford it?
Can the national government (NG) line departments and the LGUs afford the annual recurrent project
costs in a sustained manner beyond the life of the project? The question needs to be addressed at the two
levels of government involved in the project because the NG agencies have distinctly different activities
than the autonomous LGUs and, therefore, different post-project financial responsibilities for
sustainability.
Can the national departments afford it? The NG stakeholders in the ECD project include DSWD,
DOH, and DECS. All have compelling motivation to sustain project investments and programs. DSWD
will benefit through substantial strengthening of the department and extension of its programs and
activities. The project will provide critical strengthening of key DOH national programs for child survival,
micronutrients and food fortification, which are highly visible and closely monitored by Congress and the
media. DECS will benefit through investment in additional pre-school inputs, which has been a major
policy concern and priority.
An analysis of the fiscal impact and sustainability of the project's investments at the national agency level
shows them to be easily sustainable from expected future national department budgets (Table 3). Because
of the overwhelming proportion of investment costs and minimal end-of-project recurrent costs for NG
project components, recurrent costs for national level departments beyond the life of the project are
minimal.
Total annual end of project recurrent costs for the national departnents amount tol22.6 million per year, or
less than one one-hundredth of one percent (.01 percent) of the national departments' combined annual
I    A study of cost recovery schemes for ECD activities funded by UNICEF to describe the cost recovery experiences in the
Philippines for day care was not yet available at the time of this report.



Page 46                             Annex 4
Page 3 of 18
recurrent budgets in 2003 (about -82 billion). The executing agency, DSWD, has the largest share of NG
recurrent project costs (R 1.4 million, or 25 percent of the total) and the smallest recurrent budget ( 1,777
million), yet recurrent end-of-project costs represent less than one-tenth of one percent (.08 percent) of its
annual recurrent budget. The national level components also are expected to be institutionally sustainable
given the strengthening of management capacity included in Component 2 of the project.
Table 3. Annual End of Project Recurrent Costs by NG Agency
National   Annual End-of-Project | Annual Recurrent | Percent of
Government Recurrent Cost, 2003  Budget, 2003 (P  Recurrent
Agency         (P millions)        million<,     Budget
DSWD                  1.4                   1,777    0.08%
DOH                   0.7                  10,851    0.01%
DECS                  0.5                  70,213    0.01%
Total                 2.6                  812,841   82843.6
Can the LGUs afford it? A study of the affordability of the LGU sub-projects was carried out at project
preparation.1 The analysis is based on a sample of 94 municipalities, and examines the capacity of LGU
discretionary resources to finance the ECD interventions. There are three sources of income for LGUs:,
namely, local source revenue, the internal revenue allotment (IRA) from the national government, and
other receipts. The elasticity of local source revenue (the ratio of growth rate of local source revenue to the
growth rate of GNP) in 1994 is projected to increase by 0.05 due to changes in tax rates and changes in
real property values. This elasticity is used to forecast local source revenue based on the Bank's
projections of the nominal GNP growth rate. The projected elasticity of local source revenue is calibrated
to fall in the range of 0.85 to 1.10. It is implicitly assumed that the LGU tax base is growing at the same
rate as aggregate GNP. Projections of the IRA for each LGU are based on projected levels of the
aggregate IRA and the government's IRA distribution model. Estimates of aggregate IRA are based on
projected BIR revenues from the Bank's Medium Term Projections. Other receipts are assumed to grow at
the same rate as nominal GNP after adjustments are made for extraordinary receipts like loan proceeds and
proceeds from sales of capital assets.
LGU expenditure levels. Projected LGU expenditures in 1995-2005 are estimated to grow at the same
rate as total LGU revenue. Total LGU expenditures in 1995 is calibrated such that overall LGU fiscal
position would not be smaller than zero or larger than 10 percent of its total revenue, however. Thus, if
any LGU posted a fiscal deficit in 1994, its 1995 total expenditure is calibrated to equal its 1995 total
revenue (i.e., the LGU's fiscal position is assumed to be balanced in 1995). Total expenditure in other
years is projected in the same manner as before. Similarly, if an LGU registered a surplus in 1994 which
is larger than 10 percent of total income, its 1995 total expenditure is set at a level which made the 1995
surplus to equal 10 percent of 1995 total income. The implicit assumption here is that LGUs spend
(obligate) whatever resources are available in any year after providing for a reasonable/comfortable level
of reserve. That is, the aggregate level of expenditures each LGU is largely driven by the amount of
receipts/revenues it generates. From time to time, certain LGUs will register larger than normal surplus in
anticipation of large expenditure items in the next year. Alternatively, some LGUs will post deficits.
Unlike the national government, LGUs which do incur deficits take corrective measures very quickly so
that their deficits do not persist, because there is a legal mandate which does not allow LGUs to incur
deficits.
1   Manason and Alano (1997).



Page 47                              Annex 4
Page 4 of 18
Projected social sector expenditures in 1995-2005 are estimated assuming the sector expenditure shares
prevailing in 1994 are maintained in future years. "Normal" expenditure levels in 1998-2000 are estimated
assuming that the 1997 projected expenditure levels derived above will be maintained in real per capita terns.
That is, normal expenditures represent the amount LGUs will spend on specified items if they were to sustain
their 1997 expenditure levels in real per capita terms (i.e., 1997 expenditure levels were adjusted for inflation
and population growth). National average inflation rate projections are used, but population growth rates are
specific to the LGUs under study. Because 1997 is the last year before the start of the ECD project, the
analysis implicitly assumes that local executives will not deviate from the expenditure patterns previously
committed.
LGU discretionary income. The amount of discretionary resources are estimated as the difference between
actual/projected LGU expenditure and "normal" expenditure level. "Total discretionary resources" is the
amount of funds that LGUs have at their disposal (the maximum after making provisions for existing service
levels overall) for ECD interventions assuming that the LGUs are willing to undertake inter-sectoral budget
restructuring (i.e., re-allocate a bigger portion of their total discretionary resources to ECD). "Social service
discretionary resource" represents the amount of additional resources that LGUs are willing to spend on
social services in the aggregate after providing for prevailing service levels in 1997. In principle, this amount
wvill be available for ECD if the LGU is willing to undertake intra-sectoral budget restructuring (i.e., spend a
larger portion of their social service discretionary resources on ECD). "Basic social service discretionary
resource" indicates the amount that LGUs would have at their disposal for ECD interventions assuming that
tihey undertake very limited budget restructuring.
LGU affordability results. The analysis compared the LGU discretionary resource levels with the costs
of the LGU ECD sub-projects. The costs of the LGU sub-projects in this analysis initially are defined as
total costs, i.e., all investment and recurrent costs are included. The results indicate that all LGUs in the
sample except one would have sufficient resources to allocate to ECD activities while maintaining their
present service levels (93 LGUs have a surplus in total discretionary resources even after deducting ECD
financing requirements
Although the number of LGUs with budget deficits increases as one moves down the hierarchy towards
increasingly focused discretionary resources, the deficits are predicted only during the first year. When LGUs
are classified by income class, the number of LGUs with first year deficits is sensitive to the phasing of LGU
participation. For LGUs that begin participating in year 1 of the project, the number of LGUs with first year
deficits is largest among the poorer income classes. For LGUs that are phased into the program beyond 1998,
however, no budget deficits are predicted even for LGUs in the low income class. This result largely is due
to a sharp increase in BIR collections in 1996 which will cause a similar increase in IRA transfers to LGUs
three years later (1999), providing LGUs with what amounts to windfall discretionary resources in that year.
The appearance of first year deficits, particularly among the low income municipalities, suggests first-year
4'sunk" investment costs are beyond the financial affordability of many LGUs. The project will adopt a
cost-sharing scheme between the national government and the LGUs where the NG will provide matching
grants to LGUs, to enhance affordability and promote equity. A cost-sharing scheme that takes account of
the LGU fiscal capacity and its ECD service gaps will be instituted and designed so that investment costs
are financed largely through grants, and recurrent costs are financed through combination of LGU loans
and equity contributions. Financing of LGU sub-projects will be for a period of 3 years, after which LGUs
are expected to shoulder the full recurrent operating cost of maintaining the services. The cost-sharing
scheme    will   be    administered    through    the    Municipal    Development    Fund



Page 48                              Annex 4
Page 5 of 18
(MDF). If preferred, LGUs will be allowed to finance their portion of project costs entirely through equity
contributions in lieu of loans through the MDF. The LGU cost-sharing scheme is presented in Table 4.
Table 4. LGU Cost-Sharing S,cheme
WU income class         Percent urant      Percent Loan      Percent Lquity
1 st Class                      40               30              30
2nd - 3rd Class                 60               20               20
4th - 6th Class                 80                10              10
If the national government assumes the investment costs the affoirdability of the project for LGUs is
significantly increased. First year deficits are observed only among low income municipalities which are
phased into the project in 1998 and only when the financing source consists of discretionary resources
focused on basic social services. Using a progressive cost sharing scheme, where the NG share increases
as LGU income decreases, no budget deficits are predicted.
The results of the study suggest the project is affordable and sustainable for LGUs, particularly because
the project implementation schedule has been adjusted begin phasing in LGU sub-projects in year 2 (1999)
of the project, thus avoiding the possibility of LGU budget deficits in year 1 (1998) of the project. All
LGUs will begin their sub-projects in 1999 or later, and the timing allows them to allocate an expected
IRA increase to finance project costs. Progressive matching grants from the national government to LGUs
that cover initial investment costs and decrease the financial burden to the lowest income LGUs also
improves project affordability. In addition, the burden of recurrent costs per capita for LGUs is relatively
small, about one-half of one percent, when compared to annual LGU income per capita (Table 5).
Are the LGUs Willing to Pay?
Because the LGUs appear to have the necessary discretionary income for the project only is an indication
of ability to pay, not willingness to pay project costs, however. Ample discretionary income is a necessary,
but not a sufficient condition of LGU participation and sustainability. Simple affordability only implies the
ability to dedicate discretionary income to this project in lieu of any other incremental services, not de
facto evidence of willingness to participate in the project. The LGUs are autonomous governmental units
and ultimately must be convinced of the merits of the project, their obligation according to the local
government code to provide these services in the decentralized system, and the NG benefits that they will
receive from participation in the project. In this regard, NG matching grants and project support that
provides social marketing, IEC, MIS, planning, and institutional development provide additional
incentives for LGU participation.
To give an indication of how municipalities allocate additional revenue to competing demands for
municipal services, social sector expenditure patterns were examined and an analysis of the marginal
propensity to spend (MPS) on social sector services was conducted for a sample of 163 municipalities
drawn from Regions 5, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12.



Page 49                                 Annex 4
Page 6 of 18
Table 5. Annual End-of-Project LGU Income and Recurrent Cost per Capita,,I
Average Annual
Average Annual End-of-   End-of-Project
Project Income per   Recurrent Cost Per   Percent of
LGUs by Income Class       Capita (Pesos)b      Capita (Pesos)   Annual Income
2nd - 3rd Income Class          1230                  7.5              0.61%
4th - 6th Income Class          1230                  7.5              0.62%
Overall                         1209                  7.5              0.62%
a/ based on a sample of 163 municipalities in 1997 pesos
b/ Source: Manasan and Alano, 1997
Figures 1-4 illustrate the relationship between municipal revenue per capita and expenditures per capita
fcir i) all social sector services (Figure 1); ii) health, education, and population (Figure 2); iii) basic
education (Figure 3); and iv) social welfare services (Figure 4). Municipal expenditures and revenues are
converted to per capita terms to control for differences in population across the 163 municipalities. The
scatter-plots of these relationships suggests there is a positive relationship between municipal revenue per
capita and each of the social sector expenditure categories. That is, municipalities with higher per capita
revenue spend more per capita on social sector services than municipalities with lower per capita revenue.
This suggests that municipalities will spend more per capita for social sector services as real revenues
increase in the future. This hypotheses is tested by an estimation of the marginal propensity to spend for
social services.
Marginal propensity to spend for social sector services. An estimation of the marginal propensity to
spend (MPS) is based on OLS regressions of 1997 municipal social sector expenditure per capita on
municipal revenue per capita. Per capita expenditures and revenue were used in the regressions to control
for municipal population size. Separate regressions were used for four expenditure categories: i) all social
sector services expenditures; ii) health, nutrition, and population expenditures; iii) basic education
expenditures; and iv) social welfare expenditures. Municipal revenue per capita was used as the
independent variable in each regression. The results of the regressions are shown in Table 6.



Page 50
Annex 4
Page 7 of 18
Figure 1. Municipal Social Sector Expenditure per Capita and Rewvenue per Capita,
Philippines 1997
450
40.
QM30
CL
,-300      l               l  
.250m
,1CO   i! 0
0
o 150            1 
0      200     400      600      Boo     IODO    1200    1400    1600    1800    2000
niidpal FL-venue per capita
Table 6: OLS Regression Results for Marginal Propensity to Spend for Municipal Social Sector Services 
Dependent Variables - Expenditures|ll
p er Capita (nesos) b                Constant      Coefficient   t-statistic    R-sauare 
IAll Social Sector Services          l     -19.99    |     0.23      |27.29   r0.82 |
lHealth, Nutrition and Population     | -11.57    l        0.14      l21.98   l 0.75 l
|Basic Education                      |    -17.24    l     0.07      l10.96   l 0.68 l
IScial Welfare Services                       8.82          0.02          7.49   I   0.43
a/ Based on a sample of 163 municipalities from Regions 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12
b/ The independent variable in each regression is municipal revenue per capita
The regression results indicate that the MPS for all social sector services is 0.23, health, nutrition, and
population is 0.14, basic education is 0.07, and social welfare services is .02. The results suggest that
when municipalities receive additional revenue that is not earrnarked fc,r specific municipal services, then
23 percent will be spent on social sector services. In other words, 23 centavos of every additional peso of
revenue will be spent on social sector services. Of this amount, 14 centavos will be spent on health,
nutrition, and population services; 7 centavos will be spent on basic education services; and 2 centavos
will be spent on social welfare services.
Taken together with the affordability analysis, the MPS results indicate a strong argument can be made
that the project LGUs will sustain the ECD program by committing the necessary resources to cover



Page 51                               Annex 4
Page 8 of 18
recurrent costs beyond the life of the project. Not only is the project affordable, that is, LGUs will have
available the 6.5 pesos per capita necessary to sustain the project, but it also appears that LGUs are willing
to commit these pesos to the social sector.
Other indications of LGU willingness to pay for social sector services. There are two other arguments
which suggest there is sufficient LGU willingness to pay project costs and sustain project activities
beyond the three-year LGU sub-project time period. First, participation in the project is not restricted to an
"all or nothing" proposition. LGUs will be given a menu of ECD activities and costs from which to
choose with, perhaps, some minimum level of services required. Each LGU will determine whether to
participate and, if so, the type and level of services and expenditures in line with their ability and
willingness to pay. In this sense, all LGUs that participate presumably will choose a level of expenditures
that is both affordable and sustainable. A list of alternative LGUs have been identified to replace LGUs
which choose not to participate in the project. Alternative LGUs will be tapped until the project quota of
LGUs is filled. Second, consultations held in May 1997 with officials from the ECD targeted LGUs clearly
demonstrated a very high level of willingness to participate in the project, and resulted in signed
endorsements of the project by governors, city and municipal mayors, vice mayors, provincial board
members, and city and municipal council members. In addition, institutional sustainability of the LGU
sulb-project will be addressed through the inputs included under Component 2 of the project.
B. COST-EFFECTIVENESS AND COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
In 1994, the Profiles project developed a nutrition simulation model based on results found in the
international literature and modified for the conditions in the Philippines, to examine the relationships
between the nutritional status of young children and lower death and disease rates, lower health
expenditures, lower rates of mental retardation, higher labor productivity in agriculture, and increased
future earnings. 1
More recently, during project preparation, traditional cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) and cost-benefit
analysis (CBA) of project inputs were used to build on the Profiles earlier work. The results of these
studies indicate the delivery of health, nutrition and early education inputs from this project will be highly
cost-effective, and combine in ways that strengthen the links between child health, education and
economic returns. Investing in the health and education of children increases a country's overall standard
of living by building human resources that generate higher economic returns, reduce social costs, and
increase the efficiency of other investments. Early childhood development interventions improve school
attendance and performance, increasing children's prospects for higher productivity and future income.
Additionally, these interventions will reduce the likelihood that children will become burdens on public
health and social service budgets. Mothers also are helped by project investments.
Health and Nutrition
IProfiles-Philippines nutrition status simulations. Six sets of relationships were simulated by the
Profiles-Philippines model in 1994. The effects of: i) reduction in PEM on infant and child deaths; ii)
reduction in PEM on infant and child morbidity; iii) reduction in iodine deficiency on the number of
mentally deficient children born; iv) reduction in anemia on agricultural productivity; v) reduction of
iiodine deficiency on malnutrition-induced mortality and stunting and future earnings; and vi) reduction in
imalnutrition-induced acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, and blindness on infant and child morbidity
and government health expenditures were each examined. The annual benefits of improved nutrition in
The Profiles project was carried out by the Academy for Educational Development. See Heaver and Hunt (1995) for
details of the model and the assumptions made for the Philippines.



Page 52                               Annex 4
Page 9 of 18
peso and dollar terms on agricultural productivity, increased earnings and savings in health expenditures
from the model simulations for 1999 summarized in Table 7 are substantial.
Table 7. Profiles - Philippines Estimates of Annual Earnings and Savings from
Improvements in Nutrition, Philippines 1999
Pesos (mllions)     (mi iions
Earnings from increased agricultural productivity due
to a 50 percent reduction in anemia                   1340             48
Future earnings from decreased mortality and stunting
due to a 50 percent decrease in iodine deficiency  8400-1900         300-700
Savings in health expenditures from a 50 percent
decrease in malnutrition-related diarrhea, blindness,
and acutre respiratory infections                   168-672           6-16
Source: Heaver and Hunt (1995)
Cost-effectiveness analysis. Using CEA, the economic worthiness of the project's health and nutrition
investments to increase coverage for child survival (EPI, CDD, ARI) and micronutrient supplementation
was examined during project preparation.1 The integrated project approach for providing these inputs at
the point of delivery leads to significant efficiency gains in the cost per disease prevented. Using Disability
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) as the measure of the burden of disease that can be prevented by the
project's health and nutrition inputs, the results indicate the project vwill correctly invest in the programs
which have the largest burden of disease and the lowest cost per DALY saved when compared to
alternatives such as malaria and schistosomiasis control. In addition, the selected integrated health and
nutrition investments are shown to be more cost-effective than the current health and nutrition investment
profile that essentially relies on vertical and semi-vertical delivery systems.
Current health care and nutrition compared to the integrated ECD package of these services. Integration of
these services improves the coverage of the service package because any contact between service
providers and the mother-baby can be used as an opportunity to provide the maximum number of services,
saving time to the beneficiary. Such contacts may occur at the day care center, health center and in the
home through outreach activities. In other words, the increase in the number and location of providing an
integrated service to the mother and child positively affects the child's growth and development.
Additionally, by locating the delivery places close-by, as in a central shopping area, beneficiaries will save
time. A mother looking for a diarrhea treatment could also get nutritional counsel, micronutrients and
other services allowing the beneficiaries to save time and transportation costs. Additionally, ECD
interventions have synergistic qualities, for example, the rate of recovery from measles is enhanced by
Vitamin A supplementation, and achieving the full benefits in terms of physical and intellectual growth of
other interventions may depend on concomitant nutritional improvement and enhanced psycho-social
stimulation.2
Cost of health and nutrition components. Table 8 presents comparisons of coverage and costs per
participant for project interventions. Coverage levels in 1994 are compared to target coverage for 2005,
and cost per participant are given for WDR 1993 for international comparisons, the current system, and
Vargas (1996).
2   World Bank, 1996. PIN FLASH Issue 111,



Page 53                             Annex 4
Page 10 of 18
under the project. The costs of the project interventions are in line with average costs for other developing
countries. PEM is well below current costs because of new innovations in the program including better
targeting and provision of weaning foods for infants.
Measure of effectiveness for health and nutrition investments. Project benefits are expressed in
DALYs, the measure used in the 1993 World Development Report: Investing in Health, and represents one
year of good health.1 The years of life gained by the health and nutrition interventions provide reference
points for the project's effectiveness. The magnitude of the problem addressed by the interventions can be
expressed as the burden of diseases and years of life lost. Estimates of the burden of diseases in the
Philippines that can be prevented by the project health and nutrition components are from the Profiles
model and are shown in Table 9.
C'ost-effectiveness results for health and nutrition investments. The cost of saving one year of life, by
health and nutrition intervention, are presented in Table 10. Cost per DALY from the 1993 WDR are
presented as international reference points. Costs per DALY and wage gains under the current system are
compared to the cost of saving one year of life per project intervention. The cost per year of life saved is
calculated by dividing the number of years of life that can be saved by the project into the incremental
costs of the project (i.e., the cost of the project inputs minus the costs under the current system). The
DALYs are converted into the potential years of life saved by multiplying the incremental coverage (target
coverage minus the current coverage) and then adjusting by program effectiveness.
Table 8. Health and Nutrition Coverage and Cost per Participant
Cost per      Cost per     Cost per
1994        2005 Target Participant,  Participant,   Participant,
Coverage    Coverage  1993 WDR    Current    ECD Project
Intervention   (percent)    (percent)  (US$1993)  (US$1994)   (US$ 1996)
Health Care
ARI & CDD               50           80           9            1              3
EPI                     77          100          14           11             13
Nutrition
Vitamin A               72           80        0.25         0.03           0.04
Iodine                  19           80         0.5         0.01           0.13
Iron                     5           80           2         0.13           0.14
PEM                     14           80 2-25                 24            2.68
Source: Vargas
A number of papers have calculated the DALYs (or related measures) gained by health interventions. See, for example,
Shepard et al. (1985), Stansfield and Shepard (1993), Jamison et al. (1993), and Bobadilla et al. (1994).



Annex 4
Page 54                            Page 11 of 18
Table 9. Health and Nutrition DALYs
L)ALYS (years ot lite lost due to
Project Intervention           mortality and morbidity)
Health Care
ARI & CDD                                               420,000
EPI                                                      271,000
Nutrition
Vitamin A                                                32,000
Iodine                                                  285,000
Iron                                                    206,000
PEM                                                     383,000
Source: Vargas (1996)
Table 10. Cost-effectiveness and Future Returns of Health and Nutrition Interventions
Cost per     Cost per  Cost per       Wage
DALY, 1993    DALY,   DALY, ECD       Gains,    Wage Gains,
WDR           Current  Project        Current  ECD Project
Intervention   (US$1993)  (US$ 1994) (US$1993)  (P millions)  (P millions)
Health Care
ARI & CDD         30-50        35          83           3,090         1,956
EPI              12-17         97         119           3,755         1,186
Nutrition                                   20
Vitamin A          9-3         15         7.89             28             3
Iodine            18-37       3.24         10           1,027         4,382
Iron               13          9           64               7           185
PEM              24-63        N/A         2-25          1,128        22,587
Source: Vargas
The results indicate that large gains can be made through the provision of a limlited set of project health and nutrition
interventions. Relatively modest costs per participant will provide large returns in the future. The wage gains from
health and nutrition are for children who are saved by the interventions. The net present value of wage gains under
the current system are about P29 billion, and with the project increase to about P30 billion.
Early Childhood Education
While it is recognized in the Philippines that basic education is a basic need, the 1987 Constitution and
subsequent pieces of legislation implicitly define basic education as covering only elementary and high
school, the two levels for which the national government assumes responsibility. Early childhood
education (ECE) is considered the choice of the family. Public day care centers are by law supposed to be
provided in every barangay by LGUs, and the expansion of the day care centers has been steadily on the
increase but not fast enough to respond to the need, especially in poor rural LGUs.



Page 55                                 Annex 4
Page ~~~~~~~~~~ ~Page12 of 18
The effect of early (pre-school) childhood education. On a population basis, the aggregate gains from
the pre-school components of the project will depend on the number of children who receive pre-school
education from the project, the transition probability from pre-school to Grade 1, and the transition
probabilities to higher grades. That is, the greater the number of children who benefit from receiving pre-
school education from the project, the greater the number who will enter Grade 1, and the greater the
number who will proceed to higher grades. In the Philippines, however, Grade I enrollment is virtually
universal and, for the purposes of the analysis, Grade I enrollment is assumed for all children. The
p.roblem being addressed by the project, and where anticipated benefits will occur, is in the transition
probabilities from Grade I to higher grades.
Previous studies in the Philippines indicate strong evidence that participation in pre-school programs
reduces the probability that the child will drop out of elementary school, and children form the poorest
households and the children of farmers are most likely to drop out. Pre-school education reduces the
disparity in drop-out behavior across wealth groups.l In addition, it is clear that integrated interventions
of health, nutrition and early education significantly increase attendance rates and improve academic
achievement. There also is clear evidence that improved academic and productivity outcomes resulting
fiom early interventions is greatest for children aged three to six, the target group for the project's early
education inputs. Increased attendance rates and academic achievement lead to future productivity gains
for the child, and can be measured by increased future earnings from: i) the gains from averting child
death; ii) the gain from avoiding permanent disability; and iii) the gain from increasing child readiness for
school that result in lower dropout rates. This approach essentially would integrate the costs of health,
nutrition and early education inputs and links them with a common measure of future productivity
measured in terms of increased future earnings. The studies conducted during project preparation
separately calculated wage gains from health, nutrition, and early education inputs and concluded that
large gains in future wages would be obtained from all of these investments, and largest for early
education inputs.
During the 1970s to the mid-1980s, for every 100 children entering grade 1, 66 finished grade 6, and 41
finished high school. More recently, the cohort survival rate has not improved by much. In 1995-96, only
67.5 students finished elementary school and 47.5 finished high school for every 100 grade I entrants.2
IThe major hurdle in attendance rates appears to be between grade I to grade 2. Only about 86 percent of
grade I entrants move on to grade 2 the following year. From grade 2 onwards, however, transition rates
are in the order of 90 percent or higher. The effect of an increase in the grade I to grade 2 transition rate
to 95 percent would increase the elementary school completion rate by 7 percent (to 73 percent), and the
high school completion rate by 4 percent.3
ECE Costs. Costs of ECE project inputs and assumptions for the economic life of assets are shown in
Table 11. The estimated annual cost per beneficiary by ECE project component, with annualized
investment inputs at different discount rates are given in Table 12. In 1996, the cost of direct schooling in
the Philippines was P-2,764 per student per year for elementary school, and P-2,742 per student per year for
high school.4 The annual cost per child for the DCW is of the same order of magnitude as for elementary
aLnd high school. The relatively lower cost of the CDW is due to the absence of civil works, as the CDW is
not center-based and only will conduct home visits.
Mingat and Tan (1995).
2    DECS (1997).
Alonzo (1989).
DECS (1997).



Page 56                  ~~~~~~~Annex 4
Page 56                         Page 13 of 18
Table 11. ECE Project Costs by Type Caregiver
Cost Item                CDW            DCW        Asset Life
Investment Cost
New Construction                           0        200,000           10
Upgrading                                  0          50,000          10
Equipment                             3,900          22,725            5
Furniture                                  0          51,500           5
Supplies                              11,293          11,042           3
Seed Money, Food Coop                 5,000                0
Training                             20,000           20,000           5
Total Investment Cost                 40,193          355,267
Recurrent Cost
Caregiver Incentives (incl travel)    16,000          45,500
Supplies                             26,131            1,300
Total Recurrent Cost
Beneficiaries
Number per caregiver                50             40
Age Group                       2mos < 3 yrs    3yrs - 5 yrs
Source: Alonzo and Bautista (1997).
Table 12. ECE Annual Costs per Child, by Discount Rate
CDW                            DCW
Discount Rate
(percent)  (annual pesos per beneficiary)  (annual pesos per beneficiary)
10                           1,076                          2,542
12                           1,087                          2,610
15                           1,104                          2,759
Source: Alonzo and Bautista (1997)
ECE benefits. The economic benefits from the project's early education program consist of: i) benefits
from increased schooling; ii) savings of mother's time; and iii) benefits from enhanced child ability. The
measurement of benefits form increased schooling involves calculation of the increase in education
survival probabilities, measurement of the value of additional schooling, and the net return to additional
schooling after adjustment for direct costs and foregone productivity and earnings while in school.
The measurement of project benefits takes into account the fact that the target beneficiaries of the project
are economically and socially disadvantaged segments of the Philippine population whose educational
performance is likely to be below the average because of a combination of poor pre-natal to post-natal
conditions, coupled with disadvantaged early childhood circumstances. Without the project, beneficiaries
would have only a 65 percent chance of moving from grade 1 to grade 2, and 80 percent chance of moving



Page 57                                Annex 4
Page ~~~~~~~~~ ~Page14 ofi18
from grade 2 to grade 3, and an 85 percent chance of moving from grade 3 to grade 4, with the transition
probabilities normalizing thereafter. With the ECE project components that include the CDW and DCW
inputs, the likelihood of the child completing elementary school is expected to increase to 69 percent, and
increase the odds of completing high school to 43 percent (Table 13). A prior study based on 1988 cross-
section data confirmed the positive effects of preschool education on school participation in the
Philippines, with beneficiaries found to be much less likely to drop out after grade 1. 
Table 13. Cohort Survival Rates With and Without the Project
Without Project                With Project
Year           Year to Year    From Grade 1 Year to Year   From Grade 1
Grade 1                 1.000          1.000         1.000            1.000
Grade 2                 0.650           0.65         0.900            0.900
Grade 3                 0.800          0.520         0.900            0.810
Grade 4                 0.850          0.442         0.950            0.770
Grade 5                 0.950          0.420         0.950            0.731
Grade 6                 0.950          0.399         0.950            0.694
High Schooll            0.850          0.339         0.850            0.590
HighSchool2             0.900          0.305         0.900            0.531
High School 3           0.900          0.275         0.900            0.478
High School 4           0.900          0.247         0.900            0.430
College                 0.600          0.148         0.600            0.258
Returns to schooling. The value of the additional schooling is estimated using estimated earnings
functions from a recent study which used data on individual workers from the 1988 NSO labor force
survey.2 The results were used to construct age-education-earnings streams for males and females.
Internal rates of return are calculated after adjusting for direct and indirect costs of schooling. Indirect
costs are defined as foregone earnings or productivity from home or non-market work. These indirect
costs are assumed to be only 25 percent of the predicted contributions if the person was not in school.
This reflects part-time wage rates for work at home or in the market, and reflects higher unemployment
rates in young age groups. The estimated social rates of return to schooling in the Philippines, and earlier
estimates for comparisons, are shown in Table 14.3
Mingat and Tan (1995).
2   Alonzo, Horton and Nayar (1996).
3    These estimates are social (economic) rates of return as they include all costs including subsidies from the govemment.



Page 58                           Annex 4
Table 14. Internal Rates of Return to Schooling
Elementary School
versus some, or no,  High Schiool versus  College versus
elementary school    elementary school    high school
(percent)          (percent)         (percent)
Social Rates of Return - 1996
Men                                 16.1                 19.3             20.0
Women                               21.9                 17.6             16.2
Rates of Return - 1998a/
Private                             18.2                13.8             14.0
Social                              11.9                12.9             13.3
a/ Tan and Paqueo (1988)
Source: Alonzo and Bautista
The 1997 social rates of return indicate the payoff to completing elementary school is higher for women
than for men, while the reverse is true for completion of high school and college. The rates are higher that
the 15 percent "hurdle" rate (social opportunity cost of capital) the Philippine government uses to evaluate
"hard" economic projects.
Value of mother's time. The age-earnings profiles also are used to predict earnings streams at different
age and education levels for the value of mother's time released with the project for more productive
activities at home or in the market. Earnings (or productivity for non-market work) of the participating
mothers are estimated as the educational attainment, weighted average for women in the age group 22-31
for those with infants in the first year of the project, women in age giroup 23-32 for those with 2 year-olds
at the start of the project, and so on up to age group 27-36. Women who have completed college are
excluded from the estimation. It is assumed that these women woulld have the willingness and ability to
pay for private preschool. Table 15 gives the estimated values of mother's time for different age groups
and education levels.



Page 59                             Annex 4
Page 59                 ~~~~~~~~Page16 of 18
Table 15. Value of Mother's Time by Age and Education
(Annual Pesos in 1996)
Mother's Age Group                  l
Distribution
Education         (percent)   22-31     23-32    24-33    25-34    26-35    27-36
Elementary
Some                    14.1    12216    12479    12731    12970    13196    13408
Complete                  24    14787    15105    15410    15700    15973    16230
Hligh School
Some                   14.1    21407    21868    22309    22729    23125    23497
Complete               28.4    23377    23880    24362    24820    25252    25658
College
Some                   19.4    34874    35625    36343    37026    37672    38278
WVeighted Average I _ _         216981   221651   22612    23037    23439    23816
Source: Alonzo and Bautista (1997)
Enhanced child ability. Quality early childhood education is expected to raise the ability of the child.
There is growing evidence that much of a person's ability is determined in the early years, even before
formal schooling begins. For the Philippines, Tan and Mingat (1996) note positive effects of early
education on scholastic achievement, although ability is not measured directly. Much more difficult to
document is the effect of enhanced ability on earnings and productivity. Selowsky (1981), in a study of
early child development in Chile, isolates the effects of early childhood interventions on the increase in
earnings for a given level of schooling from the benefits accruing to additional schooling. The results
suggest investment in an early childhood intervention program is justified if a change of one standard
deviation in the level of child ability costs 37 to 50 percent of the annual earnings of an illiterate Chilean
worker. In the absence of empirical evidence for the Philippines relating preschool human capital
investments to increased ability and increased earnings, project benefits are assumed to be 10 percent of
the present value of lifetime earnings.
ECE cost-benefit results. Table 16 presents the projected flows of costs and benefits per child for the
project's CDW and DCW components. This costs and benefits are computed using a 15 percent discount
factor, and a savings in mother's time of 25 percent of predicted earnings. Child participation begins
shortly after birth, as the CDW makes home visits and interacts with the parents and the child. The annual
cost associated with the CDW services is relatively low because there is no building construction or
upgrading. The child moves on to the more expensive center-based DCW care after three years of the
home-based CDW program.



Page 60                               Annex 4
Page 17 of 18
Table 16. Projected ECE Cost and Benefit Flows
(annual pesos per child)
Age Group                Female                                 Male
Value of  Value of                   Value of  Value of
Direct  Additional Mothees           Direct Additional Mother's
Cost   Schooling   Time     Total    Cost  Schooling   Time      Total
0-1      (1,044)                         (1044)  (1044)                       (1 ,044
1-2      (1,044)                         (1044)  (1044)                       (1,044
2-3      (1,044)                         (1044)  (1044)                       (1,044
3-4      (2759)                  5759     3,000  (2,759)              5,759    3,000
4-5      (2.759)                 5860    3,100  (2,759)               5,860    3,100
5-6      (2,759)        155      5954    3,349  (2,759)    1,412    5,954    4,607
6-7
7-8
8-9
9-10
10-11
11-12                  1748               1,748               925                925
12-13
13-14
14-15
15-16                  4896               4,896             1,243              1,243
NPV      (6,639)        917      8780    3,058 (6,639)        916    8,780     3,058
Source: Alonzo and Bautista (1997)
The economic value of enhanced survival probabilities in the formal schooling system (Value of
Additional Schooling), the values represent the incremental NPVs of moving to a higher level of school.
For example, the P155 for age 5-6 for females is the NPV, discounted at 15 percent and calculated for
children aged 5-6, of the expected gains of finishing elementary school versus stopping before completion,
after deducting the direct cost of schooling and foregone producitivity or earnings. The discounted
incremental net cash flow accruing to the investment in additional schooling is multiplied by the increased
probability of survival with project ECE inputs. For high school versus elementary school, the NPV is
calculated at elementary school completion, age 11-12. The NPVs are all positive, indicating the internal
rates of return are higher than the 15 percent discount rate.
No savings of mother's time is realized in the first three years, as the CDW moves from house to house,
and the child mainly is still under the mother's care. The mothers are, in fact, expected to participate in
the project's parent education program, which is a subcomponent of the CDW package which integrates
the parent-child development programs. When the child moves to the center-based DCW phase, the
benefit value of the mother's time is realized. For example, the valueP5,759 for mother's time at age 3-4
is the product of the value of the mother's time at age 24-33 and the 25 percent deflation factor.
The NPVs at the bottom of the table appear to be relatively low, because they are computed at the child's
age 0-1. They are positive, however, and very similar for females and males. The gender differences are
in the expected returns to additional schooling. The IRR for elementary school completion is higher
among males, while the opposite is true for high school and college. The results also indicate that most of
the measured benefits are from savings in mother's time, not from the value of the expected increase in
earnings form additional schooling.



Page 61                             Annex 4
Page 18 of 18
Table 17 summarizes the results of the NPV calculations at different discount rates, where savings in
rnother's time is imTputed at 25 percent average earnings. Included in the benefits is an estimate of
increased productivity over the lifetime of the child from increased ability from the ECE project inputs
(calculated at 10 percent of lifetime earnings). The results indicate the ability factor is higher for males
than for females, as males have a higher income base to which the 10 percent mark-up applies. At higher
discount rates, the share of the ability factor rises relative to that of the schooling factor.
The quantification of costs and benefits of the project's ECE investments suggests that, even with
conservative assumptions, the interventions pass the 15 percent rate of return test usually applied in the
P'hilippines to "hard" economic development projects like roads and irrigation.  That is, the ECE
interventions are shown to be welfare improving. This the case even though some benefits from ECE
which have not been quantified. These include the increase in benefits from the synergistic integration
with project health and nutrition inputs discussed in the previous section. Other non-quantified benefits
include expected decreases in child abuse and delinquency. The project includes CDW interaction with
parents which is expected to reduce the incidence of child abuse. The expected increase in school
participation will help decrease the number of out-of-school youth and the attendant social problems with
children who either choose to drop-out or are dropped-out of the system.
Table 17. ECE Cost - Benefit Results (annual pesos per child)
Female                           Male
Discount Rates                  Discount Rates
Costs and Benefits      10         12          15        10        12         15
Direct Cost           (7,424)     (7072)    (6,663)   (7,424)   (7,072)   (6,663)
Value of Additional
Schooling                6,363      3,112        917      6,587     3,179       916
Value of Mother's
Time                    10,933     10,002       8,780    10,933    10,002     8,780
Value of Increased
Ability                  4,127      2,327        990      6,092     3,462     1,522
Net Present Value
To Society              1,400      8,368       4,023    16,187     9,570     4,555
To Individuals         20,682     14,733      10,020    22,869    15,935    10,552
Source: Alonzo and Bautista (1997)



Page 62
BIBLIOGRAPHY
to Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis
Alonzo, R. P., 1989. Providing Basic Education for AlZ: Some Policy Perspectives. Submitted to the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), Manila.
Alonzo, R. P., Horton, S. and R. Nayar, 1996. Women in the Labor Market in the Philippines. Chapter 7
in Women and Industrialization in Asia, edited by S. Horton, London, Routledge.
Alonzo, R. P., and Feny de los Angeles-Baustista, 1997. Meeting the Basic Learning Needs of Young
Filipino Children: A Study on Public Investments in Early Childhood Education. Report
submitted to UNICEF-Philippines and the PPT National ECD Project.
Bobadilla, J. L., Cowley, P., Musgrove, P., and H. Saxenian, 1994. The Essential Package of Health
Services in Developing Countries, Background Papers I, The World Bank.
Department of Education, Culture, and Sports (DEC S), 1997. Facts and Figures on Philippine
Education.
Department of Social Welfare and Development, 1997. Proposed Early Child Development Project.
Submitted for ICC Technical Review. Quezon City, Philippines.
Heaver, Richard A. and Joseph M. Hunt, 1995. Improving Early Childhood Development: An Integrated
Program for the Philippines. The World Bank, Washington, DC.
Jamison, D. T., Mosley, W. H., Measham, A. R. and Bobadilla, J. L. eds, 1993. Disease Control
Priorities for Developing Countries, New York: Oxford University Press for The World Bank.
Lally, J. R. , Mangione, P. L. and Honig, A. S., 1988. The Syracuse University Family Development
Research Program: Long-Range Impact of an Early Intervention with Low-Income Children and
Their Families. In D. R. Powell (ed.) Parent Education in Early Childhood Intervention:
Emerging Directions in Theory, Research and Practice. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Manason, R. G. and B. Alano, 1997. Affordability Analysis: Early Child Development Study, Initial
Results. Report submitted to PPT for the ECD Project.
Manason, R. G. and B. Alano, 1997. Analysts of the Fiscal Impact and Affordability of the Proposed
Early Childhood Development Project. Report submitted to PPT for the ECD Project.
Mingat, A. and J-P. Tan, 1995. Do Preschool Programs Improve Elementary School Outcomes?
Evidence from the Philippines. The World Bank.
Myers, Robert G., 1992. Early Childhood Development Programs in Latin America: Toward Definition
of an Investment Strategy. Human Resources Division of Latin America and the Caribbean
Technical Department. The World Bank.
Shepard, D. S., Sanoh, L. ; and E. Coffi , E., 1996. Cost-Effectiveness of the Expanded Programme on
Immunization in the Ivory Coast: A Preliminary Assessment. Social Science and Medicine,
22(3) 369-377.



Page 63
.Selowsky, Marcelo, 1981. Nutrition, Health and Education: The Economic Significance of
Complementarities atEarlyAge. Journal of Development Economics, Vol.9, pp. 331-346.
Stansfield, S. and D. S. Shepard, 1993. Acute Respiratory Infections, in Disease Control Programs for
Developing Countries, Jamison et al., eds, New York: Oxford University Press for The World
Bank, pp. 67-90.
Tan, J-P. and V. Paqueo, 1988. The Econonic Returns to Education in the Philippines, Washingtoni,
D.C.: Asia Technical Department, The World Bank.
van der Gaag, Jacques and J-P. Tan, 1997. The Benefits of Early Childhood Development Programs: An
Econonmic Analysis. Draft.
Vargas, Veronica, 1996: Cost-Effectiveness Study, Integrated Early Childhood Development Final
Report, PPTA-PHI, Appendix 1.
World Bank, 1993. The World Development Report. Investing in Health. Oxford University Press for
The World Bank. New York.
World Bank, 1995 East Asia and the Pacific. Guidelines for Economic Analysis in Project. East Asia
and Pacific Region.
World Bank, 1995. Philippines. Public Expenditure Managementfor Sustained and Equitable Growth.
Country Operations Division, Country Department 1, East Asia and Pacific Region.
World Bank, 1996. PHN FLASH, Issue  11.
World Bank, 1996. Philippines: A Strategy to Fight Poverty. Country Operations Division, Country
Department 1, East Asia and Pacific Region.
World Bank, 1997. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$25 Million
Equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines for an Early Childhood Development Project.
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region.



Page 64
Annex 5
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Million, 1997 Base Year)
Implementation Period                 Operational Period
1999    2000    2001      2002    2003    2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs                            6.1    10.3    12.2         14      7.7      5.6
Recurrent Costs                              0.3     2.5      4.7      7.8      5.3      3.6
Total                                       6.4    12.8    16.9    21.8         13      9.2
Financial Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD (31.25% of project costs)              2.5      4.5      5.5      6.5      3.5      2.5
39.3%    35.3%    32.5%    29.8%    27.0%    27.1%
ADB-OCR/ADF (37.50% ofproject costs)          3.0      5.0     6.5      7.5      5.0      3.0
47.2%    39.2%    38.5%    34.4%    38.6%    32.5%
Local Governments (11% of project costs)      0.0     0.9      1.8      3.1      1.8      1.1
0.0%    6.9%    10.9%    14.11%    14.3%    12.4%
National Govemment (20.25% of project costs   0.9     2.4      3.1      4.7      2.6      2.6
13.50%   18.70%   18.10%   21.80%   20.20%   28.00%
Total                                       6.4    12.8    18.9    21.8    13.0         9.2



Page 65
Annex 6
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
]Procurement
1.    Procurement Procedures: Procurement of all goods and works funded under the Bank Loan will
be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for Procurement under
IIBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 revised in January and August of 1996, and in September
1997; and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of
January 1997, revised in September 1997). The procurement of goods, works and consultancy services
funded in parallel by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) will be carried out under procedures
satisfactory to ADB. Table A shows the Procurement Methods while Table B presents the prior review
thresholds.
2.    Civil Works, equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies as well as drugs and medicines will be
bulked to the extent possible and procured, as follows:
(a)  individual contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to exceed US$200,000 equivalent,
up to an aggregate of US$5.7 million equivalent, will be procured by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the Bank's appropriate Standard Bidding Documents.
Under ICB, domestic manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference in bids
evaluation in accordance with Appendix 2 to the Procurement Guidelines. Due to the
volume and size of construction contracts, no civil works contracts are expected to be
procured under ICB;
(b)  individual civil works contract estimated to exceed US$50,000 equivalent, but limited to
contracts not exceeding US$150,000, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 1.1
million and individual contracts for the purchase of goods with an estimated value between
US$200,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$3.0
million will be procured under National Competitive Bidding using procedures acceptable
to the Bank. A procurement side letter will be issued by the Government detailing the
procedures under local rules which are not acceptable to the Bank;
(c)  individual civil works and goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$300,000, for works and US$2.6 million for goods,
will be procured through simplified procurement procedures similar to national shopping;
these apply government procedures by comparing at least three price quotations from
qualified contractors and suppliers.  If the local government unit has construction
capability, force account may be resorted to for contracts below US$50,000, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent.
3.    Procurement Management: An assessment of the existing capacity of the three implementing
agencies revealed that:



Page 66                            Annex6
Page 2 of 8
(i)  DSWD has never implemented a project of the magnitude of ECD. For 1996, the agency
had procured a total amount of about $600,000 almcist two-thirds of which are small value
contracts less than Peso 100,000 which were done through canvass or shopping. The rest
of the procurement was done through public bidding or direct purchase. There are twenty
four staff actually doing procurement work, all applying government rules and regulations.
DSWD has thus no capacity to implement procurernent procedures under the project and
would need intensive hands-on training in doing procurement using Bank Guidelines. To
accomplish procurement at the early stage (first 2 years) of project implementation, a
procurement agent will be hired to implement procurement. A counterpart procurement
team will be established under the PMO Managernent Support Unit which will be the
understudy of the procurement consultant. The procurement agent will directly assist the
PMO in ICB procurement and will oversee and provide support to the regional and
provincial ECD teams which will handle field procurement;
(ii) DOH has begun the process of addressing existing bottlenecks in procurement for ongoing
Bank projects. At this stage, still the problem of lengthy procurement processing and
approval procedures within the Department exists. Until this problem is addressed, the
procurement agent hired by DSWD PMO will assist the DOH in implementing its
component of the project until such time that the Bank determined that DOH has the
capacity to efficiently procure. The agent will work with the procurement team which will
be set up with DOH as understudy;
(iii) DECS's central procurement system is experienced in implementing procurement for large
projects of several lending institutions. It has the capacity to implement the procurement
arrangement for their component following Bank rules. A procurement team will be set up
in DECS, under management by a separate PMO. This team will implement the
component supporting the strengthening of ECE in Grade 1 plus integrated ECD services
for the 6 years old will likewise establish its own project team to handle procurement
activities.
Each regional PMO shall establish its own procurement team to handle field procurement. As mandated
by law, a Prequalification, Bids and Awards Committee (PBAC) in each government unit shall be
established, with at least the third highest ranking member of the office, LGU, or agency acting as
Chairman. Technical support for field procurement shall be provided by the central PMO. The
procurement leadtime as specified in Administrative Order No. 129 shall be observed.
4.    Consultancy Contracts: Contracts amounting to US$ 6.6 Million will be funded by the Bank.
These contracts shall cover special studies and surveys, social marketing, training, workshops, monitoring
and evaluation. They shall be awarded in accordance with Guidelines for the selection and employment
of consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January, 1997. The Borrower shall use the
standard contracts for complex, time-based assignments or lump sum amounts. The quality cost based
selection shall also be used for selection of firmns as provided in Section II of the guidelines while
individual consultants shall be selected using the procedures set forlh in Section V of the guidelines. All
consulting assignments above US$200,000 must be advertised for expression of interest.
5.    Bank Review: Contracts for goods estimated at US $1 Million or more, and consultancy services
contracts in excess of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals will be subject to prior
review. With respect to all consultant services contracts, irrespective of value, prior review will be
required for (a) terms of reference; (b) single source contracts; (c) contract amendments raising the value
to above US$100,000 or US$50,000 for individuals. No civil works contracts are expected to reach the



Page 67                               Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
prior review threshold of US$5 Million. However, for each year of project implementation, the first two
NCB contracts for works and the first two contracts for goods will be subjected to prior review by the
Bank. All contracts which are not pre-reviewed will be post-reviewed by the Bank. These post reviews
will cover an estimated 25 percent of total contracts. The percentage of total contract values that will be
covered by the Bank's prior review will be 80 percent. The project implementor will use the appropriate
standard bidding documents for goods for procurement using ICB procedures.  For procurement
following NCB procedures, the first bidding documents for goods and works will be reviewed by the
Bank.
Disbursements
1.    The allocation of loan proceeds for disbursement purposes is presented in Table C.  All
disbursements will be channeled through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
2.     Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs
for actual expenditures against (a) contracts of less than US$5 million equivalent for civil works, (b)
contracts of less than US $1 million equivalent for goods, and (c) consultancy contracts of less than US$
100,000 equivalent for firms and US $ 50,000 for individuals. Supporting documentation for these
expenditures would be retained by DSWD, DOH, DECS and regional PMOs, made available to the
Bank's supervision mission and regularly audited by the auditors acceptable to the Bank. For purposes of
payment, each agency will submit the SOEs to the Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
3.     Special Accounts (SA): To facilitate loan disbursements, the MDF will open and maintain a
separate special deposit account, in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. The SA, which would cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, would have an authorized allocation amounting to
US$1.5 million, based on 4 months estimated expenditures to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the SA. Applications to replenish the Special Account, supported by appropriate
documentation, would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when
the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit. The SA shall be audited annually by the
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Advances from MDF to DSWD and its regional offices, DOH, DECS and LGUs: To facilitate
project implementation in a devolved environment, the three implementing central agencies, the DSWD
Region VI office and about 25-30 LGUs may request for a 90-day cash advance facility from MDF.
Prior to granting this facility, MDF, together with the Bank's Financial Management Specialist, will
assess the financial management capacity of the unit. If the assessment result confirms that there is
financial management capacity, the unit would be provided with the 90-day cash advance facility. Each
unit will open two separate accounts, a World Bank project account (WBPA) in the authorized
Government depository bank (AGDB) local branch and the other an account for GOP counterpart
funding, called the Government Project Account (GPA). The concerned unit will submit its 90-day cash
requirements to the central PMO in DSWD, together with its work and financial plan. The PMO will
review the request amd will recommend to MDF to release the 90-day cash requirement. Upon receipt of
such recommendation from the PMO and the result of the financial management assessment, MDF will
transfer the 90-day cash advance to the unit's WBPA. Monthly replenishment of such cash advances
shall be required from each unit. The PMO will monitor and control transfer of cash advances to its
regional offices, in the submission of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures for purposes of
monthly replenishment.



Page 68                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Accounting, Financial Reporting And Auditing Arrangements
1.    Project expenditures will be separately recorded and reported by each implementing agency
under the new system developed by the Commission on Audit and its consultant, Earnst and Young,
Philippines, which was funded by the Bank's IDF. The system, called Financial Information System for
Foreign Assisted Project (FISFAP), is currently being piloted in five on-going projects. By next year, the
objective is to use it in all new projects. Its features are: (a) application of commercial method of
accounting; (b) use of perpetual inventory method; (c) an improved chart of account and coding system;
(d) clear recording and reporting of accounting data from the local government units to the lead
implementing agencies; and (e) generation of accurate and timely financial reports that are needed by
agency management, oversight agencies and funding institutions. The system will run in a financial
accounting software which has the capability of customization or programming modification to suit the
needs of the project.
2.    Project disbursements to lAs are routed through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) as sub-
loans and/or grants. The accounting policies and procedures of the MDF are governed by DBM and
COA circular No. 2-97 of March 21, 1997. The circular describes the accounting policies and
procedures, the Chart of Accounts and accounting entries. MDF produces separate financial reports for
each project accounting for sub-loan and/or grant disbursements. The accounting staff of MDF is headed
by a Chief Accountant and include some 20 staff who accounting graduates. The accounting,
disbursement and record keeping functions are segregated and independent of each other. MDF relies on
statements of expenditure submitted by lAs to release funds. MDF does not have sufficient staff to
review the financial management arrangements of the lAs but relies on COA verification and approval of
SOEs.
3.    In order to ensure sound financial management of sub-project lAs, it was agreed that Financial
Management Units will be established at the Central Project Management Office (CPMO) and at
Regional offices. The FMUs shall be staffed with qualified and experienced financial analysts and
financial management specialists who shall be responsible for financial appraisal of sub-projects and
project implementing agencies. FMU staff will prepare action plans to implement the FISFAP system
and assist lAs in implementation. The staff will also review periodically the financial management
arrangements of sub-projects and the effectiveness of internal control procedures. FMU staff of CPMO
will take overall responsibility for quality control of the work of Regional FMUs.
4.    All lAs are required to prepare standard financial management reports quarterly and submit to
CPMO FMU. These reports will be in a format acceptable to the Bank and will be used for monitoring of
project progress by the CPMO and MDF. CPMO FMU will be responsible for consolidation of the IA
financial management reports and the consolidated reports will be submitted to the Bank quarterly. In
addition, CPMO will be responsible for preparing annual consolidated project financial statements based
on the financial statements prepared by lAs. FMU will require that the IA financial statements are
audited by COA and render and opinion thereon.
5.    MDF and CPMO will be responsible for submission of the consolidated project financial
statements for the audit by COA. COA will perform an audit of the project financial statements and
render an opinion. A separate audit of the operations of special Accotnt and the withdrawal of
expenditures through statement of expenditure will also be carried out by COA who will provide a
separate opinion thereon.



Page 69                                   Annex 6
Page 5 of 8
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method                        (including
contingencies)
ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F
1. Works
1.1          0.3            1.6            3.0
(1.1)         (0.3)                        (1.4)
2. Goods
4.2           2.2           2.0           11.9           20.3
(4.2)         (2.1)         (1.9)                        (8.2)
3. Services                                                      8.3           26.1            34.4
(8.3)                        (8.3)
4. Miscellaneous (IEC)
0.6           0.5                         1.1
(0.6)         (0.5)                       (I. 1)
Total                  4.2           3.9           11.1          39.6           58.8
Total______________________   (4.2)  (3.8)        (I 1.0)                      (19.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Figures include contingencies. Other procurement methods include shopping and force
accounts.



Page 70                           Annex 6
Page 6 of 8
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                        Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                            (including
Expenditure Category                                                           contingencies)
QCBS   QBS   SFB    LCS    CQ    Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms              (7.4)                                                        (7.4)
B. Individuals                                            (.9)                     (.9)
Total  (7.4)                                (.9)                    (8.3)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  = Quality-based Selection
SFB    Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  = Least-Cost Selection
CQ   = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 71
Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value           Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)                Method                Prior Review
1. Works
1.4           NCB/Shopping/Force       First two contract each
Account                 year
2. Goods
8.2           ICB/NCB/Shopping         Above US$1million and
first two contracts each
year
3. Services
8.3           QCB/Individual selection  Above USS100,000 firms
and US$50,000 for
individuals
4. Miscellaneous (IEC)
1.1
Total
19.0



Page 72                               Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US'$million   Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                               1.4                    80%
Goods                                                     8.2               100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
ex-factory cost and
80% of other items
procured locally
Consultancy Services                                      8.3                   100%
IEC                                                       1.1                   100%
Total         19.0



Page 73
Annex 7
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                              Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
473                    633
B. Project Schedule                                     Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
lime taken to prepare the project (months)                30                      46
First Bank mission (identification)                    3/_/1994                3/_/1994
Appraisal mission departure                            9/_/1996                1/_/1998
Negotiations                                           12/ /1996               2/ /1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          6/ /1997                5/_/1998
Prepared by: DOH, DSWD, DECS
Preparation assistance: 2 PHRD Grants; PPTA Grant from ADB, financing of studies and staff time from
UNICEF, Manila.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Althea Hill, Richard Heaver, Claude Salem, Stanley Scheyer, Nicholas Prescott, Laura Shrestha, Cecilia
Vales, Jayshree Balachander, Hoi-Chan Nguyen, Gbangi Kimboko, Juliana Williams, Wijaya Wickrema,
Walter Schwermer.
Consultants who worked on the project included (in alphabetical order):
Hernando Abaya, Bing Alano, Maricon Alfiller, Ruperto Alonso, Bansi Lal Amla, Carmen Arevalo, Feny
de los Angeles Bautista, Henry Briones, John Cameron, Rosendo Capul, Maria Asuncion Chin, Rodrigo
Cisneros, Sonny Boy Espique, Bruce Geisert, Marilyn Gorra, Rowena Guanzon, Richard Heaver, Pradeep
Kakkar, John Kevany, Alicia Lustre, Joyce Lyons, Chat Manasan, Kerida Scott-McDonald, Keith McInnes,
Robert Myers, Rosario Pascua, Antonio Pio, Emma Porio, Rachel Racelis, Alexis Reyes, Mary St. John,
Brad Schwartz, Ramon Tuazon, Niko van Oudenhoeven, Edith Villanueva, Raymond Villanueva, Fred
Wood.



Page 74
Annex 8
PHILIPPINES
Early Childhood Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. "Improving Early Childhood Development: An Integrated Program for the Philippines"
(A collaborative report by the World Bank and Asian Development Bank): R. Heaver
and J. Hunt; Directions in Development series: World Bank, 1995
2.  "Early Child Development: Investing in the Future". Maiy Eming Young; Directions in
Development series: World Bank, 1996.
3. "Enriching Lives: Overcoming Vitamin and Mineral Malnutrition in Developing
Countries". Development in Practice series: World Bank., 1994.
4. "A Strategy to Fight Poverty: Philippines". World Bank, Country Operations Division,
Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region; March, 1996.
C. Other
Studies done during preparation
I .    Eufracio Abaya: Developing Strategies for Ensuring Access of Philippines and
Indigenous Peoples to Early Child Development Programs.
2.    Bansi Amla: Supplementary Food for the Philippines PEM Control Program:
Recommended Formulation, Production and Distribution
3.    Ruporto Alonso and Bansi Amla: Production and Distribution of Complementary Food
for the ECD Program: A Study of Options, Managerial Feasibility and Cost ffectiveness.
4.    Carmen Arevalo-Correa: Early Child Development Project: Funding Mechanisms for
LGU Subproject Proposals.
5.    Henry Briones: Proposed Nutrition Component for the ECD Project
6.    Ma. Asuncion Chin: Community and Local Government Consultations on the ECD
Program
7     Bruce Geisert: The Management Information System Comnponent of the ECD Project
8.    Ellyn Gorra: The Philippines Early Child Development Program



Annex 8
Page 75                            Page 2 of 2
9.    Rosario Manasan and Bienvenido Alano: Analysis of the Fiscal Impact and
Affordability of the Proposed ECD Project.
10.   Kerida Scott-McDonald: Targeting and Monitoring Strategies for the Philippines
ECD Program
11.   Emma Porio: Developing a Methodology for Community Consultations.
12.   Alexis Reyes: Conceptual Framework for Psychosocial Development and
Developmental Screening for 0-6 Years Old
13.   Alexis Reyes: Design of a Referral System for Children with Disabilities and System for
Targeting High Risk Children and Families.
14.   Mary St. John and Sonny Boy Espique: Designing an ECD Decision Support Tool.
15.   J. Brad Schwartz: Republic of the Philippines: Early Child Development Project;
Economic Analysis". September 30, 1997.
16.   Raymond Villanueva: Improving the Functionality, Interactivity and User-Friendliness
of the Prototype ECD Planning Software.
*Including electronic files.



Page 76
Annex 9
STATUS OF BANK GROULP OPERATIONS IN ]?HILIPPINES
(As of December 31, 1997)
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Amount in US$ million (less
cancellations)
Loan/Credit            FY   Borrower      Purpose                         Bank    IDA      Undisbursed  Closing Date
Credits
7 Credit(s) closed                                                                  171.18
23920    1992   GOP           SECOND VOCATIONAL TR                         36       12.18     12/31/98
25060    1993   GOP           URBHEALTH&NUTRITI                            70       55.88     12131/00
Total Number of
Credits = 2                                                                       106       68.06
Loans
169 Loans(s) closed                                                       6,714.64             111.37
32040    1990   ROP           COCONUT FARMS DEVT.              120.95               41.11      6/30/98
32610    1991   ROP           COMMUNAL IRRIG. II                 46.2               20.27     12/31/98
33600    1991   ROP           ENV. &NAT. RES. MGT                 158               20.77     12/31/98
34300    1992  ROP            HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                  150               73.32      6/30/99
34550    1992  ROP            MUNICIPALDEVIII                      68               39.34      6130/99
34390    1992  ROP            RURAL ELECTRIFICATION              91.3               40.11      4/30/98
34350    1992  ROP            ENGINEERING & SCIENCE                61                9.08      6/30/98
36070    1993   ROP           RRIG OPER SUPP I                   51.3               26.61      6/30/99
36030    1993   ROP           TAX COMPUTERIZATION                  63               30.59      6/30/99
37000    1994  NPC & PNOC LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMAL                   147               23.49      6/30/98
37460    1994   ROP           LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL              113               28.59      6/30/99
37020    1994  NPC & PNOC LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMAL                    64               15.21      6/30/98
37470    1994  ROP            LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERMAL              114               67.03      6/30/99
37450    1994  ROP            SUBIC BAYFREEPORT                    40                4.75      6/30/99
38520    1995  ROP            WOMENS BEALTH & SAFE                 18               17.49     12/31/01
39400    1996  LandBank    RURAL FINANCEI[                         50               15.83      6/30/02
39960    1996  ROP            TRANS GRID REINFORCE                100               72.48     12/31/00
40190    1996  ROP            MNLA2ND SEWERAGE                     57                 57      12131/01
39970    1996  ROP            TRANS GRID REINFORCE                150              112.51     12/31/00
39390    1996  LandBank    RURALFINANCEII                          50              22.06      12/15/98
39380    1996  LandBank    RURAL FINANCE II                        50               25.93      6/30/02
41080    1997  ROP            THIRD ELEMEDUCATION               113.4               113.4      6/30104
41090    1997  ROP            AGRARIANREFORMCOMM                   50                 48      12131/03
41110    1997  ROP            SECOND SUBIC BAY                     60                 60      12131100
41100    1997  ROP            WATER RESOURCES DEV.                 58                56.9     12131/02
42270    1998  ROP            WATER DISTRICT DEV.                 2.3                 2.3      6/30/03
42280    1998  ROP            WATER DISTRICT DEV.                54.5                54.5      6/30/03
Total Number of Loans  27                                                 2,100.95            1,098.67
Total***                                     .8,815.58  277.18
of which repaid                                        3,411.18    14.3
Total held by Bank & IDA                                5,404.40  262.87
Amount sold                                      31.35
of which repaid                                  31.35
Total Undisbursed                                                          1,278.10



Page 77
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Philippines
STATEMENT OF IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Dec-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IIFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1967/88               MERALCO                10.75    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/86/88/89         PLDT                   23.16    0.00    0.00   14.89   23.16    0.00    0.00   14.89
1974/79               Maria Cristina          0.00     .44    0.00    0.00    0.00     .44    0.00    0.00
1979/90               General Milling         0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00
1980/82/89/90/94/95   AACT                   25.00    2.73    0.00    0.00   21.50    2.73    0.00    0.00
1989                  H&QPV-I                 0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  Navotas                 0.00     .95    0.00    0.00    0.00     .95    0.00    0.00
1990                  Avantex Mill            5.63    1.98    0.00    0.00    5.63    1.98    0.00    0.00
1991                  Best Chemnicals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  Bacnotan                5.60    5.63    0.00    4.00    5.60    5.63    0.00    4.00
1992                  Pilipinas Shell         0.00    0.00   11.63    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.63    0.00
1993                  H&QPV-H                 0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1993                  Pagbilao               57.00   10.00    0.00   10.20   57.00   10.00    0.00   10.20
1993/94               Mindanao Power          0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.26    0.00    0.00
1994                  Walden Mgmt             0.00     .05    0.00    0.00    0.00     .05    0.00    0.00
1994                  Walden Ventures         0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00
1995                  Sual Power             30.00    0.00    0.00  196.00    5.90    0.00    0.00   71.20
1996                  All Asia Growth         0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  All Asia Manager        0.00     .04    0.00    0.00    0.00     .04    0.00    0.00
1996                  All Asia Venture        0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01    0.00    0.00
1997                  Far East Bank          25.00    0.00    0.00   50.00   17.99    0.00    0.00   35.98
Total Portfolio:                 182.14   39.31   11.63  275.09  147.53   37.10   11.63  136.27
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
Loan   Eguity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  BATAAN P/E             30.00    0.00   10.00  163.00
1997                  MAGSAYSAYLINES          8.00    3.00    0.00   26.50
1967                  MANILA ELECTRIC         0.00    0.00    0.00     .36
1997                  PT&T                   30.00    5.00    0.00   30.00
1995                  SUAL THERMAL            0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00
PWR
Total Pending Commitment:         68.00   25.50   10.00  219.86



Page 78                                                         Annex 10
ANNEX-10                                                        Page 1 of,2
Philippines at a glance                                                               2123198
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East  middle-
Philippines     Asia  income        Development diamond-
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        70.0      1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            1,190       890    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               83.3      1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%/6)                                       2.2        13       1.4      GNF                              Gross
Labor force (%/6)                                      2.7        1.3      1.8     per                             pnrmar,
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita             /          enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populalion)              54
Urban population (54 of total population)               54         31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        66        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                39        40        41               Access to safe water
Child malnutribon (%56 of children under 5)             30
Access to safe water (% of population)                  84         77
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     5         17             |
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   111        117      104           -.Philippines
Male                                                           120       1o5                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                         116       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985      1995      1996 8r
jEconomic ratios
GDP (bilrions US$)                           15.0     30.7       74.2     83.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                30.9      15.3      22.2     24.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP            21.0     24.0       36.4     43.6    1        Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   24.8      17.4         .
Gross national savings/GDP                   26.6     15.9       17.8     20.0   |
Current account balance/GDP                  -6.2      -0.1      -4.4     -4.7
Interest payments/GDP                         0.8      3.1        2.6               Savings                     Investment
Totai debt/GDP                               27.8     88.6       53.2     49.2
Total debtservicelexpots                     14.4     31.6       16.5     14.7
Present value of debtVGDP 
Present value of debttexports                   -                                               Indebtedness
1975-5  1986-96      1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 --Philippines
GDP                                  3.0      3.2      4.8        5.5      5. 
GNP per capita                       0.3      1.5      2.5        44       3.5           -Lower-middle-income grup
Exports of goods and services        7.6      8.7     12.0       23.9     10.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growtv8 rates of output and investment 1%)
Agriculture                                  30.3     24.6       21.6     21.4      20 -
Industry                                     34.6     35.1       32.1     31.7      1 \uN
Manufacturing                              25.7      25.2      23.0      22.6   I
Services                                     35.0     40.4       46.3     46.9    -o i2    93   94   95   96
.15-
Private consumpton                           64.5     75.0       74.2     73.9       s -20
General govemment consumption                10.7      7.6       11.4     11.7    1                GDI   -     DP
Importsof goods and services                 27.1     21.9       44.2     53.9
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996    1
(average annual growth)                                                           1 Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                   2.2       1.7       0.8      3.0      25 T
Industry                                      2.6      3.3        7.0      6.3      20
Manufacturing                               1.8       3.2       6.8       5.6    1i
Services                                      3.8      3.8        5.0      6.5      ' 
Private consumption                           3.3      4.1        8.5      5.3      5
General govemment consumption                 0.4      4.6        5.4      5.2      
Gross domestic investment                    -0.4      6.9        3.0     15.6      .            92   93   94   95   96
Importsofgoodsandservices                     3.9     12.3       16.0     21.1                    Expons  Impo,t
Gross national product                        2.7      3.8        5.0      6.9                            -
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 79                                                                 Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986       199      1996     Inflation
Domestc prices
(% change)                                                                          20 -
Consumer prices                                6.8     23.1        8.1      8.4     15
Implicit GDP deflator                          9.3     17.6        7.5      8.9    10
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..    12.1        18.5     19.5             91   52   93   94   9f   96
Current budiget balance                                 2.4        2.5      3.1              -     GDP def. ---OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -1.4     -0.4
TRADE
1975     1985      1996      1996      Exportandimportlevels(mill.US$)
(millions US$)
Total expoits (fob)                             ..   4,629      17,447   20,543      3,9000 _
Coconut oil                                   ..      347        826      571      30,000
Sugar                                                 185         74      139      25,0r0
Manufactures                                   ..   2,539     13,868   17,106      20000
Total impoits (cif)                                   5,111     26,391   31,885      15,000l
Fooedaneeg                                            256      1,204    1,578      10000        o      . -     
Capital goods                                  ..     769      8,029   10,472         0
Food                    ..      256      1,204    1,578     10.000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  91 9 9m4   5 9
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..       81       124       124            s   9   92  92  94  95  95
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       63       124       126                zExports   [iImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      127        100       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985       1995     1996      C
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                3,000    6,864    21,978   28,566       0      _-             -
Imports of goods and services                4,116    5,961     33,314   42,254         90   91   92   93   94   95   9       I
Resource balance                            -1,116      903   -11,336  -13,688         -|
Net incomie                                  -126   -1,317       7,157    9,185     - -
Net current transfers                         318       379       882       589      3
Current account balance,                                                             4 -
before official capital transfers           -923      -35    -3,297   -3,914
Financing items (net)                         912       867      3,928    8,021                                               ;
Changes in net reserves                         11     -832       -631   -4,107     --
Memo:                                                                                                                         I
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          1,458    1,098      7,762   11,745
Conversion rate (local/US$)                    7,2     18.6       25.7     26.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         4,171   26,839    39,445   41,214
IBRD                                        238    2,421       5,002    4,666               G         4666 A
IDA                                          17        84       183       193             7969              193  c
Total debt service                            457    2,534       5,337    5,778                                    405
IBRD                                         26       285       790      766                                       D
IDA                                           0         1         3         3              ,                      3079
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              72       139       276        ..                                 /
Official creditors                          185       381      -648        ..                                     E
Private creditors                           348       776      1,166       ..            F                      12085
Foreign direct investment                    98        12      1,478    1,600          12817
Portfolio equity                              0         0      1,961    1,333
World Bank program
Commi:ments                                 114       104       168      528       A-IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                94       276       402      457       B - IDA    0 - Other mulUlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         12       110       415      426       C-IMF                       G-Short-term
Net llov,s                                   82       166       -13       31
Interest payments                            14       176       378      343
Net transfers                                68       -10      -391      -312
Development Economics                                                                                                 2123/98






MAP SECTION



1,18                                 120o                                    122'                                                                 I      -  NORH  A           'CIFIC
CHINAOC N
PHILIPPINES                                                       :Batan                                                                                   OCEN
EARLY CHILDHOOD                                                               Bonn.                                           40'52
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                 A AH4VITNA                 ,wnE
Regions and Provinces                                                  2------
Covered Under the Project
MALAYSIA       7
PROJECT PROVINCES                                                Ba.byan -
PAN-PHILIPPINE HIGHWAY                                            I51ands
OTHER MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                          I N  D  0  N  E S  i A'
FERRIESNC ttAoc0
-      INTEPNATIONALAIRPORTS                                                          K                                      1             lI           120           AUSTRALIA
MAJOR PORTS                              Looog Ciy                  09 -
18'                         RIVERS                                          . .' Kskgo                                                         124                                    126-               IS'
*      PROVINCE CAPITALS                              ;ProcI                                                               This nap wgs pcoduccd by lhe Mop Dosign lnit at Tb Wadd BasIs.
S      REGION CAPITALS                               .     B-g-2sd              Tsgoagorno                                 The b-dlo,da-es,-colors,dooR    snot aoyothl gnO soaaP.an
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                     N Songo                                    lodgnanto  ha  lstoOkaP anyllOry.ranyands,saoanlor
REGION BOUNDARIES                                    L    o          oA aecpsncohos5UC                                                   riS.
bor<;    ;pBl~~~logo, 
Regions and Provinces:                                             ,            ,    XLo9oWc  <
(Ragians and Provinces caserrd uoda, the Pra/act            Smn Faon-sldoA  ,      o           *I
otspaar in cad)                                                  bcC --  Lanio  f;1           *omlg 
u~~~~~~~~~~~ 'Elnssp03oaSt igrboT
10      00 t                                                    lnoogoy      ;. Lu X on              -160
Tol    -' lCoss    Rob
AnmeK,     |     PPoylilbl
Roc Frno       Cobeodloonnd
Abn gnpso olooLll
Mo:n *sobngn o;ueoso Ci " 
'MATkNILAb; p3I'IS 
R, ' .shlaoo'a*                               Ioae Pongonibon                               .     I :         .    '  
-14-                                       0  0     '0'Nsbot                                                                             Sbd       0i                           Sea
b7                                Ns11-Ksd-     Cp                                                   IT         V
Xll   CcntrCi MiOd.-                                                                                   0Soblg      Cnondcqna
69. L0 mmddNm                           *Monoo,oo    ,            ,O        o                LboiToboCjy
69. NaIb Couoholo                                            0g      .                               3 o1        0
S  t S                              ~~~~~~Mindara                          9ro                tes
9.:~~~~~~~~~. Cdwn  '-:eobno MB99                                                    PMa
ERn             ' /          -                             4oros r P o Isid2,
Rotlo                                    ?jjsosso \ S byg         PlO   ?
AAhLipchl_osoy. Rcoo      -          J \,C.qc2
C    Puerb Prina so Cily                     aeSstesa                              MtoA               Iidro
-12-                                                                                                                                                                         2Tf
Aowolod- Cab.. Ci           Cotoq,slnd                                                                                      Iloqss,b          2o
VI   Waster- Visapas                                 -opo-oh                                                              1                                   A
1R                                                                          a               Ploa                                                                       o NIb
Al. Copi                                                                                                                           d  p 
52.  sisaCco5, R. 19                                                                                                                                          Poo
55  toll                                                       lslDluonds                                                                                   >     b       ob,
40. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ d tossoiloondolo                             dts                    tnr        id l         t - 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.   -                                                            6            de.                  I b.-
VII   Centra1 Wt-myn
45  taMdao                                                                                                                   S.         o1ajlo.  .
Rco                                                                            O100l200                                    Rinogal          fAET2t5    w
IS                .                                                                                                                                          . I  Ip~ Iiaga
O           P-osolPri.-cesCtly
Cpgo-otd 0 o. 
S.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
dte.       6i
MALAYSIA                                                PssPn
9       lO                209                300 KIILOAMRIRS
Fl                                                                                                                                                                             005~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a     119'                                  120                                    122'                                   t2,                                    12SA'



118                    126                             122                             '100         10         <291' .    NORH PACIFIC
PH'L'IPPINES                                                                                                 CHINA r' 66                OCEAN
EARLY CHILDHOOD                                                                                                 77'7\.Plppe
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTRW*NE
Distribution  of Indigenous                                                  Sr,                                    
Peoples Groups                                                                                                   VS'(
* INDGERNOUS PEOPLES                                         7~ 
KGOOT TRIBES:                                                           B .Rohy-n77-
1, YAPAYAOLIlns-
2.ISNEO                                                         82oocho2-I                                             -         JND        NEIA             .2
3 IiNGIAN                                                                                                          INDIAN                  ,-       o'h&
4 KAUNGA                                                 .7>                        ,OCEAN                                                L7,2
3 BONTOC                                                                       70                                           1120               .   1RA& 
6. IEUGAO 
I  7' KANKANARY                                                                 Q                                 12A.                            12621
B IRALOY                                                     *            D
PAWAWAN:                     ~ 
CARASALLOI        o'~~A  COYONN                          CR                                                                 REGION CAPITALS
CAGAYAN VALLEY:         7-S TC-A7SUAIIJ
9 ITAWES              .2  IIA1.NS-                                                                                                REGION BOUNDARIES
10 ISINAI                -SAA
11 IBANAG               AA  Fl- .5Y                                                                                      tegos
12 GADDANG                                                                                                                   gions/
13 ILONOOT                      C07,77F.,,0                 0                                                             I 1%-p
14. IKALAJHAN                                  3t ORg  0                 0CR   .
16-~~~~~~~~~~7  NEGRTO                                                                                                RCoo6'-
6'  NFl/BOO    -  .                                                                                              di  Cook.)~~~~S-F-d I  P.di
AMINGANAC LUMAD                                          M    N~
-14'  24. UBO                                                                                              -,714'-
25 BURIDNONISo-                                                                           K         >     <S          a~dee
27~ TAL&ANDIG
2R. MANDAYAIMAN8SAKA                                                     M-m1 ,
29. SUJBANENSbyo.                                                                               70'L9p74
30. BAGOBO                                           mindo a                          Se..
31. B'LAAN                                                                       IB70c6t0 
33. TIIRARY                                           0>i
34. TAGAKAOLO                                            .POE
33~ BANWIAGIN                                  2Jn.g                 ".7
12'  36. DIBABAWON                                                         .......7                                                   S...,                          12'
O        -                                                     7-
C776ee'~So                 -            sroayan          ~ S-
P.-y ~ ~     ~    ~    Sas     
Lioopeo4                                     No/K   1
1,!Z,C >Y..   -
ii                           GP.yI'
a                               9   'K) ~~~~~~/c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        lou    CI
Sului               0                      LtSea                                                K
_                        8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,
o.                                                ?~~"'~~.&, -~~__  _________~
_                                 K   tfln~~~~~~~~"
/~~~~~   nc     
-                                  Negros               "   Rehol .                /~~~~~1
s   o                                                                                                 90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..~
ft 2                                    .                    Mndaeao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
Suls   Sea~Celbe                                    Sea070
-  '2                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~2-  2
Sea2                         12B.o
07-7                            iet w                 K. -L      i 



