Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4301 PH
Loan Agreement
(Early Childhood Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 8, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4301 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) 
two loans (collectively, the ADB Loans) in an amount of fifteen million seven hundred 
thousand dollars ($15,700,000) and in an amount equivalent to six million four hundred 
eighty-seven thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,487,000), respectively, to assist 
in the financing of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in two 
agreements (respectively, the Ordinary Operations Loan Agreement and the Special 
Operations Loan Agreement, and collectively, the ADB Loan agreement),Agreements) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and ADB;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in this Agreement:
(a)
"Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas" means the Central Bank of the Republic of 
the Philippines, an agency of the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
(b)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"CWC" means the Council for the Welfare of Children, an agency of the 
Borrower attached to DSWD, responsible for overseeing all programs, policies and 
issues concerning children, and any successor thereto;
(d)
"DECS" means the Department of Education, Culture and Sports, an agency 
of the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
(e)
"DOF" means the Department of Finance, an agency of the Borrower and any 
successor thereto;
(f)
"DOH" means the Department of Health, an agency of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto;
(g)
"DSWD" means the Department of Social Welfare and Development, an agency 
of the Borrower, and any successor thereto;
(h)
"IEC" means information, education and communication;
(i)
"LGU" means a local government unit, a political subdivision of the 
Borrower, at the municipal or city or provincial level;
(j)
"LGU Sub-project" means a specific investment sub-project approved for 
financing under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures 
set forth in the LGU Support Facility Operations;
(k)
"LGU Financing Facility" means the facility to be established by the 
Borrower under Part A.2 of the Project, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) 
ofparagraph B.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations" means the manual LGU 
Financing Facility Manual of Operations, referred to in paragraph B.12 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank;
(m)
"MDF" means the Municipal Development Fund established under Presidential 
Decree No. 1914 dated March 29, 1984, administered by DOF through the Bureau of Local 
Government Finance to make financial resources available to LGUs for duly approved 
specific projects or activities, and any successor thereto;
(n)
"PMO" means project management office, at the national, regional or 
provincial level, as the case may be, referred to in paragraphs A.4, A.5 and A.6 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, responsible for the supervision and monitoring of 
project implementation at the respective level;
(o)
"Project Regions" means Regions VI, VII and XII in the Philippines, and 
"Project Region" means one of the Project Regions;
(p)
"Project Province" means a province within any of the Project Regions, 
Page  3
and "Project Provinces" means more than one such province;
(q)
"Project Steering Committee" means the inter-agency committee referred to 
in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(s)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project approved for financing 
under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth 
in the LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations;
(t)
"Sub-project Assistance Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph B.3.4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement between the Borrower through the 
national PMO and an LGU, for the implementation of the LGU Sub-project, and "MOA" 
means any of a Sub-project; and "Sub-project Assistance Agreements" means more than 
one such agreement; and
(u)
"Ten-year National Early Childhood Development Program" means the program 
of national investments to promote early childhood development, adopted by the 
Borrower in May 1996, and referred to in Section 3.044.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to nineteen 
million dollars ($19,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
Page  4
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A.1 (a), (b), and (c) of the Project through DOH, Part A.1 (e) of the 
Project through DECS, and Parts A.1 (d), A.2, B and C of the Project through DSWD, 
respectively, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, public health, education, management and financial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, in respect of Part A.2 of the Project, make available 
to eligible LGUs a portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (1), 2(2) (b), 3(3) (b) and 4(4) (b), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. To that end, the Borrower shall establish an LGU Support 
Facility to make such funds available to eligible LGUs through an LGU Financing 
Facility established under MDF pursuant to a memorandum of agreement to such effect 
between DSWD and DOF, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
Page  5
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion of such financial statements, records and accounts and 
a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
Page  6
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall consult with the Bank in respect of any 
proposal to modify its Ten-Year National Early Childhood Development Program.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of either of 
the ADB Loans made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or
(ii)
either of the ADB Loans shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has established: (i) the Project Steering Committee in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) 
the national Project Management Office within DSWD and designated the national Project 
Director and the national Project Coordinator thereof, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph A.4 of said Schedule 5; and (iii) in each Project Region, the 
regional Project Management Office within the Regional DSWD Office and designated the 
regional Project Coordinator thereof, in each Project Region, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph A.5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
DSWD and DOF have executed the memorandum of agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) hereof, acceptable to the Banka memorandum of agreement in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
DSWD has adopted and put into effect the LGU Financing Facility Manual of 
Operations, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B.2 
Page  7
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
The municipal or city councils of at least five LGUs have passed 
resolutions satisfactory to the Bank, to authorize the respective LGUs to undertake 
Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the Project; and
(e)
The ADB Loan Agreements have been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said agreements or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Boulevard
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Telex:
40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Salvador Enriquez
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under
   1,400,000
80%
  Part A.2 of the
  Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
and food supplements:
expenditures
100% of local
(a)  micronutrients under   1,800,000
expenditures
Part A.1 of the Project
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of
(b)  food supplements under
600,000
local expenditures
      Part A.2 of the Project
for other items procured
locally
(3)
Other Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures
(a)  under Parts A.1, B     3,200,000
100% of local
      and C of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
(b)  under Part A.2 of      2,600,000
80% of local 
the Project
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(4)
Consultants’ services
100%
and training
(a)  under Parts A.1, B
    5,500,000
and C of the Project
(b)  under Part A.2
    2,800,000
of the Project
(4)
IEC activitie
    1,100,000
100%
TOTAL
   19,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "IEC activities" means means production and distribution of 
information, education and communication activities under [Part B of] the Project, to 
promote knowledge of early child development services and their delivery, optimum 
behavior related to early child development, and advocacy for increased LGU investment 
in the delivery of such servicmaterials, including carrying out IEC campaigns, 
meetings, workshops and other activities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may 
be made in respect of Categories (3) (a), (4) (a) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after January 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $1,000,000$1,000,000 equivalent 
each;
(b)
works;
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent each, respectively;
(d)
training; and
(e)
IEC;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s Ten-year National 
Early Chilassist the Borrower in implementing its Ten-Year National Early Childhood 
Development Program in Regions VI, VII and XII of the Philippines (the Project 
Regions), in order to ensure the survival and promote the physical and mental 
development of young children in the most vulnerable and disadvantaged segments of the 
population in such Project Regions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  Early Childhood Development Services Delivery
1.
Support for the delivery of the following programs in the Project 
RegionsImplementation of programs to improve the delivery of services for early 
childhood development in the Project Regions, consisting of:
(a)
Expanded Program of Ian expanded program of immunization, through the 
provision of equipment and training;
Page  10
(b)
Program of Integrated Management of Child Ia program of integrated 
management of childhood illness, through the provision of equipment, training and 
training materials;
(c)
Program of Micronutrient Malnutrition Ca program of micronutrient 
malnutrition prevention and control, through the provision of micronutrient 
supplements, and technical assistanceconsultants’ services for the preparation of 
information, education and communication materials and activities to promote food 
fortification;
(d)
Program of Parent Effectiveness Service, through the preparation and 
provisa program of parent effectiveness service, through the provision of consultants’ 
services and materials for the preparation, production and distribution of parent 
training manuals; and
(e)
Program of Grade 1 Early Child Experience/ Early Child Development, 
through the provision of technical assistancea program to introduce an enriched Grade 
1 curriculum through the development of training and teaching materials, and provision 
of in-service training for teachers and  provision of, and micronutrient supplements 
and medicines for Grade 1 entrants.
2.
Improvement ofement in the provision of early child development services the 
delivery of services for early childhood development in selected municipalities and 
cities through the financing of specific investment Sub-projects of selected LGUs, 
including (a) the provision of training forspecific investment projects undertaken by 
LGUs, including (a) the training of health workers and child care and early education 
workers; (b) the construction, upgrading and repair of facilities; and (c) the 
provision of equipment, drugs, food supplements, teaching materials and information, 
education and communication materials.
Part B:  Institutional Development 
Support of LGUs in the implementation of their respective Sub-projects as 
followsDevelopment of LGU implementation capacity and support for the implementation 
of Sub-projects by:
1.
Carrying out of a program of advocacy for increased LGU investment in early 
childhood development services, addressed to LGUs and LGU leaders; promotion of 
correct delivery of early childhood development services by service providers and 
communities; and promotion of optimum behavior related to early childhood development 
in families and service providers, through the development of IEC materials and 
strategies, the conduct of IEC activities and evaluation of such materials and 
activities, and the provision of consultants’ services.
2.
Strengthening of the capacity of selected LGUs to plan, design, monitor and 
evaluate their investment Sub-projects for the purposes of developing and improving 
their delivery of early child development services, through the provision of technical 
assistanceSub-projects, through the provision of consultants’ services, equipment and 
training.
3.
Support of training in the integrated early child development system and 
services, through  the provision of technical assistance forDeveloping and carrying 
out programs of training in integrated early childhood development system and services 
for service providers, managers and trainers, including the development of courses, 
curricula and competency standards, and the establishment of a national early 
childhood development training accreditation system; and the provision of teaching and 
reference materials and of, through the provision of consultants’ services, teaching 
and reference materials, and training.
4.
Strengthening of the capacity of all levels of government to manage and operate 
effective early child development services, and ofDeveloping the capacity of 
communities and families to participate in the planning and implementation of such 
services, through the provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and 
upgrading of facilities to enhanceearly childhood development services, enhancement of 
the capacity of CWC to develop policy and provide program coordination and oversight, 
and to supportstrengthening of the management structure for the Ten-year National 
Early Childhood Development Program and the Project management functions, through the 
Page  11
provision of consultants’ services, training, equipment and upgrading of facilities.
Part C:  Research and Development
Support of research and development activities to enhanceEnhancement of the 
effectiveness of the Ten-year National Early Childhood Development Program and the 
Project as follows, through the carrying out of research and development programs, 
consisting of:
1.
Piloting of new interventions and service delivery mechanisms prior to their 
application on a Project-wide basis including, inter alia, piloting of new programs 
for protein energy malnutrition and for upgraded parent effectiveness services; and 
piloting of the guidelines for the preparation, evaluation, selection and monitoring 
of the investment Sub-Sub-projects.
projects of eligible LGUs.
2.
Research and testing of new approaches to the design, technical content and 
provision of early childhood development services.
3.
Undertaking of studies and surveys to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of 
early childhood development interventions.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2003
400,000
June 15, 2004
410,000
December 15, 2004
425,000
June 15, 2005
435,000
December 15, 2005
450,000
June 15, 2006
465,000
December 15, 2006
475,000
June 15, 2007
490,000
December 15, 2007
505,000
June 15, 2008
520,000
December 15, 2008
535,000
June 15, 2009
555,000
December 15, 2009
570,000
June 15, 2010
585,000
December 15, 2010
605,000
June 15, 2011
620,000
December 15, 2011
640,000
June 15, 2012
660,000
December 15, 2012
680,000
June 15, 2013
700,000
December 15, 2013
720,000
June 15, 2014
745,000
December 15, 2014
765,000
June 15, 2015
790,000
December 15, 2015
810,000
June 15, 2016
835,000
December 15, 2016
860,000
June 15, 2017
885,000
December 15, 2017
915,000
June 15, 2018
950,000
_____________________________
Page  12
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Part C, (a)(a)
Except 
as provided under paragraph 2 of this Part C, goods estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or more but not exceeding $ 200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; 
and
(b)
Except as provided under paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Part C, works 
shallmay be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
Page  13
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Force Account
Works under Part A.2 of the Project which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 
of the Guidelines, and costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The Procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to:
(a)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more; and
(b)
each year, irrespective of the estimated amount thereof, (i) the first 
two contracts for goods, and (ii) the first two contracts for works; provided that in 
respect of those contracts set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of this sub-paragraph (b) 
which cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, the following procedures shall apply: 
(A) prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures or the execution 
of any contract for small works, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (B) prior to the execution of 
any contract procured under shopping procedures or for small works, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  14
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management and Coordination 
1.
The Borrower shall (a) maintain an inter-agency Project Steering Committee, 
chaired by the secretary or the Secretary of DSWD, and comprised of representatives of 
Page  15
DOF, DOH, DECS, NEDA, DILG, CWC, the National Nutrition Council, the League of 
Governors, the League of Municipalities and NGOsa  duly  authorized representative of 
DSWD and with a composition to be agreed to with the Bank, to provide overall guidance 
in the implementation of the Project.  T; and (b) ensure that said Project Steering 
Committee shall meet at least once every calendar quarter to review the progress of 
the Project.
2.
In each of the Project Regions, the Borrower shall, by no later than July 31, 
1998, establish and, thereafter, maintain a Regional Early Childhood Development Team 
to be headed by the DSWD Regional Director, and to include the Regional Directors of 
DOH, DECS, NEDA, DILG, the regional representatives of the National Nutrition Council, 
the  Philippines Information Agency, and NGOswith a composition acceptable to the 
Bank, and with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank, to 
provide guidance to the regional PMO and monitor the implementation of the Ten-year 
National Early Childhood Development Program and of the Project in the Region.
3.
The Borrower shall cause each Province within the Project Regions to establish, 
by no later than August 31, 1998 and, thereafter, maintain a Provincial Early 
Childhood Development Team with functions, responsibilities and resources satisfactory 
to the Bank, to provide guidance and assistance to the provincial PMO in the 
implementation of the Project within such Province.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain a national PMO within DSWD with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank criteria of acceptability 
should be discussed at negotiations and recorded in the minutes, to coordinate, 
supervise and monitor the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
by no later than August 31, 1998 appoint, in addition to the national 
Project Director and national Project Coordinator, key staff acceptable to the Bank.
5.
In each Project Region, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain a regional PMO within the Regional DSWD Office, with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed by 
personnel; and
(b)
by no later than August 31, 1998 appoint, in addition to the regional 
Project Coordinator, key staff acceptable to the Bank.  list of such key staff and 
their qualifications should be discussed at negotiations and recorded in the minutes.
6.
The Borrower shall through each Province in the Project Regions: (i) establish 
by no later than August 31, 1998 and, thereafter, maintain a provincial Project 
Management Office, to be headed by a provincial Early Childhood Development Action 
Officer; and (ii) provide such provincial PMO with functions, responsibilities and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified personnel in adequate number 
to enable it to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Project within such 
Province.
B. Project 
Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with theby 
establishing, through MDF, an LGU Financing Facility to make available to LGUs a 
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as grants to finance eligible Sub-projects, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The LGU Financing Facility shall be administered in accordance with principles 
and procedures set forth in an LGU Financing Facility Manual of Operations 
satisfactory to the Bank.  The Manual of Operations shall set forth, inter alia: (a) 
the criteria and process for the selection of LGUs eligible for financing under Part 
A.2 of the Project; (b) the procedures and criteria for the review, appraisal and 
approval of LGU Sub-projects; (c) the policy, guidelines and general procedures to 
ensure the participation of indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of 
Sub-projects, and the implementation of the specific early childhood development plans 
Page  16
for indigenous people developed by LGUs, when applicable; (d) the cost-sharing 
arrangements between the Borrower and the respective LGUs; and (e) the procedures for 
monitoring and reporting of activities under the LGU Sub-projects.
3.
The Borrower, through the relevant Regional DSWS Office, shall4.
In respect of 
each Sub-project, the Borrower:
(a)
shall, through the national PMO enter into a Sub-project Assistance 
Agreement with the eligible LGU, satisfactory to the Bank. Said Sub-project Assistance 
Agreement shall specify the obligations of the LGU in accordance with the LGU 
Financing Facility Manual of Operations, including but not limited to its obligations 
to: (i) implement its respective Sub-project under Part A.2 of the Project; (ii) 
implement the indigenous people early childhood development strategy developed by the 
respective provincial PMO through its respective Sub-project; (iii) provide promptly 
as needed funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its respective 
Sub-project; and (iv) upon completion of its respective Sub-project, allocate adequate 
resources to ensure the continuing implementation of the objectives of said 
Sub-project;
(b)
shall not make available the proceeds of the Loan for financing such 
Sub-project until the Sub-project Assistance Agreement referred to in subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph B.4 has been entered into with the eligible LGU.
4.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Assistance 
Agreement entered into pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B.34 of this Schedule, 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such agreement or any provision thereof.
5.
The Borrower, through DOH, shall continue annually to provide and distribute 
micronutrients, including Vitamin A, iodized oil capsules and iron tablets and 
syrups,6.
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and, by November 30 of each year starting 
in 1998, furnish an annual micronutrient supplementation program to the Bank for its 
review and comments; and (b) thereafter, carry out said annual plan through DOH, 
taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that no weaning foods shall be used as food 
supplements in the protein-energy malnutrition control program under Part A.1 (c) of 
the Project unless such foods have been submitted to the Bureau of Foods and Drugs of 
DOH for quality-assurance testing and been certified as meeting the applicable 
Government standards.
7.
(a)
In order to ensure the informed participation of indigenous peoples in 
the development of Sub-projects under Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
prior to approving an investment project for financing as a Sub-project, require that 
the LGU proposing said project develop, if applicable, an indigenous people plan in 
accordance with the policy, principles and general procedures set forth in the LGU 
Financing Facility Manual of Operations and, thereafter, ensure that upon its 
approval, said Sub-project shall be implemented in accordance with such indigenous 
people plan as shall have been approved by the Borrower.
(b)
In order to strengthen the capabilities of the LGUs in formulating 
indigenous people plans, the Borrower shall:
(i)
through each provincial PMO, by no later than December 31, 1998, 
the Borrower shall, December 31, 1998, carry out a baseline survey 
of all major groups of indigenous people within such Project 
Page  17
Province, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
ensure that such baseline survey shall collect quantitative data 
on the status, knowledge, attitudes, practices and special needs 
of each such group in respect of early childhood development, its 
access to early childhood development services, service 
utilization, receptivity to the Project and willingness to 
participate in it;
(iii)
ensure that each provincial PMO shall also hold consultations with 
each such group;
(iv)
by no later than March 31, 1999, on the basis of such baseline 
survey findings and in accordance with the policy and procedures 
regarding Indigenous Peoples set forth in the Manual of 
Operations, through the Provincial Early Childhood Development 
Team and the provincial PMO, develop a provincial indigenous 
people early childhood development strategy acceptable to the Bank 
which will incorporate distinct strategies for each major groups 
of indigenous people within such Project Province, as may be 
necessary; and
(v)
thereafter, ensure that said baseline survey findings and 
provincial indigenous people early childhood development 
strategies are applied by the LGUs in their development of 
indigenous people plans pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph B.8.
9.
The Borrower shall: (a) by September 30, 1998 formulate a training program for 
Part B.3 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish said training program to the Bank for its review and comments; and (b) 
thereafter, carry out said program taking into consideration the Bank’s view on the 
matter.
10.
The Borrower shall, by no later than September 30, 1998, put into effect its 
Financial Information System for Foreign-Assisted Projects.
11.
The Borrower shall, by no later than July 31, 1998:
(a)
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (i) complete the design 
for the National Nutrition Survey to be carried out in 1998; and (ii) formulate the 
evaluation protocol for the pilot programs for protein energy malnutrition and for 
parent effectiveness services under Part C.1 of the Project; and
(b)
provide said design and evaluation protocol to the Bank for its review 
and comment and, thereafter, put them into effect in carrying out the National 
Nutrition Survey and in evaluating Part C.1 of the Project, taking into consideration 
the Banks’ view thereon.   
12.
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the studies and surveys under Part C.3 of the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) provide 
the Bank for its review and comments the results and recommendations of such studies 
and surveys.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
Page  18
1.
In respect of Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) closely monitor 
the piloting of new early childhood development interventions and service delivery 
systems; and (ii) by December 31, 1999 prepare under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank and provide to the Bank for its review and comment an evaluation of each such 
pilot intervention.
2.
The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1998 carry out a baseline survey in 
respect of early childhood development and the quality and level of related services 
in the Project Regions, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) by June 
30, 1999, review with the Bank the findings of such survey with the view to, as the 
case may be, to confirm or modify, as the case may beconfirm the key performance  
indicators, baseline values and targets acceptable to the Bank or to modify such 
indicators, baseline values and targets in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) by June 30, 2004 carry out a repeat survey under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank for the purpose of evaluating the achievements and impact of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators and targets acceptable to 
the Bank the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing in July 1998 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagrah (a) of this paragraph C.3, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the preceding semester, and setting out measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such dates; 
(c)
on or about September 30, 2000, carry out a mid-term review under terms 
of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding such date and setting out measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d)
review with the Bank, within one month following the date of each such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, each report referred to in 
sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of this paragraph C.3, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3 (a), (2) 
(b), (3) (a), (3) (b), (4) (a), (4) (b) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal $1,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$900,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amounts of 
Page  19
$6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposits into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
Page  20
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
