Page  1
March 29, 2001
His Excellency
Jose Isidro Camacho
Secretary
Department of Finance
DoF Building, Roxas Blvd.
Manila, Philippines
Excellency:
Re:
Loan 4301- PH (Early Childhood Development Project) 
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated April 8, 1998, between the Republic of the 
Philippines (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) for the Early Childhood Development Project, as amended, and to 
the letter dated March 14, 2001, from Assistant Secretary Roberto B. Tan, Department 
of Finance, requesting the establishment of a second Special Account under the Loan 
Agreement.
I am pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Bank has agreed to 
your request to amend the Loan Agreement, as set forth below.
1.
Section 1.02 (q) of the Loan Agreement is amended to read:
"(q)
'Special Accounts' means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement."
2.
Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement is amended to read:
"(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A.1, A.2 (as it 
relates to Category (4) (b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement), B and C of the 
Project and for purposes of Part A.2 of the Project (except for Category (4) (b) 
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement), open and maintain in dollars a separate 
special deposit account in a commercial bank, specifically authorized for this 
purpose by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement."
3.
Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read:
"SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2)(a), 3(a), 4 
and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in 
respect of Parts A.1, A.2, B and C of the Project and Categories 1, 2(b) and 
3(b) set forth in said table in respect of Part A.2 of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A.1, A.2 (as it relates 
Page  2
to Category (4) (b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement), B and C of the Project 
and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part 
A.2 of the Project (except Category (4) (b)), to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $600,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Parts A.1, B and C of the Project and an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A.2 
thereof, until (i) in respect of the Special Account for Parts A.1, A.2 (as it 
relates to Category (4) (b)), B and C of the Project, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (2)(a), 3(a), 4 and 5 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.1, A.2, B 
and C of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000, 
and (ii) in respect of the Special Account for Part A.2 of the Project (except 
Category (4) (b)), the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to Categories 1, 2(b) and 3(b) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A.2 of the Project (except Category (4) 
(b)) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  3
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions."
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the enclosed duplicate of this letter in the space provided, and by returning it to 
us.  The above amendments will become effective as of the date of confirmation.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Page  4
Country Director
Philippines
East Asia and the Pacific
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC  OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Juanita D. Amatong
Authorized Representative
Date: April 20, 2001
