Page  1
October 30, 1996
Honorable Roberto De Ocampo
Secretary, Department of Finance
Bangko Sentral Complex
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Re:
Japanese Grant for Early Child Development Project
Grant No. TF 029613
Dear Sir:   
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by the Government of Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($ 350,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of the 
Philippines (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Director
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Cecilia G. Soriano
Date:
02-19-97
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a)
Development of a proposal for project financing mechanisms and 
operational procedures for such mechanisms.
(b)
Development of draft proposals for Local Government Units (LGU) 
cost-sharing policies; finalization of such policies; studies of LGU finance and 
expenditure patterns.
(c)
Preparation of an institutional development plan for Early Child 
Development (ECD) project management at the central, regional, provincial and 
municipal level and for the LGUs; assessment of training and system-strengthening 
Page  2
needs.
(d)
Finalization of a plan for participation by communities and 
non-governmental organizations (NGO) in the ECD program; development of operational 
guidelines for implementation of such plan.
(e)
Finalization of an institutional development training plan; development 
of training curricula.
(f)
Finalization of a strategy to educate, inform and communicate  with LGUs 
with respect to the ECD program;  research on means to carry out such strategy.
(g)
Carrying out of the consultation process with communities and LGUs with 
respect to  the ECD program.
(h)
Refinement and operationalization of various pilot initiatives, research 
plans and proposals under the ECD program.   
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance:  (a) consultants’ services required for the 
Activities; (b) workshops and seminars related to the Activities, including for the 
purposes of educating, informing and communicating with and seeking the participation 
of communities and LGUs with respect to the ECD program; and (c) operating costs for 
the Technical Assistance Support Unit within the Department of Health.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1997.  After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
