                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36105

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43010)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.00 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                              PHILIPPINES

                                                FOR AN

                          EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              May 30, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2006)

                  Currency Unit = Philippine Pesos
                       Php 1.00 = US$ 0.194
                      US$ 1.00 = PhP 51.51

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     ADB           Asian Development Bank
     CBC           Communications for Behavior Change
     CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
     CDW           Child Development Worker
     CWC           Council of Welfare of Children
     DepED         Department of Education
     DHS           Demographic Health Services
     DOH           Department of Health
     DSWD          Department of Social Welfare and Development
     ECD           Early Childhood Development
     ECCD          Early Child Care Development
     ECE           Early Childhood Experience
     EPI           Expended Program of Immunization
     FMS           Financial Management Specialist
     GOP           Government of Philippines
     IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
     ICB           International Competitive Bidding
     IMCI          Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
     LGU           Local Government Units
     LGUFF         Local Government Unit Financing Facility
     MTR           Mid-Term Review
     NCB           National Competitive Bidding
     PAD           Project Appraisal Document
     PAGCOR        Philippine Amusement and Games Corporation
     PEM           Protein Energy Malnutrition
     ES            Parent Effectiveness Service
     PSR           Project Status Report
     QER           Quality Enhancement Review
     RSCW          Regional Sub-Committees Council of Welfare for Children
     WB            World Bank



                 Vice President:    Jeffrey Gutman
              Country Director      Xian Zhu
               Sector Manager       Fadia Saadah
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Rekha Menon

                                        PHILIPPINES
                                 Early Childhood Development


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8: Studies, Policies and Laws Implemented Under the Project                37

Project ID: P004566                                                  Project Name: EARLY CHILDHOOD
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Rekha Menon                                             TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 2, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-43010
   Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (90%); Pre-primary education (5%); Sub-national government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Other communicable diseases (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/18/1996                                     Effective: 07/07/1998                09/28/1998
     Appraisal: 12/15/1997                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  11/14/2001
      Approval: 03/24/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Philippines/Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD)
                      Other Partners:      Center for the Welfare of Children (CWC), Department of Health (DOH),
                                           Department of Education (DepED)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Joachim von Amsberg                            Vinay Bhargava
Sector Manager:                 Fadia M. Saadah                                Maureen Law
Team Leader at ICR:             Rekha Menon                                    Althea Hill
ICR Primary Author:             Claudia Rokx; Rekha Menon


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
   Despite an excellent start in addressing early childhood development issues, the situation of children in
                               1


   the Philippines in the 1990s was considerably worse off compared to other countries at the same level of
   economic development.          Ill health, malnutrition, and poor psychosocial development among
   pre-schoolers were costing the country substantial amounts in terms of premature deaths, permanent
   disabilities, and lost future productivity and income.

   The poor progress in child welfare was, in large part, due to the economic stagnation and
   under-investment in welfare programs during the Marcos period (1965-1986). Social indicators, infant
   mortality declined much slower in the Philippines than in other low and middle-income countries in
   Asia. For example, in the 1960s, Thailand and Philippines had similar infant mortality rates. By the
   1990s (when this project was prepared), IMR in Thailand was at 30 per 1,000 live births while in the
   Philippines the rate was 57 per 1,000 live births. Although early childhood development programs and
   several programs were in place, these were grossly under-funded and poorly integrated across the
   various sectors. The situation worsened with devolution, which was slow to address inequalities in
   resources distribution. Despite strong political commitment at the national level, Local Government
   Units (LGUs), did not accord ECD-programs high budgetary priority: commitment remained largely in
   rhetoric.

   In response to these concerns, the government set up a multi-agency Steering Committee to develop a
   10-year National ECD Program and requested the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to
   conduct studies to help program design.

   The ECD project aimed to support the first six years of this 10-year National Early Childhood
   Development (ECD) Program in three regions (Region VI, VII and XII). The project's objectives
   (which were the same as that of the National ECD Program) were to (i) contribute to the attainment of
   human development goals in these regions by providing services that ensure survival and promote
   physical and mental development of Filipino children, particularly those who are most vulnerable and
   disadvantaged and (ii) to establish an effective partnership between national and Local Governments
   Units (LGUs) in the provision of ECD services.

   The achievement of the first objective would be measured by a reduction in under-five mortality by 30%
   of the baseline value; improvement in child malnutrition rates and reduction in the prevalence of
   micronutrient deficiencies with a 40% reduction in wasting among children under seven and a 30%
   reduction in iron-deficiency. The achievement of effective partnerships would be measured by the
   percentage of targeted municipalities that will have implemented the ECD packages by the end of the
   project and the increase in spending on ECD-activities at the municipal level.

   The development objective was clear and in full accordance with the Government of Philippines'
   10-year ECD Program vision and strategy, as well as the development strategy of the World Bank
   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS-15362) for the Philippines. The two salient features of the project
   were: (i) it advocated a cross-sectoral and integrated approach to the delivery of ECD-services at the
   local level and (ii) it was among the first in the Bank to field a rigorous impact-evaluation study
   measuring impact of interventions in a program setting.

   The project was a joint but parallel financed operation between the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
   and the World Bank. It became effective on September 28, 1998 and closed on November 30, 2005.



                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
   The original objectives were not revised.


3.3 Original Components:
   The project consisted of the following parts/components:

   Component 1(A): The Early Childhood Development Services Delivery (US $4.6 million)

   Implementation of programs to improve delivery of services for early childhood development in the three
   project Regions (VI, VII and XII) for five programs for a total cost of US$ 4.6 million

   1. The Expanded Program of Immunization would supply inputs to the existing EPI-program
       including cold-chain equipment and replacement, training of cold-chain technicians in maintenance
       and repair and health care staff in basic EPI-skills; reproduction of IEC-EPI materials and
       monitoring charts.
   2. The Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) program, which aimed at improving the
       diagnosis, management and treatment of common childhood-illnesses, through the provision of
       in-service IMCI-training for health staff, supporting the integration of IMCI-curricula of medical,
       nursing and midwifery schools, and supplying delivery- and diet-kits to improve case-management
       of conditions affecting the new-born.
   3. The Micronutrient Malnutrition Prevention and Control program aimed at preventing, managing
       and controlling micronutrient deficiencies through supplementation, fortification and deworming of
       children.
   4. The Parent-Effectiveness Service program would upgrade the former PES-program with the
       introduction of a Mother and Child book in which permanent records of the child's development and
       guidance were included. The book would be incorporated into the Teacher-Child-Parent program of
       the Department of Education as well as into the Department of Health (DOH)'s health education
       program.
   5. The Grade I ECE/ECD program aimed at improving child readiness for elementary schools through
       the introduction of an 8-week module curriculum and teacher training and provision of materials.
       Grade I children would also receive iron-supplementation and deworming.

   Programs 1, 2 and 3 were managed by the Department of Health (DOH), program 4 by the Department
   of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) and program 5 by the Department of Education.

   Component 1(B): Financing Facility (US$ 5.4 million)

   In addition to the five programs, the first component included a Financing Facility. This facility was
   initially operated by the Municipal Development Fund and later transferred to DSWD. It provided
   matching financing on an income-related cost-sharing basis for investments in upgrading ECD-services
   at the LGU level. Eligible services included: the construction, upgrading and repair of facilities; and the
   provision of equipment, drugs, food supplements.




                                                   - 3 -

   Component 2: Support to Service Delivery (US$ 9.2 million)

   This component aimed to support the LGUs in the areas of communications (US$1.3 million), planning,
   targeting and Management Information Systems (MIS) (US$3.7 million) and training (US$.4 million) at
   the central, regional, provincial and municipal levels. In particular, support was to be provided to the
   Council of Welfare for Children (CWC) which was to become the apex agency for the national
   ECD-program in the long-term. The component was managed by DSWD (US$3.8M).

   Component 3: Research and Development (US$1.7 million)

   This component was to finance R&D activities in support of effective ECD program implementation,
   including piloting interventions, testing new and innovative approaches, and monitoring and evaluating
   the effectiveness and impact of the project, including base and end-line surveys. This component would
   be managed by DSWD in coordination with CWC.

   The objectives of these three components combined, were to contribute to (i) the attainment of human
   development goals of ensuring child survival and improving child physical and mental development and
   (ii) establishing an effective partnership between national and local governments.

   The components were well related to achieving these objectives. The design benefited from extensive
   sector work and experiences in the social sectors from other projects in the Philippines as well as from
   international experience in ECD projects.
3.4 Revised Components:
   The original components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
   The project pre-dates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Reviews, so no official
   Quality as Entry assessment is available. However, the Quality at Entry of the project may be rated as
   moderately satisfactory.

   The project covered the three regions which allowed for the evaluation of a sufficiently large pilot
   without being too ambitious. The project's design was based on extensive sector work that had been
   carried out before project preparation in partnership between the two main financiers and the
   government. The sector work provided a detailed overview of the issues in ECD, the status of current
   interventions in the health and education sectors as well as the level of integration, and provided
   strategic recommendations. Both the sector work and project preparation benefited from stakeholder
   consultations and external experts.

   The project's implementation arrangements were adapted to the local circumstances. LGUs at the time
   of preparation of the ECD-project lacked necessary institutional capacity and commitment. The project,
   therefore, aimed at improving the quality of existing programs and interventions and only adding new
   services in areas already implementing ECD services.

   An evaluation and research component was also built into the project design to ensure continued
   learning during project implementation and to help demonstrate and document key lessons learned to
   guide future developments of the Program.




                                                     - 4 -

   On the other hand, while a detailed Project Implementation Plan had been prepared to guide
   implementation, arrangements for implementation, such as establishment of project management teams,
   procurement bidding documents (due to delays in contracting of procurement functions to an
   international private procurement agency) and financial management arrangements had not been
   finalized by appraisal and delayed project effectiveness. As a result, the project took a long time to take
   off; actual implementation started effectively after the first 18 months.

   Although the risks were appropriately identified at the design stage, the risk rating was under-estimated.
   The risk associated with the changes in leadership and commitment to program implementation was
   rated as low at the design stage. In hindsight, political considerations were not sufficiently taken into
   account in the design of institutional arrangements. Constant changes in leadership were at the root of
   problems encountered in the initial years of project implementation and responsible for long delays.
   Political commitment to the project however was very strong. The coordination of ECD activities was
   however divided between DSWD and CWC and leadership and management issues were not clearly
   defined early on. CWC had the mandate for national ECD Program while DSWD was the lead agency
   for the ECD Project.

   On the whole, while the project concept, the rationale, the design and objectives all were appropriate
   since implementation arrangements were not finalized and did delay effectiveness, the quality at entry is
   rated as moderately satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   Achievement of the overall objective is rated satisfactory.

   The results reported in this section are based on several sources: project's monitoring data, the findings
   of a longitudinal impact evaluation study as well as the specific studies and assessments undertaken
   during project implementation. The key performance indicators of the project are monitored by
   comparing the baseline and endline survey results. In addition, results of the impact-evaluation study
   using longitudinal data over three rounds over three years ending late 2003 in randomly selected
   households in two treatment (Region VI and VII) and one control area (Region VII) are used to show
   impact of exposure to ECD programs on key indicators where appropriate.

   The overall aim of the project of contributing to the attainment of human development goals of ensuring
   child survival and improving child physical and mental development was achieved.                 In addition,
   accessibility to services crucial to the survival of children and the promotion of physical and mental
   development increased as a result of the project. Measures of achievement of the program/project
   development objectives include (see Table below):
   a) Reduction in under five mortality rates in project areas - since the Demographic Health Survey 2003
   was not representative at the regional level it was difficult to estimate the exact reduction - national level
   data however shows 16.7% reduction overall and there is evidence that in the project regions the
   reduction is even higher;
   b) 53 % decrease in the proportion of children under 6 years old with anemia;
   c) 59% reduction in malnutrition among under-seven children;
   d) increase in proportion of children 12-18 months old who are fully immunized to 92%;
   e) improved gross motor skills among children under 6 years old; and
   f) increased completion rate of Grade 1 to 89% of Grade 1 entrants.



                                                     - 5 -

                                                      Key Performance Indicators
                                                                 Outcomes
                                                Baseline              End of
                  Indicators                      2001*              Project   Achievement     Data source

                                                                               16.7%
   1. Reduction by 30% of under-                                               reduction<30%
   five mortality rate from the                  48/1000             40/ 1000  target          National Level data
   baseline                                      (1998 )              (2003)                   (NDHS)
                                                                               (No regional
                                                                               level data
                                                                               available to
                                                                               measure
                                                                               achievement)

   2. Reduction by 30% of
   children under six with anemia                                              Achieved
   from the baseline value                         34.4                15.9    53%reduction    Baseline; Endline

   3. Reduction by 40% in
   proportion under six with
   Grade 2 or 3 wasting from the
   baseline value (acute
   malnutrition)                                FNRI: 6.2               2.2    Achieved        NCHS, FNRI; Endline
                                                                               59% (NCHS)
                                                                               64%
                                               NCHS:5.4                        (FNRI)reduction

   4. Increase to 90% in
   proportion of children aged 12-
   18 mos. fully immunized from
   baseline                                        80.1                91.6    Achieved

   5. Improvement in a combined
   index of child development
   (motor and cognitive skills)
   among children

    Proportion of children with                                  1 yr exposure Gross motor:
   below average gross motor                     Program           in program  Significant
   development                                 area: 11.0          area:4.6**  impact          Longitudinal Study
                                                 Control               2 yrs
                                              area:    13.0     exposure:8.5**

   Proportion of children with                                  1 yr. exposure Cognitive: No
   below average cognitive                       Program        in program     Significant
   development                                   area:0.7       area: 1.0      impact
                                                 Control        2 yrs.
                                                 area:1.8       Exposure: -0.4
   6. Increase in completion rate
   for Grade 1 to 70%                               58                   89    Achieved        DepEd 2005 data




** Statistically significant improvement between program and control areas

    The corollary goal of the project and the 10-year national ECD-plan of the GOP, the establishment of
    effective partnerships between national and local governments for the provision of ECD-services have



                                                                       - 6 -

   been fully met. ECD-programs and services increased in the participating municipalities and there is
   indication that spending for such services also increased in a number of municipalities. Achievements in
   project outputs in targeted LGUs include:
   a) increase in the proportion of children aged 3-5 years old attending day care centers in target
   municipalities from 27.4% to 75%;
   b) establishment of functioning protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) programs in 59.1% for infant
   feeding and 86.4% for growth monitoring of the target municipalities/cities;
   c) establishment of active child development workers in 63% of target municipalities/cities; and,
   d) implementation of ECD sub-projects in 90% of targeted municipalities/cities.

                                               Outputs: Targeted LGU Indicators
           7. Increase to 75% in proportion of
           total children aged three to five in
           targeted municipalities attending day     <60%                                 2005 monitoring
           care centers.                             (27.4)      75%       Achieved       data

           8. Establishment of functional PEM-
           programs in 50% of
           municipalities/cities.
                  a. growth monitoring                           86.4      Achieved       Endline Survey
                   b. Infant feeding                             59.1      Achieved
           9. Establishment of active CDW in
           50% of municipalities/cities.                         63%       Achieved        Endline Survey

           10. Implementation of ECD
           subprojects in 90% of targeted                                                 2005 monitoring
           municipalities.                                       90%       Achieved       data



   In addition, as the project targeted poor and disadvantaged families and children and prioritized poorer
   provinces, municipalities and barangays. As such, access to ECD services improved for vulnerable
   groups. In particular, access to services for indigenous peoples in the project regions was specifically
   monitored and was found to have improved as a result of the project.

   As shown above the project achieved almost all of its stated objectives. Thus, the achievement of the
   development objective is rated as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
   Component I(A): Early Child Development Service Delivery­ Moderately Satisfactory

   The first component consisted of the implementation of 5 ECD-programs at the Barangay level.

   The Immunization (EPI) program (moderately satisfactory) aimed at enhancing the efficiency and
   effectiveness of EPI by infusing additional financial and technical resources at provincial, municipal and
   Barangay levels. In particular the project would replace old equipment, where needed, improve
   maintenance of existing cold-chain equipment and provide additional training to rural health midwives.

   Inputs: In Region VI (the World Bank supported region) the proportion of LGUs with functional cold
   chain equipment increased from 65% in 2000 to 91% in 2004. Region VII showed no increase, while in
   region XII there was an increase from 63% to 84%. Cold-chain management improved and by 2004,
   83% of the district health facilities had functional cold chain management. Training in EPI-Cold Chain
   management accompanied the replacement and improved maintenance activities; by 2004, 90% of



                                                        - 7 -

health service providers were trained. However only 20 percent of rural midwives in Region VI (a key
sub-group of health service providers for the project) and 50% of those in Region VII, interviewed in the
longitudinal study, reported having received this training by 2004.

Results: By round three of the impact evaluation, 89 percent of children 1 to 2 years of age in Region VI
and 88 percent in Region VII were fully immunized. Although this is not higher than in earlier rounds, it
is 12 percentage-points higher than the immunization rate among this age-group in the control area.
Endline survey results show that 92% of children in project areas were fully immunized compared with
80% at baseline thus achieving the project target.

Constraints and facilitating factors: Insufficient travel budget for regional and provincial health teams
led to inadequate monitoring and supervision of frontline providers at the Barangay level raising
service-quality concerns. Logistics for the delivery of vaccines were poorly managed. Despite sufficient
supply, at the local level, vaccines arrived late and sometimes were near-expiration. These problems
were particularly acute in remote and difficult to access areas.         Serious delays in updating the
information on the need for vaccine-carriers resulted in inadequate forecasting and poor supply chain
management. In 2005, after consultations on these constraints, the government initiated the "Reaching
Every Barangay" program which aims at improving the EPI-program by defining catchment areas for
midwifes, clear performance goals and assuring better transport. Later in the project, these adjustments
appear to show positive results.

The IMCI-program (moderately satisfactory) aimed at improving the diagnosis, management and
treatment of common childhood conditions such as malaria, pneumonia, diarrhea, dengue and
tuberculosis. In addition to the training for rural health workers, IMCI-booklets, recording forms, drugs
and equipment were provided.

Inputs: In 2004, 65% of the 330 rural health units/city health offices, covered under the project, had at
least 60% of staff trained in IMCI. Community based health and nutrition workers were also trained in
IMCI but this training started late in the project which explains the low achievement to date, 16% of all
local health and nutrition workers were trained, except in Region VI where 67% were trained. There
was however strong support from local Barangay officials for this training and as a result a large
number of Barangay Health and Nutrition Posts are currently functional.

Results: This program has had mixed results. The impact-evaluation study found positive trends in
reduction in wasting and the proportion of children with worms among the younger age groups
(children under three), but for the older-age groups the results were mixed. The study also showed a
positive trend in the reduction in the proportion of children suffering from diarrhea among young
children, but not in the older-age groups. The study also found significant differences in the quality of
services delivered by providers between program and non-program areas. In program-areas providers
were more likely to make referrals, counsel clients, monitor new cases and perform follow-up home
visits.

Constraints and facilitating factors:      Factors that negatively affected the implementation of this
program are the long duration of the training courses provided. Training in IMCI takes on average three
weeks and supervisors were found to be reluctant to allow staff to stay away from their jobs for such
long periods. There was insufficient funding for these training programs and in Regions VII and XII the
number of hospitals accredited to conduct such training was also limited. In addition, in some cases,
doctors' refusal of referrals from mid-wives trained in IMCI was perceived as a de-motivating factor.
While non-availability of IMCI-protocol and inadequate supply of drugs remained a constraint, the


                                                   - 8 -

construction of additional health centers and related increased availability of supplies contributed to an
overall improvement in access and use.

The Nutrition programs (PEM, Micronutrient supplementation and Food fortification) (moderately
satisfactory) aimed at reducing the rate of malnutrition, both under-nutrition and micronutrient
malnutrition, among children under the age of four.

Inputs: While the supplementary feeding-programs aimed at reducing underweight, the
growth-promotion activities aimed at preventing and reducing the risk of malnutrition by (i) monitoring
children's weight to enable early detection of growth faltering and (ii) counseling mothers and
caretakers. Both feeding programs (wet feeding where the child is fed on-site in a center-based setting
and dry feeding where a take-home ration is administered at home) were underutilized. Only 28 percent
of underweight children benefited from the wet feeding and 10 percent from dry feeding by project
closing. Participation in growth promotion program decreased slightly during project implementation
(from 100% coverage in project LGUs to 86%),and there were serious quality concerns with regard to
messages and materials provided, as well as the adequacy of time provided for counseling mothers and
care-takers. Vitamin A supplementation of children between 11 and 59 months increased, but did so
in both program and non-program areas - it is therefore difficult to attribute this gain to the program.
The project monitoring data shows about 75% of children were provided Vitamin A supplementation,
compared with 85% coverage necessary for effective reduction in child mortality rates. The percentage
of mothers receiving vitamin A within a month after delivery too increased from 47.3% in 2002 to
73.6% by 2005, with the largest improvement in Region VI which increased coverage from 0.5% to
60.2% during this period. Vitamin A is provided to mothers after delivery to boost the infant's Vitamin
A intake through breast-milk. Iron-supplementation for children under four years of age increased
more in the program areas than in the non-program areas between the first and last rounds of the
surveys. In Region VI supplementation of this age-group increased from 15 to 22 percent, in Region
VII it increased from 6 to 33 percent. Iron supplementation for pregnant women remained fairly
stagnant at the initial 50% level in all three regions, with minor increases in region VI and VII. The food
fortification program was aimed at improving the sustainability of the micronutrient deficiency
programs. The DOH requires and provides food-producers with a "Sangkap Pinoy" seal for food that
are fortified with iron, vitamin A and iodine. Although more vendors sold products with the seal in
2004, the consumption of these food products in the program areas did not vary significantly between
the rounds of the longitudinal study. Some products were consumed more often, some less often; there
are no clear trends to be detected that can be explained.

Results: Positive results were found for acute malnutrition (weight for height) but negative results were
found for chronic malnutrition. Sustainability concerns arise with regards to feeding programs. While
acute malnutrition, if related to acute food shortages or frequent bouts of diarrhea and infections, can be
temporarily improved with extra feeding, chronic malnutrition requires behavior change in breastfeeding
and weaning practices. The program significantly reduced the proportion of anemic children and those
with low hemoglobin counts especially in poor municipalities. In these areas, anemia among children in
progam areas declined from 26% to 8%. In poor non-program areas, the decline was less steep from 34
to 16%. Additionally, the adoption and subsequent application of the ASIN law (Republic Act No 8172
was passed in 1995 promoting salt iodization nationwide and DOH launched a major national campaign
to implement the Law in 2002) has been successful. In 2004 85% of households used iodized salt. In
Region VI, the increase has been most impressive, from 22% in 2000 to 89% in 2004. In this region, all
LGUs complied with a local ordinance on iodized salt. All three regions also saw a substantial increase
in vendors of salt that tested positive for iodine content, the availability reaching 91% in the three



                                                    - 9 -

regions in 2004.

Constraints and facilitating factors: Awareness and training provided under the project contributed
positively to the program. Barangay health and nutrition workers in program areas were more likely to
conduct home-visits and dispense nutritional supplements according to the results of the
impact-evaluation. The advocacy and strong communications program around iodized salt had a very
positive influence in creating awareness. At Phase 3 of the longitudinal survey, it was found that a
considerable number of households in project areas (a third in Region VII) that were using iodized
salts were not even aware they were doing so, suggesting a very high level of vendor compliance.
November 7 has been designated as the national food fortification day in Philippines. Delays in the
development of the materials, pre-testing and training however reduced the impact of this component but
it is likely to show benefits beyond the project period.

The ECD-programs (satisfactory), the child-minding program, child day-care program and the
Grade-1 enrollment program were aimed at enhancing the cognitive and psycho-social development of
children. Mothers and caretakers were encouraged to let their children participate in these programs.

Inputs: The child-day-care program was administered in day-care centers at the Barangay level for
children ages 3 to 5. A total of 90 percent of the Barangays had a day-care center by the end of the
project. According to the monitoring data, in Region VI, participation increased from 32% in 2000 to
52% in 2004, while there was hardly a minimal increase in Region VII (from 35% in 2000 to 38% in
2004). The Department of Education (DepEd) trained more Grade-1 teachers than projected (by 10%)
on the 8th Week Curriculum. The Early Childhood Care and Development (ECCD)-checklist was
developed in 2004. Almost half of the targeted providers were trained in the use of the checklist and in
2005, 23% of children were assessed. There is no data on the assessments themselves or how children
rank. The Parent Effectiveness Service (PES) Program was aimed at improving parent's active
participation in ECD-programs. By the end of the project, almost 80% of the targeted providers
(Municipal Social Welfare Development Officers, child development workers, Day-care workers) were
trained in PES. More than 100,000 parents attended at least four of the 8 modules of PES, but only few
of the fathers attended. There is no data on the total target group of parents or on how many parents
dropped out after attending fewer than four modules.

Results: The findings from the impact-evaluation study suggest positive impact from the programs and
an increase in impact (willingness to attend PES workshop) with increased duration of the program.
Psycho-social, and gross motor development among children less than 4 years of age at the time of the
survey improved significantly in program areas. Younger children exhibited faster improvement in
psycho-social development than older children. Among two and three year olds that were exposed to the
program, Z-scores were higher by one half to 1.8 standard deviations for motor and language
development. The impact of the grade-1-enrollement program was also positive. According to the
Department of Education, a base-line assessment found 50% of children were not ready for Grade I at
the appropriate age for entry to school. After the 8-week school readiness curriculum, 80% of those
children formerly not ready were found to be ready for Grade I.

Constraints and facilitating factors: The child-minding program and supervised neighborhood play
catered to children under the age of 3 whose mothers work away from home. These services were
uncommon before the project and for the child minding program, participation levels remained low
during the project life. Unfamiliarity with the concept, having to pay fees for the service as well as the
availability of the choice of leaving the child with family members were given as explanations for the
lack of uptake in many areas. It did work well in one area Carmen, a very poor resettlement area where


                                                  - 10 -

the neighborhood got organized around the children's neighborhood play. The quality of the daycare
improved with the revised day-care manual and upgrading of many of the facilities; some anecdotal
information include parents' satisfaction with the improved safety of day-care centers as they are now
built further away from the main road. Grade I teachers reported very positive improvements in skills
and competencies of Grade I pupils thanks to their (the teacher's) better training as well as better and
more educational materials. A large percentage of these children also had prior ECD-experience in the
day-care, child-minding and preschools. A Save the Children Fund (USA) study found them better
prepared for Grade I than those children that had not attended any ECD-setting before starting Grade I.
Parents participating in the PES were mainly the mothers and commented that the time of the meetings
interfered with their daily work.

Although the ECD-programs were satisfactorily implemented and show positive results, the basic health
and nutrition programs were only moderately satisfactory. Combining these two ratings, the first
component is rated moderately satisfactory.

Component I(B): Financing Facility for LGUs - Satisfactory

The financing facility for LGUs provided matching funds for LGUs wishing to invest in upgrading their
ECD-services through a flexible cost-sharing scheme based on LGU income levels but with full
funding (by LGUs) of major recurrent costs.

Inputs: By December 2004, 7941 Barangays in 320 LGUs with a total population of 12.5 million or 2.3
million households were covered under the program in the three regions (VI, VII and XII). Of the 320
LGUs, 132 received LGUFF grants in 2005, which accounts for 100% of what was projected based on
income-levels and needs.       LGUFF grants were provided on a progressive basis depending on
LGU-income status. A total of 933 new day care centers were constructed and 924 repaired while 245
new Barangay Health posts were constructed and 498 rehabilitated. ECD-resources centers at the
municipal level, part of the overall improved ECD-package were established in most municipalities.
These resource centers provide materials to day care workers, showcase new materials and are used as
centers for capacity building such as training of health and nutrition workers and other service providers
as well as organizing seminars and other targeted information sessions for local politicians, mayors etc..

Results: There has been a substantial increase in ECD-services in program areas. Between 2002 and
2004, the proportion of municipalities implementing feeding-programs increased in the program areas
from 32% to 70%, while in non-program areas it only increased form 28% to 39%. PES-programs
were implemented in 100% of the municipalities in program-areas, up from 77% in 2002. There was no
increase in the non-program areas, rather a decrease from 68 to 63%. Home-based day care increased
from 16 to 44% in the program areas - despite earlier mentioned limited demand for this program. It is
almost non-existent in non-program areas. The project has also been successful in improving the
capacity of ECD-providers through regular training and provision of updated and new materials. The
impact-evaluation study shows that by the third round of the survey, midwives and day-care providers
in the program areas were substantially more likely than providers in non-program areas to have
received training in parent education (PES-program), management of childhood illness (IMCI) and
growth monitoring. Barangay health workers were also more likely to have received training, but only
on ECD topics and not on health topics, in comparison to other health providers.

Constraints and facilitating factors: A wide-spread communication campaign advocated that the `sky
was the limit", and that there was no ceiling to the amount of matching funds available to LGUs under
this cost sharing scheme. However, given budget limitations, soon after the campaign, a ceiling of PhP5


                                                 - 11 -

million was introduced on the loan funds made available to each LGU. This dampened the enthusiasm
but not to the extent that LGUs were no longer interested.

As mentioned earlier, not all ECD services introduced under the project were in demand and this is
reflected in the investments made by LGUs.          Few municipalities invested in the daycare-mother
package, while almost all included the rural midwife package. While there was some demand for
nutrition programs, it was not as much as that for the micronutrient packages. The ECD-resource
centers while highly demanded by the users i.e., the day-care workers, they were less frequently utilized
in remote areas as the fees charged for late-return of borrowed materials were high.

Component II: Institutional Development / Support to Service Delivery ­Satisfactory

The advocacy activities which focused on raising awareness about the program and ensuring
commitment from the local government to support the ECD-programs and improvement of the
ECD-packages in their locality were very successful.        Almost all LGUs responded positively to
improving ECD-services and a large number increased spending on ECD programs. All LGUs took
advantage of the capacity building efforts ­ they recruited day-care workers and enrolled rural health
midwives and Barangay health and nutrition workers in the training programs offered.

The communications activities had mixed results. A new initiative "Bright Child" was developed as a
unifying brand to promote and pursue the integrated delivery of ECCD-programs and services. The
introduction of this package to local governments beyond the pilot areas to achieve national coverage
was a strong and positive output of the component. The communications program also included many
creative elements aimed at creating awareness and sustaining attention. Worth mentioning among these
are: publications, web-pages with success-stories, ECD-Best practice workshops, and exhibits of the
program at the Philippine Legislative Action Committee for Children, radio and television spots and
guest talks on television.

Although the communications component of the nutrition package in component I, also included the
development of materials as well as training on interpersonal counseling for the rural midwife and health
and nutrition workers, the implementation was very weak. It thus contributed to the limited impact the
program had on the nutrition and child physical growth outcomes. As discussed above, the training of
providers' however was satisfactory.

The institutional development of the CWC as an APEX agency was satisfactory. The agency was
instrumental in the development and adoption of a series of laws and recommendations to the
government that aimed at expanding ECD-services, enhancing quality and ensuring sustainability. The
complete list of laws and recommendations adopted during the project is listed in Annex 8. In addition
to central level advocacy and policy work, the agency was successful in creating awareness about early
childhood issues, the potential negative consequences of failing to focus on early childhood development
and in creating demand for ECD services at the local level. A series of workshops were conducted at
LGU-level aimed at formulating the local development plans for children (LDPC) and the local
investment plans for children (LIPC). A large percent of the local development plans of the LGUs
include ECD-interventions and have identified ECD as a development priority.

Based on the individual ratings for these three sub-components, component II is rated satisfactory.

Component III: Research and Development - Satisfactory



                                                 - 12 -

   The pilots, studies and operational research component's aim was to test the project interventions in
   various settings; develop new and innovative approaches to improve delivery and generate continuing
   data and information for improved planning, management and evaluation. In addition, a corollary
   objective of this component was to institutionalize the process of research utilization and information
   through a web-site. The Council for the Welfare of Children (CWC) undertook these activities. An
   impressive number of studies (13 in all) was undertaken to evaluate the project activities and the
   innovative approaches (complete list of studies included in Annex 8 of this ICR). Although the quality
   of the studies is varied, considerable effort was put into undertaking these studies and disseminating the
   results. As such, this component merits a satisfactory rating. The results of these studies were not only
   used for evaluation purposes, but helped guide improvement in ECD interventions (see Table 1 in
   section 10) and thus increased their effectiveness and helped build capacity for evidence-based policy
   making. For instance, a cost -effectiveness analysis showed that cost-savings could be incurred through
   investing in weekly iron supplementation without deworming to effectively prevent mild anemia. This
   finding formed the basis of the DOH policy, which subsequently introduced weekly iron
   supplementation into the regular DOH program, under the DOH Administrative Order No.119 series
   2003.

   It should also be noted that, the Philippines ECD-project was among the first in the World Bank to
   field a rigorous impact study measuring impact of ECD-activities in a program setting which has had
   positive externalities for ECD- programs in the region and worldwide.

   The Monitoring &Evaluation component is rated moderately satisfactory. Although the monitoring
   system of the project was well designed, it focused too much on inputs monitoring and less on output
   monitoring and the implementation of the system was very poor until 18 months before project closing.
   For much of the duration of the project, monitoring data was not available on time and there was little
   analysis or follow up to guide supervision and improve service delivery quality. This sub-component is
   however rated moderately and not fully unsatisfactory because in the last 18 months of the project
   supervision, monitoring did improve and the evaluation part of the M&E system, as discussed above,
   was satisfactory. It has to be recognized, as mentioned earlier, that given this project was the first to
   include a rigorous impact evaluation, much of the attention was focused on the evaluation, which may
   have led to less attention being provided to monitoring of outputs.

On the whole, this component is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
   During preparation, cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses were carried out. The results of these
   studies indicated that the delivery of health, nutrition and early education inputs from this project would
   be highly cost-effective and combined in ways that strengthen the links between child health, education
   and economic returns. Investing in health and education of children increases a country's overall
   standard of living by building human resources that generate higher economic returns, reduce social
   costs and increase efficiency of other investments. For health and nutrition interventions, the net present
   value of wage gains for children benefiting from the project was expected to increase from 9 billion
   pesos to 30 billion pesos. Early childhood development interventions were also to improve school
   attendance and performance and increase children's prospects for higher productivity and future
   income. The economic rate of return calculated during preparation for this project's ECD interventions
   was estimated at a minimum of 15%.

   No overall ERR or net present value calculations were carried out at the end of the project but it can be
   argued that there will be economic gains from the ECD-investments and, despite late start and slow


                                                     - 13 -

   progress, to some extent from the health and nutrition investments.

   More specific cost-effectiveness studies were carried out during the life of the project. One study was
   on the cost-effectiveness of combining deworming and weekly iron-supplementation in the reduction of
   anemia among pre-schoolers.        Anemia among pre-schoolers reduces attention span and education
   attainment and would reduce effectiveness of investments in education. The null hypothesis was that the
   combined strategy of deworming (high worm loads cause and worsen anemia) and iron-supplementation
   would have a higher impact than solely supplementing with iron. The study however showed that the
   combined strategy did not have a higher impact on reducing anemia. The results were consistent with
   results reported elsewhere, as the low prevalence and intensity of soil-transmitted helminthiases,
   particularly hookworm infection, meant that the contribution to anemia among pre-schoolers was
   minimal. Deworming is not an effective intervention in reducing anemia, unless there is moderate to
   severe hookworm infection. Most importantly, however, the cost -effectiveness analysis showed that
   cost-savings could be incurred through investing in weekly iron supplementation without deworming to
   effectively prevent mild anemia. This finding formed the basis of the DOH policy, which subsequently
   introduced weekly iron supplementation into the regular DOH program, under the DOH Administrative
   Order No.119 series 2003.

   In addition, an action research found that the iron-fortified product Pandesal did reduce mild anemia
   levels among children, but did not have additional benefits when fortified with both iron and vitamin A.
   Although the study recommended the use of the least costly iron-fortificant, the study could have been
   improved by using the estimated positive impact of fortification on measures of nutritional status and
   the costs associated with fortification in order to compute benefit-cost ratios for each type of
   fortification. The study did, however, mention apparent secondary outcomes of the trial, such as positive
   changes in school attendance rates.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
   Not estimated.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
   The project had a substantial impact on institutional development. After many years of building
   institutional changes, government officials finally agreed on the current institutional set up (whereby
   policy-making is a CWC responsibility and implementation of ECD a DSWD one). There are also other
   important signs that the program will continue to become more effective and efficient. The policy and
   program environment has been enhanced considerably during project implementation. For example the
   adoptions of "CHILD 21" - the national framework for the Development of Children - and its
   accompanying National Plan of Action for Children 2005-2010 are two important policy developments.
   Another major accomplishment is the effective integration of services for children in Child 21 ­
   integrating health, education, nutrition and psycho-social development in one package with (now) clear
   leadership at high political levels. A number of Executive Orders give direction to National Government
   Agencies to actively support and implement ECD-programs. The capacity of the Council for Welfare of
   Children (CWC) was also strengthened over the life of the project.

   Many gains in institutional development have been made at the local government levels in terms of
   planning and implementation capacity. Advocacy workshops and the continued involvement of three
   Regional Sub-Committees for the Welfare of Children contributed to awareness creation and the
   development of investment plans for ECD-interventions. Regional Sub-Committees for the Welfare of
   Children (RSCWC) and local ECCD Coordinating Committees were instituted at the decentralized
   levels. To date almost all LGUs have developed ECD-investment plans and some have already been



                                                    - 14 -

   adopted by the local councils.

    The Commission on Higher Education has approved the inclusion of the 8-week ECE curriculum in its
    course offerings for Bachelor of Elementary Education major in Preschool Education. Also the parent
    effectiveness program and the micronutrient food-fortification program have been mainstreamed by the
    implementing agencies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
   There were no factors outside the control of government or implementing agency that affected the
   implementation and outcome of this project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Ø Very strong political commitment had a positive effect on project activities. The highest levels of
    government were supportive of the program and project management had easy access to these high
    level officials which helped ensure sustainability and institutional development.
    Ø The government invested in a rigorous evaluation of the ECD program to help inform future
    program design and interventions.
    Ø Duringthelaststageofprojectpreparation,thenewlyelectedgovernmentchangedtheleadagency
    from Department of Health (DOH) to Department Social Welfare and Development (DSWD). This
    decision was in hindsight good, given capacity, commitment and the importance of integration of
    services. However, implementation of this change was inadequate; little attention was given to resultant
    problems in the relationship between the two agencies, despite these being fairly clear right from the
    start.
    Ø Thelackofclarityininstitutionalissues,leadershiprolesandmanagementwasattherootofmany
    of the problems in first half of implementation. Only after the MTR, were these roles clearly defined, a
    new institutional set-up was established and effective implementation of project activities began. Firm
    action by government early on could have avoided this delay.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Ø A very strong advocacy and communications program was successful in convincing almost all
    targeted LGUs (which in Philippines are autonomous government units with the mandate to implement
    social services) to increase their investments in ECD-programs.
    Ø During implementation, the project management unit was transformed from an independent unit to
    an organic unit within DSWD to improve collaboration and coordination between the implementing
    agencies. This ensured long term sustainability of project interventions.
    Ø During the first two years of implementation, the project management unit had little understanding
    of Bank procurement procedures and took time to educate its personnel on these.
    Ø Project monitoring was inadequately managed and there was very little effort to use regular
    monitoring data for program improvement.

5.4 Costs and financing:
   The total cost of this project was US$58.8 million and the credit financed US$19 million. The project
   was financed in parallel by the Asian Development Bank with a credit of US$ 21.7 million. During the
   life of the project there was one re-allocation of US$1.14 million on August 22, 2003. Ninety one
   percent of the credit was disbursed and the latest estimates of expenditures are provided in Annex 2. A
   total of US$1,683,930 was cancelled on April 3, 2006. A PHRD grant for US$ 830,000 was used to
   prepare the project. In addition, 97% of the 21.7 million ADB loan was disbursed.



                                                     - 15 -

   The PAD anticipated an implementation period of five and a half years and the project was completed in
   6 years. The project became effective on September 28, 1998 and was closed, after an 11-month
   extension on November 30, 2005. At the Original Closing date of December 31, 2004, a total of US$
   14,808,454.74 was disbursed. The extension was granted on the grounds of: (a) slowing down of
   activities of the Local Government Units due to the upcoming election; (b) lack of appropriation cover
   to finance the planned activities due to insufficient allocation in the national budget for the increase in
   disbursement under the ECD-project; and, (c) the need for conducting the End-line Indicators Survey
   after all the interventions/inputs were fully implemented.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
   Institutional sustainability is likely. This rating is based on the institutional capacity that was built
   and the strong political support for project interventions to continue beyond the project period. In 2002,
   the government institutionalized the program by legislating the Early Child Care and Development
   (ECCD) Act, which established the governance structures and delivery systems for ECD interventions
   targeted to children between 0 and 6 years of age. The Council of Welfare of Children (CWC) was
   created as the highest policy making body. The DWSD remains the highest level implementing body.
   Although the government indicated it no longer wanted to borrow from the IBRD, it has allocated
   substantial resources to the continuation of the program through a Php2 billion funding from the
   Philippine Amusement and Games Corp. (PAGCOR) or Php400 million every year for the next five
   years.

   Financial sustainability is likely. The setting aside of funds for ECD activities at the local government
   level and the fact that LGU have co-financed in large part the services add to the likelihood of continued
   financial sustainability of project-supported interventions. At the central level, financing continues to
   use off-budget resources making it less sustainable. CWC however, is well placed to provide strong
   advocacy for the program and has already been successful in securing funding for the program.

   Operational sustainability is likely. A large number of LGUs continue to support the ECD-programs
   they have implemented and improved during the project period. The Department of Education has
   adopted the Grade 1 8-week curriculum nationwide. Advocacy and communications are well prepared
   and there is no indication that this would be discontinued after project closing. In fact, the closing of the
   project has boosted the enthusiasm of the implementing agencies to continue the activities and to take on
   more responsibility.

   The ECD project's prospect for sustainability is rated as likely based on the above three assessments of
   institutional, financial and operational sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
   Although discussions had started with the World Bank to prepare a second ECD operation the
   Government of the Philippines did not request another loan. Instead provisions were made to continue
   financing the ECD activities using off-budget national funding from various sources, including, the
   proceeds of the gambling tax.

   Although the likelihood that activities will continue without World Bank support is high, it is uncertain
   whether the much needed improvements in the quality of the services, particularly in the area of
   nutrition, will be achieved. Too little attention has been given to this problem and chronic malnutrition



                                                     - 16 -

   rates in the Philippines is increasing. Chronic malnutrition among young children has life-long negative
   consequences and will reduce any gains made from other ECD-interventions if more is not done to
   prevent and reduce this risk. Continued engagement with the Government of the Philippines on this issue
   is warranted.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The project requested by the Government of the Philippines was in line with the Philippines ECD
    strategy and the World Bank's strategy as laid out in the 1998-CAS document. Sector work conducted
    before the project preparation was instrumental in guiding the national ECD-program design and
    ensured the alignment of GOP and Bank project design features and rationale for the project. The
    collaboration between the two financers, the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank, was
    satisfactory during preparation. The preparation was comprehensive, included teams with the
    appropriate skill mix, took into consideration the recommendations of the sector work. However, while
    the Project Implementation Plan was prepared, established of project management teams, financial
    management arrangements, procurement bidding documents and baseline survey design were not
    finalized delaying effectiveness. The political environment and the weak institutional capacity were
    recognized as problematic and addressed during preparation with additional missions and focused
    missions with specific goals, but were insufficiently recognized as risk during implementation. The
    Bank performance during preparation is rated moderately satisfactory

7.2 Supervision:
   The Bank supervision can be rated as moderately unsatisfactory in the early years of project
   implementation. An untimely death of the Task Team Leader (TTL), led to an interim arrangement in
   task management and this did affect the Bank's ability to respond to the project's needs on a timely
   basis for a short period. Once a regular TTL was assigned and effort was put into on improving the
   Bank's human development portfolio, supervision improved. The Bank supervision in the following
   years can be rated as satisfactory.

   Implementation reviews were, on average, undertaken at least every six months and occasionally more
   frequently. These were organized in close collaboration with the government. The Mid Term Review
   and several supervision missions were conducted jointly with the ADB. The skill mix of the Bank team
   for supervision was appropriate and included staff from DEC's research group given the strong impact
   evaluation component. The teams also kept regular and close contact with the project implementers
   between supervisions. Management attention to the project was satisfactory during the life of the
   project and appropriate attention was given to follow up with government.

   The write ups in PSRs and ISR, as well as in BTO were candid and clear. Given the candor the ratings
   may appear at times to be too positive. However, this may be more a reflection of the limited choices
   the task team has in ratings (either satisfactory or not, no rating for moderately satisfactory) than candor
   in ratings. Given this limitation, the ratings were appropriately reported.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
   Overall Bank performance was moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                     - 17 -

   During preparation, Borrower's performance was moderately satisfactory. The Department of Health,
   mandated with the preparation of the project, did not show sufficient leadership. Leadership was handed
   over to the Department for Welfare and Social Development only during the last stages of preparation.
   The latter decision was taken after a government change and only then was the speed of preparation
   picked up. In all, it took several years to prepare this investment operation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The performance during implementation can be rated as unsatisfactory until late 2000 and satisfactory
    thereafter. At MTR progress was still weak, several activities had not started and coordination among
    the implementing entities was very weak. There were serious capacity problems in financial
    management and procurement and a lack of interest and counterpart funds. Only 21% of the funds
    were disbursed at the mid-term. At MTR, the government recognized these problems and took into
    account the MTR recommendations. It made significant changes to the institutional set-up of the
    management unit, and clarified the roles and responsibilities of the various ministries to improve
    coordination. Since then, counterpart funding was never flagged as a problem.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
   The implementing agency performance was unsatisfactory until late 2000 and satisfactory thereafter.
   The unit was weak to start with and lacked basic understanding of Bank procurement and financial
   management procedures. In hindsight, the fact that the ADB and the World Bank had different
   procedures added to the complexity. After MTR, the unit was placed within the organic administrative
   structure of DSWD and its capacity improved with the training in procurement and financial
   management procedures.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
   Overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   In addition to more well-known lessons learned comparable operations such as the need for local level
   involvement, strategic communications development early in project and the importance of integrating
   services, this operation provides other interesting lessons such as:

        Ø        Focusing on nutrition within an ECD program. The project had a fairly large nutrition
        component and three of its key performance indicators were dependent on effective implementation
        of that component. The lead implementing agency DSWD however did not have improving
        nutrition in its own mandate. Was addressing nutrition through an ECD-project a good decision on
        hindsight?

            o The answer is probably yes for selected interventions. While little impact was achieved on
            chronic nutrition indicators, acute malnutrition did improve and the micronutrient
            supplementation program and the food-fortification program performed well and showed
            positive results, except for iron-deficiency anemia.

            o Nutrition programs that focus on behavior change and child growth promotion are best
            placed at the community-level. The ECD-program was implemented at the local level and
            strengthened local health provider's knowledge on nutrition contributing to creating awareness
            and addressing the problem more effectively. To achieve effective reductions in chronic
            malnutrition require improving counseling for behavior change. With stronger coordination,
            this too could have been achieved.

        Ø        Value added of a strong evaluation of the ECD program in addition to regular


                                                     - 18 -

monitoring.    The strength of the project was the rigorous impact-evaluation conducted in a
program setting as well as the various studies, pilots and operational research conducted under the
project. The results of these studies helped guide improvement in ECD interventions, increased
their effectiveness and helped build capacity for evidence-based policy making.

Ø        Use of baseline surveys: The project had a baseline survey provide the baseline indicators
for measuring project impact (through the longitudinal data study) as well as monitors changes in
access to services with increased availability comparing baseline and endline survey results.

Ø        Choice of lead agency in a multi-sectoral operation. Here the responsibility for the
overall ECD program was with DSWD, despite the fact that about 80% of project activities fell
under the implementation responsibility of DOH. This provides the following lessons:

    o Need for strong collaboration between implementing agencies is key for the success of a
    cross-sectoral program. This decision to have DSWD as lead agency was right on hindsight
    but the execution of the decision and the resultant problems in collaboration could have been
    dealt with more effectively.

    o In an institutional set-up requiring a high level of attention to coordination, strong capacity
    and leadership is crucial.

    o An innovative program in an environment where there is no designated natural home (ECD
    in this case) can be successful, but building institutions and commitment takes time and
    sustained commitment.

Ø        Scope of ECD services: LGUs at the time of preparation of the ECD-project lacked
necessary institutional capacity and commitment. The project, therefore, aimed at improving the
quality of existing programs and interventions and only adding new services in areas already
implementing ECD services.

Ø        Use of matching grants to encourage local government financing of ECD services was
effective and provides a good example and the following lessons for other operations and countries:


    o Strong community participation and support (financial and political) from local leaders
    determines success of any community-based program.

    o Strong ownership built with advocacy around the matching grants component helped
    strengthen local commitment.

    o Ceilings for matching grants need to be set up-front in order to avoid unsustainable
    financial needs or expectations.

Ø        The combination of legislation and IEC was successful. The adoption of the Salt-I Law
together with the strong IEC-campaign made an importance difference in producer compliance of
salt-iodization and increased awareness and consumption at the household level.

Ø        Embedding of the project management office within the organic structure of the lead
implementing agency ensured institutionalization of project interventions and obliterated the need
for transition arrangements to regular operations as is often required for investment projects.

Ø        Value-added of joint but parallel financed operations with other development agencies:
As a joint operation between ADB and the World Bank, the collaboration was effective and had
value during preparation. The sector-work and technical discussions succeeded in convincing
government of the need for and economic value of ECD services. However, during implementation



                                            - 19 -

        there was little value added.       Both agencies used different procurement guidelines, financial
        management and reporting mechanisms. The activities and regions were clearly divided and there
        was little effective collaboration. The financing arrangement added complexity and more work for
        project management. Harmonization of processes could have simplified project implementation.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    As a pilot project of the government from September 1998 to November 2005, the Early Childhood
    Development Project provided integrated services in health, nutrition, psychosocial intervention and
    early education for disadvantaged children from birth to six years old in Regions VI, VII and XII.
    About three (3) million children benefited from the service delivery packages of the Project since it
    started.

    The project has successfully put in place human and physical resources that enabled 132 local
    government units to effectively and efficiently implement ECD programs and services at the community
    level. A total of 103,525 parents and caregivers and 9,355 service providers have been trained on
    parent effectiveness service, 8,658 service providers on integrated early childhood services and
    programs, 6,850 health workers on Integrated Management of Child Illnesses (IMCI), 4,032 health
    workers on family and community IMCI and 4,468 health workers on the Expanded Program on
    Immunization. Infrastructure-wise, 498 new barangay health stations (BHS) were constructed with
    additional 498 BHS upgraded and repaired. In addition, 933 new day care centers (DCC) were
    constructed and 974 DCC repaired and upgraded as well. Moreover, an ECD Resource Center has
    been set up in each of the 132 municipalities covered by the Project.

    The Project yielded valuable lessons and insights from various studies and surveys that can now be
    used to improve ECD service delivery. A system for assessing a child's development status from 0
    month to 5 years and 11 months is now in place. It covers the seven domains: gross motor, fine motor,
    self-help, receptive language, expressive language, cognitive and socio-emotional. Likewise, measures
    to determine the school readiness of 6 years old children entering primary education have been
    operative beginning school year 2005-2006. Local development and investment plans for children are
    making headway in most of the local government units. At project end,13 provincial and 132 municipal
    LGUs in the three project regions have these plans in place.

    To sustain and institutionalize the gains of the ECD Project and thereby ensuring the achievement of
    long-term impacts on the Filipino child, the Early Childhood Care and Development Law (Republic
    Act 8980) is now being implemented in all the 17 regions covering 73 (out of 79) provinces to date.
    President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo had also signed Executive Order No. 286 series of 2004 calling for
    a multi-sectoral and inter-agency action in support to the Bright Child Program, now serving as a
    unifying symbol of the holistic programs for children and Executive Order No. 349 series of 2005
    incorporating pre-school in the education ladder as bridging program for five year olds thus, strengthen
    the early child education program of the Department of Education.

    Evaluation of Bank's Performance. The mid-term review mission conducted last 2001, revealed that
    project accomplishments and disbursement during the first eighteen months was very minimal. That
    much of the shortfall in performance is attributable to the slow start-up of project activities. And one
    of the reasons is that PMO staff as well as the managers in DSWD lacked experience in
    implementation of foreign assisted projects, and did not get the management and technical support
    needed to facilitate project start-up from the funding agencies (ADB and World Bank). To compensate



                                                     - 20 -

    for the lost time, more intensive inputs from the funding agencies started to take place in year 2000.
    These include conduct of meetings, consultation dialogues and telephone calls which resulted to a
    speedy resolution of issues/problems affecting project implementation.

    The project management as well as the implementing agencies had appreciated the strategy of the
    World Bank of fielding a team of experts during supervision missions. This strategy facilitated
    resolution of issues/problems on each of every technical and or operational aspects of the project that in
    turn resulted to an accelerated flow of activities to the intended beneficiaries.

    The procurement guidelines of both World Bank and ADB are easy to understand and to implement. It
    also promotes economy, transparency and efficiency particularly in large-scale procurement activities.
    However, such guidelines or use of Request for Quotations (RFQ) should be flexible enough to
    accommodate the need in a relatively small-scale procurement, i.e. tomatoes, vegetables, meat and
    other perishable goods and small items for food supplementation. Training and provision of technical
    assistance by the banks' representatives to the project management teams prior to the project
    implementation be conducted. This will clear the gray areas in the part of the project management
    teams in adhering to the banks guidelines.

    The same with the procurement guidelines, the disbursement guidelines of both banks are easy to
    understand and to implement. Training of the project management teams on it prior to implementation
    should also be conducted for familiarization and appreciation. The imposition of the World Bank of a
    strict prohibition on the withdrawal of any advances out of special account, contributed to fund
    shortages thus resulted to the further delay in the implementation.      The low bank financing by ADB
    on training and materials, which is 32% and 22% respectively, had tremendously contributed to the
    delay of project implementation. The implementing agencies as well as the LGUs have to look or wait
    for the 68% and 78% first before conducting trainings and or procuring materials that are vital in the
    attainment of the project objectives.      Thus the effect on the overall project objectives of bank
    financing/cost sharing by category should have been taken into consideration.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Asian Development Bank:
    The assessments in this ICR are in line with the Asian Development Bank's own assessments, based on
    our supervision of the ADB-financed portion of the Early Childhood Development Project in Regions
    VI and XII, and our participation in joint review missions with the World Bank over the life of the
    project.

    The overall rating of the achievement of the project's development objective as satisfactory is a direct
    result marked improvements in implementation later on despite delay in project start-up and problems
    encountered in the earlier years. ADB notes in particular the problems with the M&E component,
    which focused too heavily on inputs and did not deliver timely monitoring data that could have resulted
    in program adjustments and improvements to service delivery.

    As the ICR notes, however, there were marked improvements in overall project implementation later
    on. For this reason ADB also agrees with the assessment that the institutional development impact was
    substantial, and that sustainability is likely. Particularly commendable is the strong advocacy and
    communications program that encouraged most of the project LGUs to continue investments in ECD
    programs.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 21 -

10. Additional Information

       Table 1.      ECD Project-Supported Researches Completed, 1999-2004

       Subcomponent/Research Title                          Use/Potential Use

       a.  Pilot-testing of Project Interventions (new PEM  Used for formulating policies and
           program, the upgraded PES program, and the       guidelines for full project implementation
           new, improved ECD service delivery package)

       b.  Support to Program Innovation and Policy
           Development

           1) Baseline study on nutritional status,         Evaluation of project benefits and impact
               psychosocial development and care of 0-6
               year-old children in ECD provinces           Used to develop the ECCD checklist that
                                                            was eventually adopted

                                                            Could be used for understanding the
                                                            relationship among dimensions covered

           2) Correlation analysis of children's            Policy formulation and program/project
               nutritional status, dietary intake and       development for ECD packages or for
               psychosocial development, and pregnant       single-sector interventions
               and lactating mother's dietary intake in
               ECD and non-ECD Program areas

           3) School-readiness of 5½ to 6½ year-old         Used as basis for developing the School
               children in various socio-economic           Readiness Assessment Tool which has
               environments                                 been adopted in the public school system

                                                            Tool could help teacher in appropriate
                                                            interventions to improve learning ability
                                                            of grade school entrants.

                                                            Could also be used for formulating
                                                            appropriate policies and programs for
                                                            preschool and Grade 1 education

           4) Methods of early detection and                Policy formulation and program/project
               intervention of children with special needs  development for ECD packages

           5) Perception and practice on parenting roles    Policy formulation and program/project
               of Filipino fathers and mothers              development for ECD PES packages

           6) Cost-effectiveness of deworming and           Used for formulating policies and
               weekly iron supplementation in the           programs on anemia prevention and
               reduction of anemia among preschoolers:      control such as DOH Administrative
               A field test                                 Order 119 series 2003.

           7) The efficacy of pan de sal baked from
               wheat flour fortified with iron and vitamin  Provides evidence for wisdom behind
               A in improving the iron status of anemic     mandatory fortification of wheat flour
               elementary school children                   with iron and vitamin A; useful in
                                                            advocating for compliance to mandatory
           8) The effects of vitamin A-fortified pan de     fortification; and in deciding to maintain
               sal on the iron and anthropometric status of the mandatory fortification provided for
               anemic school children                       by law




                                                     - 22 -

             9) The effects of iron-fortified pan de sal and   Used for formulating policies and
                  weekly iron tablet supplementation on        programs to prevent and control PEM and
                  hemoglobin concentration and                 iron-deficiency anemia
                  anthropometric status of anemic school
                  children

             10) Iron status of anemic school children in      Used for formulating policies and
                  Compostela, Cebu before and after 7          programs to prevent and control PEM and
                  months of weekly iron supplementation        iron-deficiency anemia

             11) The effects of iodized salt on the quality of Policy formulation, particularly on the
                  selected processed food                      scope of mandatory fortification

             12) Household food consumption survey             Policy formulation and program/project
                                                               development along agriculture and
                                                               nutrition

             13) Evaluation of the continuum and best          Policy formulation and program/project
                  practices of project educational activities: development of ECD packages
                  case studies of selected sites

             14) Cost-effectiveness study of ECD               Policy formulation and program/project
                  interventions and services of child          development of ECD packages
                  development worker (CDW), rural health
                  midwife (RHM), day care worker (DCW),
                  day care mother (DCM) and the early
                  childhood enrichment packages

             15) Pre-testing of the Mother and Child Book      Used as basis for refining and finalizing
                                                               the MCB

         c.  Benefits monitoring and evaluation

             1) Baseline indicators survey                     Used to validate project objectives and

             2) Endline indicators survey                      targets

             3) Indigenous People Survey                       Will establish the benefits obtained from
                                                               the Project, which can be useful for
                                                               advocating continued investments in the
                                                               interventions and in the effort of
                                                               integrated delivery of services and to
                                                               vulnerable groups

                                                               Policy formulation and program/project
                                                               design for ECD packages



Endnote

1Public and privately run ECDs in Philippines (Center and home-based) date back over 16 years. Starting
in 1978 with a presidential decree (No. 1567 "The Barangay Day Care Centre Law") mandating at least
one day care center in every Barangay. In 1987, an amendment (Republic Act No. 6972, "The Barangay
Level Total Development and Protection of Children Act) was adopted.




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduction by 30% of the under-five mortality 29.12                                 No project end-line data available, DHS 2003
rate from the baseline value (estimated at                                         - 40/1,000 at the national level
over 35 per thousand in PAD)
Reduction by 40% in the proportion of         4.97                                 2.2%
children under six with Grade 2 or 3 wasting
from the baseline value (estimated at around
30% in PAD).
 Reduction by 30% in the proportion of        28%                                  15.9%
children under six with anemia from the
baseline value (estimated at around 50%
among infants in PAD).
 Increase to 90% in proportion of children    90%                                  91.6%
aged 12-18 months fully immunized from the
baseline value (estimated at under 85% in
PAD).
 Improvement in a combined index of child                                          Motor language development 0.5 -1.8 S.D.
development (motor and cognitive skills)                                           higher in children exposed to the program.
among children under six (indicator to be
developed in baseline study).
Proportion of children with below average     4.5                                  Two year program exposure: 8.5*
gross motor skills                                                                 One Year program exposure: 4.6*
                                              1.0
Proportion of children with below average                                          Two year program exposure:-0.4
cognitive skills                                                                   One year program exposure:1.0
6. Increase in completion rate for Grade 1 to 70%                                  89%
70% of Grade 1 entrants from the baseline
value (currently estimated at 58%).

*Significant at p<0.05
Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Establishment of functioning PEM           50% of muncipalities                 86.4 (growth monitoring)
programs in 50% of municipalities/cities by                                          59.1 (infant feeding)
2003.
 Increase to 75% in proportion of total       75% of muncipalities                 75%
children aged three to five in targeted
municipalities attending day-care centers
(estimated at under 60% in PAD).
9. Establishment of active CDWs in 50% of 50% of muncipalities                     63%
municipalities/cities by 2003.
0. Implementation of ECD sub-projects in      90% of targeted municipalities       90%
90% of targeted municipalities by 2003

1End of project




                                                                - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                        US$ million  US$ million
1. ECD Service Delivery
    a. Program Support for Provincial LGUs                  9.50         13.77            145
    b. Financing Facility for Muncipality/City/LGU ECD     25.40         16.75             66
Sub-Projects
2. Support to LGU Sub-Projects
    a. Communications Support                               1.30           0.66            51
    b. Planning, Targeting & MIS Support                    3.70           1.47            40
    c. Training Support                                     3.50           3.69           105
    d. Institutional Development                            3.80           9.10           239
3. Research and Development
   a. Pilot Testing of Project Interventions                0.20           0.22           110
   b. Program Innovation and Policy Development             1.90           0.97            51
   c. Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation                     1.50           0.80            53
Taxes and Duties                                            1.70           2.12           125

Total Baseline Cost                                        52.50         49.55
 Price Contingencies                                        6.30
                          Total Project Costs              58.80         49.55
                    Total Financing Required               58.80         49.55




                                                 - 25 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               1.10               0.30             1.60              3.00
                                       (0.00)             (1.10)             (0.30)           (0.00)             (1.40)
2. Goods                                4.20               2.20               2.00             11.90             20.30
                                       (4.20)             (2.10)             (1.90)           (0.00)             (8.20)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               8.30             26.10             34.40
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (8.30)           (0.00)             (8.30)
4. IEC                                  0.00               0.60               0.50             0.00              1.10
                                       (0.00)             (0.60)             (0.50)           (0.00)             (1.10)
    Total                               4.20               3.90              11.10             39.60             58.80
                                       (4.20)             (3.80)            (11.00)           (0.00)            (19.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.22              0.93             2.85              4.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.22)            (0.93)            (0.00)           (1.15)
2. Goods                                2.63               5.15              0.38             17.06            25.22
                                       (2.63)             (5.15)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (8.16)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              7.53             11.67            19.20
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.53)            (0.00)           (7.53)
4. IEC                                  0.00               0.16              0.33             0.64              1.13
                                       (0.00)             (0.16)            (0.33)            (0.00)           (0.49)
    Total                               2.63               5.53              9.17             32.22            49.55
                                       (2.63)             (5.53)            (9.17)            (0.00)           (17.33)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 26 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. ECD Service Delivery
  a. Program support for      4.60      0.00        4.90     5.74       2.61       5.41  124.8   0.0    110.4
provincial LGUs
  b. Financing Facility for   5.40      11.30       8.70     4.62       5.71       6.41  85.6    50.5    73.7
Municipal/City/LGU ECD
Sub-Projects
2. Support to LGU
Sub-Projects
 a. Communications            1.30      0.00                 0.63       0.03       0.00  48.5    0.0
Support
 b. Planning, Targeting &     3.70      0.00                 1.29       0.17       0.00  34.9    0.0
MIS Support
c. Training Support           0.40      3.10                 3.47       0.21       0.00  867.5   6.8
d. Institutional              3.80      0.00        3.80     0.63       1.96       6.52  16.6    0.0    171.6
Development
3. Research and
Development
  a. Pilot Testing of Project 0.20      0.00                 0.17       0.04       0.00  85.0    0.0
Interventions
 b. Program Innovation        1.90                  1.90     0.00       0.39       0.58  0.0             30.5
and Policy Development
c. Benefit Monitoring and     1.50                           0.76       0.76       0.04  50.7
Evaluation
Taxes and duties + price      8.00      2.90        2.40                0.00       0.00  0.0     0.0     0.0
contingencies
Total Project Cost            19.00     18.10      21.70    17.31      11.60      21.04  91.1    64.1    97.0




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 During preparation, cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses were carried out. The results of these
 studies indicated that the delivery of health, nutrition and early education inputs from this project would
 be highly cost-effective and combined in ways that strengthen the links between child health, education
 and economic returns. Investing in health and education of children increases a country's overall
 standard of living by building human resources that generate higher economic returns, reduce social
 costs and increase efficiency of other investments. For health and nutrition interventions, the net present
 value of wage gains for children benefiting from the project was expected to increase from 9 billion
 pesos to 30 billion pesos. Early childhood development interventions were also to improve school
 attendance and performance and increase children's prospects for higher productivity and future
 income. The economic rate of return calculated during preparation for this project's ECD interventions
 was estimated at a minimum of 15%.

 No overall ERR or net present value calculations were carried out at the end of the project but it can be
 argued that there will be economic gains from the ECD-investments and, despite late start and slow
 progress, to some extent from the health and nutrition investments.

 More specific cost-effectiveness studies were carried out during the life of the project. One study was
 on the cost-effectiveness of combining deworming and weekly iron-supplementation in the reduction of
 anemia among pre-schoolers.       Anemia among pre-schoolers reduces attention span and education
 attainment and would reduce effectiveness of investments in education. The null hypothesis was that the
 combined strategy of deworming (high worm loads cause and worsen anemia) and iron-supplementation
 would have a higher impact than solely supplementing with iron. The study however showed that the
 combined strategy did not have a higher impact on reducing anemia. The results were consistent with
 results reported elsewhere, as the low prevalence and intensity of soil-transmitted helminthiases,
 particularly hookworm infection, meant that the contribution to anemia among pre-schoolers was
 minimal. Deworming is not an effective intervention in reducing anemia, unless there is moderate to
 severe hookworm infection. Most importantly, however, the cost -effectiveness analysis showed that
 cost-savings could be incurred through investing in weekly iron supplementation without deworming to
 effectively prevent mild anemia. This finding formed the basis of the DOH policy, which subsequently
 introduced weekly iron supplementation into the regular DOH program, under the DOH Administrative
 Order No.119 series 2003.

 In addition, an action research found that the iron-fortified product Pandesal did reduce mild anemia
 levels among children, but did not have additional benefits when fortified with both iron and vitamin A.
 Although the study recommended the use of the least costly iron-fortificant, the study could have been
 improved by using the estimated positive impact of fortification on measures of nutritional status and
 the costs associated with fortification in order to compute benefit-cost ratios for each type of
 fortification. The study did, however, mention apparent secondary outcomes of the trial, such as positive
 changes in school attendance rates.




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/05/1993                1    TASK MANAGER (1)
              07/05/1993                1    TASK MANAGER (1)
              01/15/1994                4    MISSION LEALDER AND
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PUBLID HEALTH AND
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PRE-SCHOOL EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             PARTICIPATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              03/07/1994                5    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH CONSULTANT (1);
                                             NUTRITION CONSULTANT
                                             (1); EDUCATION
                                             CONSULLTANT (1);
                                             COMMUNITY AND NGO
                                             PARTICIPATION
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              09/21/1994                1    MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/22/1994                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT AND
                                             NUTRITION CONSULTANT
                                             (1); ARCHITECT
              06/12/1995                4    CONSULTANT (1)
                                             TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULSTANT
                                             MANAGEMENT AND
                                             NUTRITION (1);
              12/05/1995                2    CONSULTANT ARCHITECT
                                             (1)
              02/14/1996                4    MANAGEMEN SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL FUND
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); COMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIALITST (1); TRAINING
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/13/1996                9    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             PARTICIPATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); COSTING SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT NUTRITION



                                              - 29 -

                AND INSTITUTIONAL
                DEVELOPMENT (1);
                TRAINING CONSULTANT (1);
                IEC CONSULTANT (1);
                FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                PUBLIC HEALTH
                CONSULTANT (1); EARLY
                EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                (1)
07/12/1996    8 TASK MANAGER (1);
                MANAGEMENT
                CONSULTANT (1);
                CONSULTANT ARCHITECT
                (1); IEC CONSULTANT (1);
                TRAINING CONSULTANT (1);
                NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                FINANCIAL ANALYST
                CONSULTANT (1);
                ECONOMIST (1)
08/08/1996    3 TASK MANAGER (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION
                SPECIALIST (1);
                CONTRACTOR
                PREPARATION OF ECD
                PROJECT PROPOSAL (1)
11/25/1996    3 TASK MANAGER (1);
                CONSULTANT OVERALL
                DESIGN OF COMPUTER
                PACKAGE (1); CONTRACTOR
                PREPARATION OF ECD
                PROJECT PROPOSAL (1)
01/27/1997    9 TASK MANAGER (1);
                ECONOMIST (1); NUTRITION
                SPECIALIST (1); EARLY
                EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                UNICEF (1); SOCIAL
                MOBILISATION SPECIALIST,
                UNICEF (1); MANAGEMENT
                CONSULTANT (1); PUBLIC
                HEALTH CONSULTANT (1);
                TRAINING CONSULTANT (1);
                IEC CONSULTANT (1)
04/21/1997    7 TASK MANAGER (1);
                NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                IMPLEMENTATION
                SPECIALIST (1);
                MANAGEMENT
                CONSULTANT (1);
                PLANNING AND
                MANAGEMENT
                CONSULTANT (1);
                CONSULTANTS (2)
05/21/1997    1 TASK MANAGER (1)



                - 30 -

           07/15/1997    8 TASK MANAGER (1);
                           NGO/COMMUNITY
                           PARTICIPATION SPECIALIST
                           (1); M&E SPECIALIST (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION
                           SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                           CONSULTANT (1);
                           MANAGEMENT
                           CONSULTANT (1); TRAINING
                           CONSULTANT (1); IEC
                           CONSULTANT (1)
           09/09/1997    3 TASK MANAGER (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION
                           SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                           CONSULTANT (1)

Appraisal/Negotiation
           07/15/1997    7 TASK MANAGER (1);
                           NGO/COMMUNITY
                           PARTICIPATION
                           SPECIALIST (1); M& E
                           SPECIALIST (1);
                           FINANCIAL
                           CONSULTANT (1);
                           MANAGEMENT
                           CONSULTANT (1);
                           TRAINING CONSULTANT
                           (1); IEC CONSULTANT (1)

           01/26/1998    5 TASK MANAGER (1); LEGAL
                           COUNSEL (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION
                           SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                           CONSULTANT (1); IEC AND
                           MANAGEMENT
                           CONSULTANT (1)

Supervision

           11/27/1998    3 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                           MANAGEMENT
                           CONSULTANT (1)
           05/31/1999    3 TASK MANAGER (1);            S
                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                           PLANNING & MANAGEMENT
                           (1)
           05/31/1999    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       U     S
                           NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                           (1)
           04/30/2000    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       U     S
                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);



                           - 31 -

                OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                IMCI SPECIALIST (1)
04/30/2000    8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); FIN MGT SPECIALIST (1);
                ADB TASK MANAGER (1);
                PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                IMCH CONSULTANT (1)
04/06/2001    6 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                FM CONSULTANT (1);
                SENIOR PROJECT SPECIAL
                (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
05/29/2002    8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FIN MGT SPECIALIST (1);
                NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                PROGRAM OFFICER (2);
                PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
11/28/2002    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                (1)
05/27/2003    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                HUMAN DEV'T SPECIALIST
                (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                (1); FM SPECIALIST (1)
12/03/2003    4 TEAM LEADER (1); HD            S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCURMENT OFFICER (1);
                FM SPECIALIST (1)
05/05/2004    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); SR. FM SPECIALIST (1);
                COMMUNICATIONS (1)
07/21/2004    6 SR. ECONOMIST AND TASK         S    S
                TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD HD
                SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                SR. FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); COMMUNICATIONS



                - 32 -

                                                        SPECIALIST (1)
                  02/07/2005                        5   SR. ECONOMIST AND TASK             S    S
                                                        TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD
                                                        ECONOMIST (1);
                                                        PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                        (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                                        SR. FINANCIAL
                                                        MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                                        (1)
                  11/08/2005                        5   SR. ECONOMIST AND TASK             S    S
                                                        TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                                        NUTRITIONIST (1);
                                                        COMMUNICATIONS
                                                        SPECIALIST (1);
                                                        PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                        (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                                        MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                                        (1)

 ICR
                  Conducted during
                  last supervision
                  mission



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         N.A.                     1,564,800*
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                        N.A.                      543,800**
  ICR
  Total                                              N.A.                      2,108,600
* total cost of project preparation.
** Supervision costs including ICR preparation.




                                                         - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous Peoples
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  Aide Memoires, Back-to Office Reports, Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports
  1995-2005;

  Project Appraisal Document 17176-PH (1998)

  Project Operations Manuals and Monitoring reports

  Improving Early Childhood Development; An Integrated Program for the Philippines (1995) Heaver
  R. A. and J. M. Hunt Sector Report on ECD, Direction in Development World Bank

  Early Childhood Development through Integrated Programs: Evidence from the Philippines
  Longitudinal Impact-study (2006) by Graeme Armecin, Jere Behrman, Paulita Duazo, Sharon
  Ghuman, Socorro Gultiano, Elizabeth King and Nanette Lee (publication forthcoming)

  A Study of the Effects of Early Childhood Interventions on Children's Physiological, Cognitive and
  Social Development; Results of the Longitudinal Evaluation Study (2005) Office of Population
  Studies, University of San Carlos, Cebu City, the Philippines

  The Medium Term Philippine Plan of Action for Nutrition 2005-2010 ­ DRAFT

  An Unfinished Agenda ­ Nutrition in the Philippines Mimeo by Rekha Menon (2005)

  Effects of Iodized Salt on the Quality of Selected Processed Food Products (2005) Food and Nutrition
  Research Institute, Department of Science and Technology Philippines

  Correlation Analysis of Children's Nutritional Status, Dietary Intake and Psychosocial Development
  and Pregnant and Lactating Mothers Dietary Intake in ECD and Non-ECD program areas (2003)
  Food and Nutrition Research Institute, Department of Science and Technology, the Philippines

  Cost-effectiveness of Deworming and Weekly Iron-supplementation in the Reduction of Anemia
  among Pre-schoolers: a Field Test (2003) Solon F. S., l. Fajutrao, J.A. Solon, J.N. Sarol, L.
  Wambangco and L. Fermin Nutrition Center of the Philippines

  The Endline Indicators Survey "Effects of Early Childhood Interventions on Children's Physiological,
  Cognitive, and Social Development" Draft Final Report (April 2006) by Prudenciano Gordoncillo,
  Corazon Barba, Reza De Jesus, Marison Dy, Alelie Elizabeth Gana, Normahitta Gordoncillo,
  Merlyne Paunlagui, Emerito Solivas, Lilia Soliven, Ma. Theresa Talavera

  Project Completion Report.




                                                 - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Studies, Policies and Laws implemented under the Project


     Studies

      1.   Baseline survey and Data Generation on Nutritional Status, Psychosocial Development and
           Care of 0-6 Year Old Children in ECD Provinces - OPS
      2.   Cost Effectiveness of Deworming and Weekly Iron Supplementation in the Reduction of
           Anemia among Preschoolers: A Field Test - NCP
      3.   School readiness of 5 1/2 and 6 1/2 Children in Various Socio-Economic Environments -
           Save the Children
      4.   The Efficacy of Pandesal Baked from Wheat Flour Fortified with Iron and Vitamin A in
           Improving the Iron status of Anemic Elementary School Children - NCP
      5.   Correlation Analysis of Children's Nutritional Status, Dietary Intake and Psychosocial
           Development and Pregnant and Lactating Mother's Dietary intake in the ECD and Non-ECD
           Areas - FNRI
      6.   Effects of Iodized Salt on the Quality of selected Processed Food Products - FNRI
      7.   Food Consumption Survey
      8.   Baseline Indicators' Survey
      9.   Baseline Survey of Indigenous Peoples' Access to and Utilization of ECD Services in Region
           VI, VII and XII
      10. Perception and Practice on Parenting Roles of Filipino Mothers and Fathers
      11. Cost Effectiveness of ECD Interventions/Services of CDW, RHM, DCW, DCM and the
           Early Childhood Enrichment Packages
      12. Evaluation of the Continuum and Best Practices of Project Educational Activities
      13. Methods of Early Identification of Children with Special Needs
      14. The Endline Indicators Survey "Effects of Early Childhood Interventions on Children's
           Physiological, Cognitive, and Social Development" Draft Final Report (April 2006) by
           Prudenciano Gordoncillo, Corazon Barba, Reza De Jesus, Marison Dy, Alelie Elizabeth
           Gana, Normahitta Gordoncillo, Merlyne Paunlagui, Emerito Solivas, Lilia Soliven, Ma.
           Theresa Talavera

     Policies, executive and administrative orders and laws

      1.   Child 21, The National Framework for Plan Development for Children and its accompanying
           Plan of Action, the National Plan of Action for Children 2005-2010 that provide the impetus
           in addressing the holistic and diverse needs of Filipino children from birth to early childhood
           and throughout their life cycle.
      2.   Executive Order #286 Directing National Government Agencies and other concerned agencies
           to actively support and implement programs on the "Bright Child"
      3.   Executive Order #349 incorporating the pre-school in the education ladder to encourage early
           childhood development program of the Department of Education
      4.   DOH Administrative Order No.119 series 2003 on Weekly Iron Supplementation
      5.   Department of Education adoption of the School Readiness Tool
      6.   Adoption of the Revised ECCD Checklist as a developmental assessment tool for 0-6 year old
           children through the Council for the Welfare of Children (CWC) Board Resolution No.5
           series of 2004.
      7.   Revised Guidelines on Food Supplementation developed by the Inter-Agency Technical



                                                  - 37 -

   Working Group
8. Development of a Resource Book on Establishing and Localizing the ECCD System building
   on the experiences and lessons gained from the implementation of the Project.




                                        - 38 -

- 39 -

