Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8125
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1954-PAN)
OCTOBER 17, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



mOmlCIAUSONLY
TM WORtD SANK
W&I"ton. OC. 20433
U.S.A.
October 17. 1989
MHfORhNDUM TO TIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTS   Project Completion Report on. Panm
Energy Planning and Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
(Loan 1954-PAN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Panama - Energy Planning and Petroleum Exploration
Project (Loan 1954-PAN)' prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbaan
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
/.
Attachment
Thb docume ha a rharksd di su  o b  W _m  be baud by iu a ou in the putfmaae
of dlUir ftW da.L. Is coeneeiu my no toWM be diabed wthlout Wor l k lsh aIte_ .



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COI4LETION REPORT
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
(LOAN 1954-PAN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
Preface .     ...................................................i
Basic Data Sheet          .............................                         ii
Highlights                      ..             .          ..........iii
I.  INTRODUCTION   ..
II.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION
A.  Project Origin, Appraisal and Negotiations                         2
B. Project Objectives             ..                                   2
C. Project Description             ..                                  2
III.      PROJECT EXECUTION
A. General.                                                            4
B. Project mplementation             .          .                      5
IV.       COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMTS.. .                                     7
V.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORHANCE    ..
VI. CONCLUSIONS   ..
Attachments.......................................
I.   Borrower's Comments..
Maps
IBRD 15487R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autho-zation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
(LOAN 1954-PAN)
PREFACE
1.       The following is a Project Completion Report on the Panama Energy
Planning and Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project for which Loan
1954-PAN, in the amount of US$6.5 million, was approved by the Board of
Directors on March 17, 1981. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1984.
Only the energy planning component of the project was carried out under the
loan. As a result, loan funds in the amount of US$5,911,337.95 were
cancelled in 1985.
2.       This Completion Report was prepared by the Bank's Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office and is based on information obtained from
LAC Information Center, the Bank's President and Supervision Reports for
Loan 1954-PAN, a report prepared by Panama's National Energy Commission
(CONADE) and information gathered by a mission that visited Panama in May.
1987.
3.       Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PCR were
sent to the Government and the Executing Agency for comments. The
Instituto de Recursos Hidr4ulicos y Electrificaci6n sent its comments,
which were incorporated in the report and reproduced as Attachment 1 to the
PCR.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAM
ENERGY PLAMINO AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
(LOAN 1954-PAN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal      Actual or        Actual as X of
It.                       Expectation   Current Estimate  Appralial Estimate
Total Project Costs (US$ millon)       8.0            1.0               18.6
Loan Amount (US$ millon)               6.5           0.6                 9.0
Cofinencing-Total (USS mlilion)         n .            n. 
Comletion Dote                          6/84          6/84 */
Econoemic Rate of Return                n.e.           n.e.
Institutional Prformanc                  -            Falr
CJULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISSURSEMENTS
FY61     FY02      FY68    FY64    FY0S
Appraisal Etimate (US mlillon)       0.4       8.0      6.0      6.5      -
Actual (l1S$ million)                -         -        0.8      0.5      0.6
Actual as X of Appraisal (M)         0.0       0.0      5.0      7.7      -
Date of Flnal Dlsbursement:         12/08/6S
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan      Revisiono   Actual
Flrst Mention In Files                 -            -       12/18/79
Negotiations                        1/00/61         -       01/26-80/01
Board Approval                      8/00/61         -       08/17/81
Signing (Credit Agreemnt Date)      4/00/81         -       04/28/81
Effecti en                          6/28/1                  07/21/61
Closing Date                       12/81/84         -       12/81/84



- ill -
STAFF IWNUTS
(staff weeks)
FY80  FY81  FY62  FY68  FY84   FY65  FY6U  FY67  FY88            Total
Identitication/          12.6   6.6      -      -      -      -      -      -       -       19.1
Preparation
Appraisel                  -    40.2     -      -      -      -      -       -      -       40.2
Negotiations               -    0.4      -      -      -      -       -      -      -        0.4
Supervision                -     1.5  22.2  15.9  10.7   4.0    .4   8.9    .0              64.2
Subtotal:              12.5  54.7  22.2  15.9  10.7    4.0    .4   8.9    .6    129.9
MISSION DATA
Date      No. of    Specializations        Performance             Types of
(so./yr.)   Persons    Represented              Rating      Trend    Problem
Identification/Preparation      05/80        8      Geologist/F.Analyst/       n.n.         n.o.     n.o.
Engineer
Appraisal                       09/80        8      Ceologlet/F.Anolyst/        n.n.        n.n.     n.o.
Engineer
Post-Appraisal                  02/81        8      Geologist/F.Analyst/        n.e.        n.a.     n.e.
Engineer
Supervision    I                06/61        1      Geologist                   8            2
Supervision   II                10/61        1      Oeologlst                   n.n.        n.o.
Supervision  III                12/81        2      F.Anulyst/Engin-er          n.a.        n.n.
Supervision   IV                01/62        2      F.Analyst/eologlt          a            2
Supervision   V                 0/62        8      0eologist/Engineer          2            1
Economist
Supervislon   VI                09/62        2      Geologist/Engineer           1           1
Supervision  VII                05/88        8      Engineer/Economices         2            1         b/
Ge Iogist
Supervision VIII                04/64        2      Engineer/Geologlst          2            1         i/
Supervision   IX                07/64        1      Enginoer                    a            2         i/
Completion                      05/67        1      Er.ginser                   -            -



-iv-
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:            Covernunt of Panama
Executing A9encls:  - Coulsl6n Nacional do Energil (CONADE):  Energy  Planning and
Qeothermal components
- Ministry of Commerco and Industry (MICI): petroloug exploration
and coal coponents.
- Instituto de Recurso. Hidriullcos y Electrificeci6n: overall
coordination.
Follow-On Projects: None
.1 Refers to the energy planning component only, estimated originally to cost
US81.87 million excluding contingencies.
b/ Changes In Covornment priorities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
(LOAN 1954-PAN)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       The project was to support the Government's efferts to discover
petroleum by encouraging oil companies to explore the most promising
offshore and onshore areas in Panama, improve energy planning, and
investigate energy alternatives. The objectives of the exploration
promotion component were to assist in: (a) strengthening the technical
capacity of Directorate General of Mineral Resources (DGRMt in the areas of
petroleum geology and other aspects of petroleum exploration through
offering acreage to oil companies on a bidding basis; (c) training DGRM
staff in the foregoing activities and helping it to become capable of
monitoring activities of operating companies; and, (d) performing
geophysical surveys required for further petroleum exploration. The
objectives of the energy planning component were to establish an effective
energy planning nmit under the Technical Secretariat of the National Energy
Commission (COPADE) and to design a long-term energy strategy.
2.       Project implementation experienced substantial problems almost
from the beginning. After several false starts, by the time of the Loan
Closing Date, the energy planning component was the only one that had been
implemented according to appraisal expectations. The rest of the project
never took-off and, as a result, most of the loan funds were cancelled
(Para. 4.02).  Several reasons contributed to these disappointing results,
of which probably the most important were lack of Government commitment and
changes in priorities due to falling world oil prices. In addition,
internal rivalries between CONADE and The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
(MICI) and frequent changes in the Government may have been a factor in the
limited accomplishments under the project.
3.       In retrospect, it appears that the determining factors for the
project's outcome were primarily outside of the control of the Bank and in
some respects of the Borrower. As a result, probably the only lesson to be
learned from this project is that, in those Bank operations involving
substantial institutional changes and shifts in the existing power
structure, the Bank should ensure a high degree of Government commitment
beyond and above those agencies and/or persons directly involved in
implementing those changes.1
1I Please refer to the Government's comment on this psrticular point
(Attachment 1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION
(LOAN 1954-PAN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Panama, one of the highest consumers of energy per capita in Latin
America, is completely reliant on foreign sources for liquid fuel. The
dramatic increase in world oil prices duting the early seventies dealt a
serious blow to the economy of Panama. As a result, the Government
established as one of its priorities the formulation of an effective
national energy plan and the development of the country's energy planning
capability to ensure the efficient use of energy and the development of
potential indigenous resources, particularly petroleum.
1.02     Panama's potential of energy resources had been investigated to
some degree in the past, but with limited results. In particular, in the
case of petroleum, the outcome of the exploration efforts had been rather
disappointing. However, some oil and gas had been found, thus it was felt
that further exploration efforts using more modern methods could uncover
areas wilft prospective reserves. It was also considered that even a
relatively small find would help to meet Panama's domestic oil needs. For
these reasons, the Government intended to continue the investigation of
petroleum, coal and geothermal resources.
1.03     Institutionally, responsibilities for the sector were, and still
are, difused among several Ministries anc1 public agencies. The Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MICI) is responsible for all matters related to
petroleum, including the supply and pricing of petroleum products. Its
General Directorate for Mineral Resources (Direccion General de Recursos
Minerales, (DGRM) undertakes negotiations related to oil exploration and is
also res. -sible for the coal subsector. The Power Company, Instituto de
Recursos HidrAulicos y Electrificaci6n (IRHE), is concerned with the power
subsector, inrludtrig the setting of electricity prices. The Minister of
Plannling is the chairman of che board of IRHE. Responsibility for
alternate energy sources lies with both IRHE (including geothermal sources)
and the Department of Renewable Resources (RENARE) within the Ministry of
Agriculture.
1.04     Energy planning in Panama entered a new phase with the
establishment ef the National Energy Commission (CONADE) in September 1980.
As an advisory body, the Comnission became responsible for t.he formulation,
coordination, and evaluation of national energy policies covering energy
production, distribution, and consumption. The Commission is headed by the
Director General of IRHE and includes representatives of the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE), the iiinistry of Commerce and Industry
(MICI), the Society of Engineers and Architects, and a representative of



the private sector selected by the Executive Branch. IRHE was to
coordinate CONADE's related work, thus allowing the Commission to benefit
from the management experience which IRHE had accumulated over the years as
the country's electric power company. IHRE's Energy and Tariff Department
(DET) was designated to carry out the functions of Technical Secretariat of
the newly-created National Energy Commission.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Project Origin, Appraisal and Negotiations
2.01     A Bank's sector review of Panama's energy situation (Report No.
3109-DAN, August 21, 1980) helped lay the groundwork for an integrated
approach involving institution building for energy planning, petroleum
exploration promotion, energy conservation, and the investigation of
geothermal and coal resources. The proposed project was ideentified during
the visit of a Bank mission to Panama in April 1980, and was appraised in
September of the same year. Negotiations were held in Washington oat
January 28 to 30, 1981.
B.   Project Objectives
2.02     The project was to support the Government's efforts to discover
petroleum by encouraging oil companies to explore the most promising
offshore and onshore areas in Panama, improve energy planning, and
investigate energy alternatives. The objectives of the exploration
promotion component were to assist in: (a) strengthening the technical
capacity of DGRM in the areas of petroleum geology and other aspects of
petroleum exploration through offering acreage to oil companies on a
bidding basis; (c) training DGRM staff in the foregoing activities and
helping it to become capable of monitoring activities of operating
companies; and, (d) performing geophysical surveys required for further
petroleum exploration. The objectives of the energy planning component
were to establish an effective energy planning unit under the Technical
Secretariat of CONADE and to design a long-term energy strategy.
C.   Pro3ect Description
2.03     The project, as described in the President's Report, comprised
three components:
(a) Petroleum Exploration Promotion Component:
(i)  Support for exploration activities.  Geological
consultants (106 man-months) would assist DGRM in
compilation of data so as to facilitate information access
and analysis by the Government and interested oil
companies. The exploration consultants were to help
organize and interpret surface and sub-surface
information, undertake specialized studies in such areas
as palynology, micropaleontology, sedimentology,



- 3 -
geochemical analyses, etc., if required; assist with
preparation of evaluation reports and bidding documents on
areas to be offered for exploration, evaluation of
proposals by oil companies, contract negotiations,
monitoring of company work commitments, and training of
staff; and provide guidance on exploration strategy. An
international legal firm in cooperation with the
exploration consultants would assist the Government in
reviewing the current petroleum law and provide assistance
in making necessary revisions to protect the interests of
the country, while at the same time providing adequa:e
incentives to attract foreign oil companies. They would
also advise in drawing up a model exploration/production
contract.
(ii)  Geophysical surveys.  The project included an
airmagnetometric survey and seismic surveys (estimated at
a combined cost of US$1.4 million) to be specifically
defined with the assistance of the aforementioned
exploration consultants. It was considered not
practicable at the outset of the project to define, in
full, the type and extent of geophysical surveys required
to design an exploration program that would attract
substantial exploration investment by private oil
companies. Therefore, it was contemplated that additional
seismic surveys, over and above those mentioned earlier,
would be needed to attract substantial private investment.
The loan thus included about US$l million for this purpose
even though the type of these surveys and the areas to be
covered remained to be defined. This relatively small
quantity of unspecified seismic surveys were considered
reasonable to ensure that the seismic program fulfilled
its objective of promoting accelerated exploration by
foreign oil companies at a minimum cost to the Government.
(iii) Training. The project was to provide training for key
management personnel of DGRM and its professional staff in
petroleum exploration techniques, laboratory procedures
and related activities through seminars, on-the-job
training, and intensive courses abroad.
(iv) Computer processing. This component. was to provide for
processing of up to 1,000 line-km of previously acquired
seismic profiles in order to improve offshore geologic
interpretations, and remote sensing imagery.
(v) Equipment. Office and laboratory equipment and materials,
including storage files for geological data, technical
books, magnetic tapes, special copying machines for logs
and profiles, and vehicles.



-4-
(b) Energy Planning Component:
(i) Development of energy plaLning capabilittes of the
Technical Spcretariat/DET. with the help of 30 man-months
of consulting services, so it could provide technical
support and help CONADE exercise its functions. This
assistance was to include training ab)road and in-house
training woLkshops; design of an energy data management
system; a review of energy pricing policies; a ctudy of
energy aspects of government transportation policy and
major investment projects; and integration of the results
through the formulation of a national energy strategy.
(il) Assistance in establishing an energy library through
acquisition of books and materials.
(iii)  Assistance in establishing an energy conservation unit,
including consulting services (eight man-months), training
and equipment. This assistance was to include training
abroad, in-house training workshops, a series of pilot
energy audits for major sectors (commerce, transport,
industry, hotels, residences, and thermal power
generation), and the preparation of a conservation
strategy paper that will provide the basis for
conservation platning and policy in Panama.
(c) Coal and Geothermal Component:
(i) Investigation of coal Potential through a preliminary
field investigation, with a view to define a coal mapping
program in the Bocas del Toro region, and to help carry
out such a program, which would include five man-months of
consulting services. Although available information at
the time of project appraisal indicated that the
aforementioned mapping would be refluired, a final decision
was to depend on the findings of the coal specialist who
would supervise a preliminary field survey.
2.04     The project estimated cost was US$8.0 million.  A loan in the
amount of US$6.5 million was approved by the Executlve Directors on March
17, 1981. Implementation of the project was expected to be completed by
June 30, 1984 and the loan closing date was set for December 31, 1984.
III. PROJECT EXECUTION
A.   General
3.01     Project implementation experienced substantial problems almost
from the beginning. After several false starts, by the time of the Loan
Closing Date, the energy planning component was the only one that had been
implemented according to appraisal expectations. The rest of the project
never took-off and, as a result, most of the loan funds were cantelled



(Para. 4.02). Several reasons contributed to these disappointing results,
of which probably the most important were lack of Government commitment and
changes in priorities due to falling world oil prices. In addition,
Internal rivalries between CONADE and MICI and frequent changes in the
Government may have been a factor in the limited accomplishments under the
project.l    The following paragraphs describe the efforts to implement the
different project components and what was actually achieved.
B.   Project Implementation
(a) Promotion of Coal and Petroleum Exploration:
3.02     This project component was to Include:  (a) compilation of
geological and geophysical information; (b) definition of a strategy for
the promotion of petroleum exploration; (c) airmagnetometric and seismic
surveys; (d) processing of about 1000 line km. of existing seismic
profiles: and (e) review of the borrower's proposed legislation for the
petroleum sector. Contract negotiations with the selected firm of
exploration consultants were completed in February 1982. but the process of
contract approval by the Government was never completed. By June 1983, the
Government made clear that it assigned low priority to this ptoject item
and. in view of the need to reduce expenditures, its implementation was
suspended. The new Government that took office in 1984, however, expressed
renewed interest in petroleum exploration and agreed to Implement this
project component. It was further decided that, since formalization of the
contract with the original firm would be difficult, the best way to proceed
was with individual consultants.2   A suitable candic. te was selected but,
again his hiring was delayed because of problems in the treatment of
personal taxes. Finally, in late 1984, the Government notified the Bank
that, due to austerity measures, this project component would not be
implemented.
3.03     With regard to the review of proposed legislation for the
petroleum sector, the law regulating oil exploration was considered by Bank
staff as inadequate to attract foreign firms for oil exploration. The bill
passed the Legislative Assembly in March 1987, but has not yet been signed
as law by the President.
(b) Planning of Energy Development, Auditing and Conservation:
3.04     As already mentioned, this subproject, entrusted to CONADE, was
the only one that was satisfactorily completed. Its three major elements
were studies on conservation planning, economic efficiency and
institutional organization, which served as a basis for the drafting of an
Energy Sector Strategy Paper. The latter was completed in 1984. However.
it has not yet been formally accepted by the Government. Therefore,
important recommendations emanating from the study have not been acted upon
(Para. 5.02).
1/ The Government is of the opinion that managerial and stru:tural changes
in the Energy Sector, and not 'rivalries', were the main source of
problems (see Attachment 1).
2/ The original firm was paid US$34,000 for work it had performed in data
compilation and organization.



3.05     The most important contract under this project component was
awarded to a French firm to carry out energy audits. This task was
completed in 1982 with the auditing of 33 industries. The sample, which
included all main companies in the private and public sectors, excluding
transportation, covered 20? of the diesel and 80? to 902 of the fuel oil
nationally consumed.
3.06     Two other important contracts under the energy planning compt  nt
were awarded to an Italian firm. One contract was to review energy pr,cing
policies and the other for a technical and economic analysis of energy
source substitution. The results of these studies in terms of future
impact of alternative pricing policies, were incorporated in CONADE's
strategy paper.
3.07     The project also included funds for a study of the energy
implications arising from the borrower's transportation policy and major
investment projects in the borrower's territory. CONADE did not undertake
this study as planned. Rather, the scope of this component was changed to
focus on passenger transport alternatives in order to complement work
already carried out by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
Specifically, CONADE requested to use project funds to carry out a pre-
feasibility study of alternative mass transit systems for Panama City. The
Bank agreed to this request. However, probably because of the political
sensitivity surrounding this issue, no further action was taken on this
subject.
3.08     One important element of the planniing component was the provision
of funds for the development of an energy library, an energy data system,
and a public information and promotion capacity. Consultants were retained
for the design, equipment selection and staff training for the energy
information center. Their performance was reported as satisfactory.
However, because of budgetary constraints, the center did not develop as
envisaged. Problems also arose in the use of the data system developed
under the project and as a result, alternative methods involving micro-
computers are now being favored. Regarding promotional activities, CONADE
is carrying out its functions satisfactorily through a newsletter and
special promotional events.
(c) Training,
3.09     The project included training of selected management and
professional staff In the areas of petroleum exploration techniques,
laboratory procedures and related activities, as well as for strengthening
the capabilities for energy planning, energy audits and energy
conservation. Because the exploration related subprojects were not carried
out, no training was provided in that area. In the case of energy
planning, training took place as envisaged. In particular, professionals
from CONADE attended planning courses in Grenoble, France and seminars in
Bariloche, Argentina.  In addition, substantial emphasis was placed on on-
the job training and know-how transfer from expatriate consultants.  As a
result, CONADE's now counts with a core of professionals with the
capa'oility to perform energy audits and to carry out most routine planning
activities.
!



- 7-
3.10     (d)  Acquisition of equipment:
A minicomputer system for the Energy Information Center was the
only item purchased under this project component.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENTS
4.01     The following table provides a summarized comparison of the
originally expected and actual costs. As discussed in the preceding
chapter, only the costs of the works under the energy planning component
are comparable, since the rest of the project was not carried out as
planned. The total cost of the energy planning component was US$1.0
million, 38Z below the original estimate. In the case of the petroleum
exploration component, only US$37,000 were spent to compensate the
consultants for the initial data compilation. Although no contract had
been signed, the payment was necessary to secure the consultant's release
of the data.
Comparison of Expected and Actual Costs
(US$ Thousands)
Item                              Expected /           Actual
Petroleum Exploration                     5,340                  37
Energy Planning                           1,640               1,021
Geothermal Studies                          585                 -
Investigation of Coal Resources             435                 _
TOTALs         8,000               1,058
1/ Including contingencies.
4.02     Because of the limited project implementation disbursement of loan
funds was systematically below planned disbursements.  As shown in the
Table below, by the time of the loan closing date, US$5.9 million remained
unidisbursed. On October 24, 1984, the Government requested the
cancellation of the loan funds allocated to the exploration component and
related training, the coal and geothermal studies, and the acquisition of
office and laboratory equipment, laboratory materials and vehicles for the
exploration component. The loan account was closed in September 1985 to
allow for disbursements related to the minicomputer system. A total of
US$5,911,337.95 of loan funds were cancelled.
Comparison of Expected and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
FY 1981   FY 1982   FY 1983   FY1984   FY1985
Appraisal Expected       0.4      3.0         6.0       6.5        -
Actual                    -        -          0.3       0.5       0.6



V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORHANCE
5.01     Implicit in the institutional objectives of the project was the
development of CONADE as a strong National Energy Agency and its eventual
institutionalization through budgetary allocations independent from IRHE.
The project was successful ir. strengthening the newly created CONADE's
capabilities to carry out its planning functions. However, CONADE did not
achieve the political and institutional status that were necessary to have
a meaningful influence in the sector's major decisions concerning both
pricing and investment policies.
5.02     CONADE's professional staff grew from several part-time temporary
personnel from IRHE to over 25 full-time experienced professionals. They
successfully carried out, with the assistance of expatriate consultants,
studies to support a comprehensive energy sector strategy paper. This
policy paper ('Lineamientos para el Desarrollo del Sector Energia
1986-1995') reviews past, present and future energy use trends, energy
policy objectives, recommends studies, and specific actions for the short
and long-term. In particular, the study makes recommendations on issues
such as the lack of competitivenss of local refineries, the need to change
agreements with Mexico and Venezuela for the purchase of crude oil, and
revision of pricing policies to encourage conservation and the development
of alternative sources of energy. These recommendations, however, were not
adopted by the Government.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01     The project was only successful in achieving the objective of
improving energy planning, but did not accomplish its major goal of
improving Panama's potential to discover petroleum by encouraging oil
companies exploration of the most promising offshore and onshore areas in
the country. As discussed throughout this report, the main reason for the
disappointing results under the project was the change in priorities
apparently caused by the fall in world oil prices. However, factors such
as conflicting interests within the Government and lack of MICI
capabilities to deal with the petroleum exploration portion of the loan,
are also important to explain the poor results under the project.
6.02     In retrospect, it appears that the determining factors for the
project's outcome were primarily outside of the control of the Bank and in
some respects of the Borrower. As a result, probably the only lesson to be
learned from this project is that, in those Bank operations involving
substantial institutional changes and shifts in the existing power
structure, the Bank should ensure a high degree of Government commitment
beyond and above those agencies and/or persons directly involved in
implementing those changes.3
3/  Please refer to the Government's comments on this particular point
(Attachment 1).



ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLICA DE PANAMA
DIR,ECC1SON CAURLEGRAFICA                                            APARTAGO 5265
218   RH      P                        CNE-ST-60-89 APANAMA S. . P.
Agosto 25, 1989
Seftor
*            Alexander Nowicki
Jefe Divisi6n de Prestamos
.para Ajustes de PolIticas
Econ6micas y Sectoriales,
Industrias, Servicios P6blicos
y Sector Urbano
Departamento de Evaluaci6n de
Proyectos
E.            S.             D.
Estimado Sefior Nowicki:
En atencion a su nota del 26 de julio de 1989 concerniente
al Informe de tramitaci6n del Proyecto "Planificaci6n del Sec-
tor Energia y Promoci6n de la Exploraci6n Petrolera" (Pr6stamo
No.1954-PAN), permitame expresarle las siguientes opiniones y
comentarios.
En celaci6n a lo actuado por el IRHE-CONADE en la parte
del Proyecto correspondiente a la Planificaci6n del Sector Ener
gla, estamos de acuerdo con lo indicado en el Informe en los pi
rrafos 3.04, 5.01 y 5.02.
En cambio, las opiniones del Banco relacionadas a la eva-
ludci6n integral del Pcoyecto e indicadas en los pSrrafos 2.3
de los Aspectos Sobresalientes y la 6ltima parte del pgrrafo
6.02 de las conclusiones, no las compartimos en virtud de lo si
guiente:
- No se puede atribuir como causa de no realizaci6n de la par
te del Proyecto concerniente a la Promocion de las Explora-
ciones Petrolecas a "las civalidades entre la CONADE y el
Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias". Da la impresi6n que
los organismos estatales estuvieron rivalizando la ejecuci6n
de esa parte del Proyecto, lo cual es totalmente falso
porque el IRHE-CONADE estuvo siempre conciente que dicha ces
ponsabilidad recala en el Ministerio de Comercio e Indus-
trias.
_ ELECTRICIDAD PARA EL PROGRESO DEL PAIS _           cRe



ATTACHMENT 1
- 10 -                       Page 2 of 4
En efecto al inicio del Proyecto que se prepar6 conjuntamente
y coordinadamente con la Direcci6n General de Recursos Minera
les (DGRM) del Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias, todo co-
menz6 a funcionar bien.
La verdadera causa del problema para esta parte -s1 proyecto
se produjo al interno del Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias
al ocurrir cambios en la Jefatura del Ministerio y de la Di-
recci6n General de Recursos Minerales, al igual que cambios
estructurales en dicho Ministerio. En eate sentido se cre6 la
Direcci6n General de Hidrocarburos (DGH) a a la cual se tras-
pas6 las responsabilidades que en principio fueron consignadas
en el Proyecto para la DGRM.
La recien creada Direcci6n General de Hidrocarburos del Minis
terio de Comercio e Industrias no tenIa la experiencia adminis
trativa y tecnica para la realizaci6n del Proyecto, por eso se
intent6 ejecutar el mismo mediante f6rmulas diferentes a las
estipuladas en el documento original del Proyecto.
- La parte final de los parrafos 2.3 de los Aspectos Sobresalien
tes y 6.02 de las Conclusiones merecen una mejor redacci6n
para evitar malas interpretaciones, como se lee a continuaci6n,
"en las operaciones del Banco que entraften cambios institucio-
nales sustanciales y reorientaciones de la estructura de poder
existente..."
En este sentido, lo que se debe indicar es, que si bien, en
los objetivos del Proyecto estaba incluido la consolidaci6n y je
carquizaci6n de la CONADE, este hecho requerIa una mejor defini-
ci6n del apoyo que el Gobierno darIa a este cambio estructural
en el Sector EnergIa para que las recomendaciones del proyecto
fueran aceptadas.
Solicit&ndole tomar en cuenta estas observaciones en el do-
cumnnto final del informe an crferencia, quedamos de Usted,
Atentamente,
I  *    GLDO H  RERA
Director General



- 11 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 3 of 4
Comments from the Institute of Hydraulic Resources
and Electrification
Unofficial Translation
August 25th, 1989
Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Division Chief
Operation Evaluation Department
World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mister Nowicki:
In relation to your note dated July 26, 1989 regarding the Project
Completion Report for the Energy Planning and Petroleum Exploration Project
(Loan 1954-PAN), let me express the following opinions and comments.
Regarding the participation of IRHE-CONADE in the energy planning
component, we agree with the Report's assessment in paragraphs 3.04, 5.01
and 5.02.
However, we do not share the Bank's opinion with respect to the
project evaluation contained in paragraph 2.3 of the Highlights and the
last part of paragraph 6.02 of the concluq..ons because:
-        The fact that tie Petroleum Exploration Promotion Component of
the project was not implemented, cannot be attributed to
"rivalries between CONADE and the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry". It gives the impression that state entities were
rivaling for the implementation of that project component, which
is totally false because the IRHE-CONADE was always aware that
that responsibility fell on the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.
Indeed. during the initial stage of the project, which was
jointly and coordinately prepared with the General Directorate of
Mineral Resources (DGRM) of the Hinistry of Commerce and
Industry, everything started to work well.
The real cause of the problem with this project component took
place with the changes in the management of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry and the Directorate General of Mineral



- 12 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 4 of 4
Resources, as well as structural changes in that Ministry. In
this sense, the General Directorate of Hydrocarbons (DGH) was
created, and the responsibilities originally entrusted to DGRM
were transferred to it.
The newly created Directorate General of Hydrocarbons in the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry did not have the administrative
or technical experience fur the implementation of the project;
that is the reason why it was intended to implement it through
different formulas than those stipulated in the project document.
The final part of paragraph 2.3 of the Highlights and paragraph
6.02 of the Conclusions deserve a better wording to avoid
misinterpretation, as the following, "in those Bank operations
involving substantial institutional changes and shifts in the
existing power structure..."
In this sense, what should be indicated is that, even when the
objectives of the project included strengthening and increasing
the importance of CONADE, this required a better definition of
the support the Government would give to this structural change
in the Energy Sector so that project recommendations would be
accepted.
Requesting you to take into account these observations in the
final version of the referenced report, we remain,
Truly yours,
Ing. Ovigildo Herrera
Director General



IBRD 154
-     22                                                                         89                                            W                                          7*                                           75
,           19836            _3      ==                                                                                                  |-                                   > Coronation Perrolere                                                     --     /  
2,0319n                            1\QP;
U      .\                         2tha6  Oi         V2                                                                                                                                                    ____RAG__A       -'3    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                   -        y   s ; > > S       J   o l   2 8 7 .  }r 
ffi~~~~~~ 32-is Petolue Serl6n A.                              A      Gfdfe
,,..    ~ ~ ~                                      -       CITY                                           979V";
;j      195.. *         _ , 62n 2e038
Per*walet"wSn e    w           H    . __ Int                            >      e      r      n      r      *P  ono et                                                                         2 Z 28-Petrie ' ~ 3 S Cod                     xltin,  Pe.  mot f  't,    LAM
0*, -                                                                                                            C   DI  E_                     1                     e R S  r_0blwd o
20i C".pli.Oi-   $~-< ~ e  T,.                                                                                         4             S~                                       WGleei                         ~      '~              C
2,3           -0192 49n16                                                                                                                                                                                             0    <
,         sr S8                                                                                     8                                            11-                                          1956
1ITY                                          1924     229      '12
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    
)22-P.,,.1-  1925                                                                                                                                                 I   D.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~30PIreS.        S
K  CeibeL  7-                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           AND   ~~~~~WELLSGO  IN 191CO                                                            OM      I
1506.  i.D            I R  I~~K Q                                                                                                      I        PamaExpoA tinSn 
23-P.1,o1.,.Chi6-.._~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   . osaPtrlum  .A                                                                                                                                              6161
1959---,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~stmsEporto,Ic
2M96tS                                                                                                                                                                                          210460Povnilbudris® SnBa Epoain  ic     .   .       eniberSr
CoaCuCa9ron.raenrrexerearemeee   ~      ~     ~    ~     Sntio       .-..ItrainlbudreP od    xlrto,Ic.   tI"ALa 639



