, _ * ~~Document of
FILt COPY The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2934-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
E>XECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR AN
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
February 25, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authornntion.



Currency Unit = Balboa (B/. 1)
US$1 = B/. 1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins;
The U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )        =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
BD                              - Barrels daily
GWh                             -  Gigawatt - hour  =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
Ha                              -  Hectare           =  2.47 acres
Ml                              - Megawatt           =  1,000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS
BLADEX      - Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones
(Latin American Export Bank)
BNP         - Banco Nacional de Panama (National Bank of Panama)
CIP        -  Centro de Investigaciones Petroleras
(Center for Petroleum Research)
CCBAPA     -  Corporacion Bananera del Pacifico
(Banana Corporation of the Pacific)
CODEMIN    -  Corporacion de Desarrollo Minero-Cerro Colorado
(Corporation for Mining Development - Cerro Colorado)
COFINA     -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional (National Finance Corporation)
CONADE     -  Comision Nacional de Energia (National Energy Commission)
DET        -  Departamento de Energia y Tarifas
(Department of Energy and Tariffs)
DGRM       -  Direccion General de Recursos Minerales
(Directorate General of Natural Resources)
GDP        -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -  Gross National Product
IDAAN      -  Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales
(National Water and Sewerage Institute)
IDB        -  Inter-American Development Bank
IRHE       -  Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrification
(Institute of Hydraulic Resources and Electrification)
LIBOR      -  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
LPG        -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
MICI       - Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias
(Ministry Qf Commerce and Industry)
MIPPE      -  Ministerio de Planification y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
LTNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Panama
Beneficiaries:      Comision Nacional de Energia (CONADE) through the Departrment
of Energy and Tariffs (DET) of the Instituto de Recursos
Hidraulicos y Electrificacion (IRHE) for the energy planning
and geothermal components, and the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry (MICI) through its Directorate General of Mineral
Resources (DGRM) for the petroleum exploration and coal
components. IRHE would act as overall project coordinator
and administering agency for the loan.
Amount:             US$ 6.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Seventeen years, including 4 years of grace at 9.6 percent
interest per annum.
Project             The project would assist the Government in accelerating
Description:        petroleum exploration, improving energy planning, and
investigating the potential for development of energy
alternatives. The project includes:
(a) A petroleum exploration promotion component which
would provide assistance in compilation of petro-
leum exploration information, negotiation of contracts
with oil companies, revision of petroleum legislation,
preparation of specialized studies, and monitoring
of oil company activities, if required. This compo-
nent would also include geophysical studies, equipment
and materials for DGRM, and staff training.
(b) An energy planning component which would (i) provide
assistance in developing the capabilities of the
Technical Secretariat of CONADE through staff training,
the development of a data management system and the
preparation of studies on pricing, energy aspects of
transportation, and integration of the results through
the formulation of a national energy strategy; and
(ii) establish an energy library and an energy
conservation unit.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(c)  A geothermal and coal component which consists oE
an electric resistivity survey (a geophysical. study)
of a geothermal site (Cerro Pando), completion of
analyses of 23 additional geothermal sites, and a
preliminary field investigation of coal resources.
Based on the consultants' findings, this component
could include geophysical studies of the additional
geothermal sites, and coal mapping.
Benefits            The petroleum exploration promotion component would help
and Risks:          attract foreign capital for intensive exploration work.
The risks associated with this component are that the
prospects may not be attractive enough for oil companies
to engage in exploration drilling or that the companies
might not consider eventual discoveries to be of commercial
interest. In view of Panama's possible geological potential
as indicated by available geological data and the interest
already expressed by some oil companies, the probable
benefits outweigh the risks.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                  US$ thousands equivalent
Local      Foreign        Total
Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Component (DGRM)
Consulting services                            380        1,115        1,495
Computer processing                              -          320           320
Geophysical surveys (airmag,
and marine and land seismic) 1/                220       2,270         2,490
Specialized services & studies                   -           40           40
Equipment and materials                          5           25            30
Training                                         5           80           85
Subtotal - Base Costs                        610       3,850         4,460
Energy Planning Component (IRHE)
Consulting services                             50          455          505
Training                                         -          120          120
Equipment and library materials                 10          165          175
Energy conservation and pilot
energy audits                                 80         190           270
Local staff and facilities                     300          -            300
Subtotal - Base Costs                        440         930         1,370
Geothermal Studies (IRHE)
Consulting services                             10            50          60
Geophysical studies                             80           350         430
Subtotal - Base Costs                         90          400          490
Investigation of Coal Resources (DGRM)
Consulting services                             10            65           75
Field investigation and geological mapping  100              185         285
Subtotal - Base Costs                        110           250         360
Grand Total - Base Costs                   1,250        5,430        6,680
Physical contingencies                         105           430         535
Price contingencies 2/                         145           640         785
Total Contingencies                         250        1,070        1,320
Total Project Cost                       1,500         6,500        8,000
1/  Extent and type of geophysical surveys to be determined by exploration
consultants.
2/  Price escalation for foreign costs is projected at 9% for 1981, 8% for
1982, and 7% for 1983, and for local costs it is projected at 13% in
1981 and 10% thereafter.



- iv -
Fin-ancing Plan:
US$ thousands equivalent
Local        Foreign        Total
Government                            1,500            -         1,500
Bank                                    -           6,500        6,500
1,500        6,500        8,000
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year       1981       1982      1983      1984
Annual                  400      2,600      3,000      500
Cumulative              400      3,000     6,000    6,500
Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:             None.  This is a combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANTAMA
FOR AN ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$6.5 million to help
finance an energy planning and petroleum exploration promotion project.
Executing agencies for the Project would be the Comision Nacional de Energia
(CONADE) through the Department of Energy and Tariffs (DET) of the Instituto
de Recursos Hidraulicos y Electrification (IRHE) for the energy planning and
geothermal components, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MICI) through
its Directorate General of Mineral Resources (DGRM) for the petroleum exploration
and coal components. IRHE would act as overall project coordinator and
administering agency for the loan. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including a four-year grace period, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Panama's Development in the 1980s:  A Special
Economic Report" (2306-PAN) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 31, 1979. A Bank economic mission visited Panama in September 1980 and
its report is being prepared. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Although Panama continues to be adversely affected by sharp increases
in petroleum prices, it has managed to reverse the decline in per capita GDP
experienced during 1974-77. GDP grew by 4.9 percent in 1979 and by an esti-
mated 5.3 percent in 1980, double the rate of population growth. Despite
recent improvements, GDP growth rates are still well below the annual rate of
7 percent achieved between 1955 and 1973.
4.        The Government's three main concerns since 1968 have been to
eliminate rural poverty, to increase national control over the economy,
including the Panama Canal, and to create new sources of economic growth and
exports. Social programs in health and education were extended to most areas,
and an agrarian reform program was initiated. Major investments were under-
taken in transport, tourism, international commercial infrastructure, water
and sewerage, and power, mostly to provide support for expected private activ-
ities. Power and most telecommunications facilities were nationalized. New
State enterprises were created for export crops such as sugar, citrus, and
bananas; and a State-owned cement plant was built. Self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs such as rice, corn, and beans was also accorded high priority.
5.        The Government's social programs have had considerable success in
enhancing the quality of life in Panama, especially as reflected in demographic,
health and educational indicators. Infant mortality declined by 20 percent
between 1968 and 1976, while fertility rates fell from 131.3 per thousand in
1971 to 114 per thousand in 1975. Access to potable water for the rural



- 2 -
population increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976. The
proportion of the population enrolled in schools of all types increasel. 1:om
less than one-quarter to over one-third between 1968 and 1978. Despite these
achievements, estimates indicate that some 21 percent of the urban and about
30 percent of the rural population continue to live in severe poverty with
access to employment being inadequate to ensure satisfactory nutritional
intake and decent housing.
6.        The Government's economic programs have had mixed results.  Project-,
like the Colon Free Zone and hydro-electric installations have been quite
successful, in the first case by increasing earnings from export of services,
and in the second by reducing the burden of rising petroleum costs.  (thers
involving direct production by the public sector or affecting private secLor
decisions have been less successful.  Agricultural production programs have
led to self-sufficiency in rice and increased the output of milk, but have had
less impact on the output of beef, and feed grains. State production of sugar
has increased exportable output but the enterprise has operated unprofitably
until the recent price rise. Similarly, State enterprises in cement and
tourism have been unprofitable, and together with sugar operations their
deficits have been a burden on the fisc. The entry of the public sector into
production activities competing with private for private enterprise, the
resort to price controls to insulate consumers from inflationary pressures,
and uncertainties relating to Government labor policies adversely affected the
climate for private investment. Recent improvements in the dialogue between
Government and the private sector, modifications in the original labor policies,
and some relaxation in price restraints appear to have increased private sector
confidence.
7.        The high level of outlays for economic and social infrastructure,
coupled with the substantial losses of State enterprises, resulted in significant
increases in the public external debt, despite periodic efforts to strengthen
the public finances. The public sector deficit increased from 4.4 percent of
GDP in 1970 to over 15 percent of GDP in 1978. In 1979, the deficit fell to
11.1 percent of GDP, largely as a result of a reduction in investment. In
spite of the improvement, the deficit was slightly above that expected by the
Government and the ceiling established in an IMF Standby Agreement. Increased
revenues were offset by higher interest and oil costs, thereby continuing the
virtual absence of public sector savings during recent years. Deficits of
State enterprises in sugar, cement and tourism continued to weigh heavily in
public sector finances.
8.        At the end of 1979, Panama's disbursed external public debt was
US$2.1 billion or just over 82 percent of GDP. Loans from commercial financial
institutions and suppliers' credits accounted for 58 percent of external debt,
bond holding sources for 17 percent, and the remainder equally divided between
multilateral and bilateral sources. During 1979 the disbursed public external
debt rose by US$200 million. Public external debt service in relation to GDP
has been estimated at 13 percent in 1979 compared to seven percent in 1977;
and in relation to public revenues has been estimated at 37 percent in 1979
compared to 27 percent in 1977. These reflect both the rapid growth in the
debt and the impact of recent increases in the interest cost of debt held by
commercial sources at floating rates tied to LIBOR.



9.        Early in 1980, the Government of Panama took a series of actions in
an effort to reduce the public sector deficit toward a goal of eight percent of
GDP in 1980 and six percent of GDP in 1981. These measures included increases
in taxes on gasoline and cigarettes and in maritime and corporate registration
fees, improvements in income tax administration, elimination of several income
tax exonerations and reductions in current and capital transfers to decentral-
ized agencies and public enterprises. The reduction of these transfers has
already resulted in increases in the prices of 19 basic items including milk,
bread, and tomatoes, mostly distributed through the Agricultural Marketing
Institute and rental rates charged by the State Machinery Pool. Some profit-
able agencies, e.g., the telecommunications company and the Colon Free Zone,
were required to increase their transfers to Central Government.  The
emergency employment program--Plan de Urgencia--originally introduced in
November 1977 with 1,059 workers but which rose to 17,146 by the end of
February 1980, was discontinued on the latter date. In conjunction with
favorable sugar prices which have reduced the deficit of the state sugar
company, a major increase in canal revenues, and very buoyant tax revenues,
these measures more than achieved the targeted reduction in the public
sector deficit for 1980, despite rising salary, interest, and energy costs.
The public sector deficit at December 31, 1980, estimated at US$206 million,
was well within the ceiling of US$260 million agreed with the International
Monetary Fund. Panama has reached agreement with the Fund on a ceiling of
US$215 million for December 1981. Further reduction in the public sector
deficit beyond 1981 will depend on specific actions to reduce the operating
deficits of State enterprises and on adherence to a public investment program
of a size consistent with realistic expectations regarding public sector
savings.
10.       The strategy for recovery and growth of the economy now requires
that private capital and entrepreneurs provide the buoyancy in economic
activity that the public sector can no longer provide. New opportunities have
indeed been created for the private sector. The high level of public invest-
ment over the years has provided an expanded physical infrastructure and a
relatively skilled labor force. Investments in hydropower are reducing
Panama's dependence on increasingly expensive imported petroleum. Tax incen-
tives and financing facilities for industry are readily available. In agricul-
ture, recent increases in support prices and provision of credit facilities
are designed to realize the potential for increased production and exports of
beef, fruit, cocoa, and coffee, and for replacing imports of vegetable oils
and dairy products.
11.       The prospects for growth also depend on the use of land and facili-
ties reverting to Panama and on the higher earnings to be received by Panama
under the new Canal Treaty. Implementation of the Treaty began on October 1,
1979 and will be completed on December 31, 1999, when the Canal and all
ancillary facilities will revert to Panama. Already the ports of Balboa and
Cristobal, two abandoned airfields, much valuable land, and most service
outlets of the former Panama Canal Company's supply division have reverted to
Panama. The reverting land makes even more feasible a spatial orientation
in development strategy which emphasizes the metropolitan area, bounding
the Canal and traversing the isthmus from the Atlantic to the Pacific, as the
best site for activities to take advantage of Panama's excellent geographic



location. The Government is actively planning the conservation and further
development of infrastructure in this area for expanded private sector activi-
ties which would generate employment, revenues and rents adequate to pay for
these public investments.
12.       Although the longer-term outlook for the Panamanian economy seems
favorable, given its geographic advantages, a low population/land ratio, and
large hydroelectric potential, the medium-term outlook will depend on the
public policy approach to certain critical domestic issues and on the perfor-
mance of the international economy. The critical domestic issues include rising
urban unemployment, the growth of the public external debt, the relative roles
of the public and private sectors, and the climate for private investment--
especially as regards prices and wages policies. The Government is now keenly
aware of these issues. It has developed and is continuing a dialogue with
businessmen, and has recognized the need for a more flexible approach to price
control and the need to reduce its direct involvement in activities which not
only compete with the private sector, but often operate at a loss. Recently
it has acted decisively to reduce the public sector deficit and slow the
growth of the public external debt. In addition, it is pursuing a program to
attract internationally-integrated (maguila) industries by simplifying proce-
dures for establishing plants and granting incentives and by training labor in
response to the specific manpower requirements of incoming firms. The effect
of these actions will be reinforced should the recent resurgence in growth
continue. The Bank will be monitoring the impact of recent measures and is
continuing a dialogue with the Government as it seeks to reduce the losses of
public enterprises, while encouraging higher growth and greater employment.
On the basis of the fiscal measures recently taken by the Government, its open
and frank dialogue with the Bank, and the favorable longer-term outlook, we
consider Panama creditworthy for Bank lending, provided it continues to abide
by the targets it has set itself in the fiscal adjustment program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank has to date made twenty loans to Panama totalling US$313.2
million (net of cancellations). Of these, 10 loans for US$137.4 million,
are fully disbursed (two for roads totalling US$13 million; one for an airport
project for US$20 million; three for agriculture totalling US$4.4 million, three
for power for US$76 million and one for ports for US$24 million). Ongoing
operations include two projects for livestock credit; one for fisheries; one
for development of tropical trees, one in development banking; three in the
power sector (for generation, transmission and distribution); a project to
help develop the water supply and sewerage sector; one for highway mainte-
nance and the most recent Bank operation, a loan for the Colon Urban Develop-
ment Project, approved by the Executive Directors in June 1980.
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed. The second
is a commitment approved by the Executive Directors in December 1977 to lend



- 5 -
US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A.,
the first glass container factory in Panama. The project has been completed and
operations were recently initiated. The third is a commitment to acquire US$2.5
million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones (BLADEX), a
regional export bank proposed and promoted by the Government of Panama.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further development of
Panama's service industries and the diversification of production and exports.
Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which it can make a special
contribution in terms of (i) developing policies and institutions, (ii) removing
infrastructure bottlenecks, and (iii) better utilizing the country's natural
resources, particularly its geographic location. The project now under con-
sideration would complement the Bank's long-standing role in the development
of the power sector, where we have supported the conversion of the country's
generating capacity from thermal to predominantly hydroelectric sources,
thereby reducing Panama's dependence on imported fuel. Other projects
under active consideration for Bank lending are a second water supply project,
which would support the rehabilitation of the water and sewerage systems in
downtown Colon and in Panama City; a highway maintenance and rehabilitation
project; a project which would assist in the rehabilitation of the Canal ports
of Cristobal and Balboa as well as a loan for the second stage of the Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project. Documents relating to a proposed loan for a Second
Development Banking Project have been distributed to the Executive Directors.
16.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent substantial amounts for agricul-
ture and for social services (including family planning in the case of USAID).
Past lending patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social
services, because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for
those sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction,
industry and telecommunications, sectors in which it is likely that it will
continue lending. The IDB also participated with the Bank in the financing
of the Fortuna Hydroelectric Project and may finance a rural electrification
program. USAID expects to concentrate its efforts on manpower training and
projects oriented toward environmental protection. USAID is also lending for
alternative sources of energy (other than petroleum).  As the proposed loan
would finance a technical assistance program, the UNDP was consulted on
whether it would be in a position to finance it. The UNDP indicated that it
did not have funds in its program for the proposed project.
17.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 5.6 percent at the end of 1979 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service is projected to be 3.6 percent at the
end of 1979. These percentages are expected to increase slightly in the 1980's.



- 6 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
18.       Principally as a result of its highly developed commercial sector,
Panama's per capita energy consumption is higher than that of most countries
in Latin America. Commercially-marketed energy in Panama represents about
75 percent of total energy consumption.  Imported petroleum meets over 90 per-
cent of commercial energy requirements, hydropower 8 percent, and imported
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) accounts for the balance. Panama has a hydro-
electric potential of about 10,000 GWh annually but only 1,155 GWh, or about
12 percent of the total, has been tapped. With installation of the 255 MW
Fortuna hydroelectric plant (Loan 1470-PAN), scheduled for completion in 1983,
Panama's hydroelectric capacity will more than double, to over 2,400 GWh per
year, and thermal power generation will drop to nearly zero, except for
transitional requirements and abnormally dry years.
19.       Apart from hydropower, the country's known domestic energy sources
are limited to wood and bagasse. Wood, which accounted for an estimated
8 percent of total energy consumption in 1979, has long been used in rural
areas for cooking, but its use has decreased as a consequence of deforestation,
urbanization, and a rising standard of living. Bagasse, which represents
only about one percent of Panama's fuel consumption, is used locally in the
sugar industry to generate electricity and provide steam needed in sugar
refining.
20.       The existence of tar pits and gas encountered in water holes has
long suggested the possibility of petroleum resources in Panama. From 1919
to date, however, only thirty-two exploratory wells have been drilled, far
too few and shallow to permit a reasonable prediction about the existence of
exploitable petroleum or gas reserves in Panama. Further exploration seems
justified by the geological information available, especially in light of the
steeply rising costs of imported crude.
21.       The increased cost of imported fuel has stimulated the search for
domestic energy alternatives. With the assistance of the UNDP, for example,
the Government has undertaken an inventory of hot springs as a first step
in the identification of geothermal resources.   Interest in these resources
arises from the existence of several springs around an inactive volcano
(Baru) in Western Panama, and the Corporacion de Desarrollo Minero-Cerro
Colorado's (CODEMIN) concern about the availability of energy for its proposed
copper mine. From 1975 to 1979, CODEMIN sponsored a series of geothermal
studies, including one at Cerro Pando. With technical assistance from the
UNDP -- largely funded by the OPEC Fund under a regional project for Central
America -- the aformentioned studies also included a preliminary inventory and
chemical analysis of 37 hot springs. A Bank-financed geothermal consultant
has recommended an electrical resistivity survey (a geophysical study) of
Cerro Pando to be followed, if appropriate, by deep exploration drilling.



- 7 -
22.       The existence of coal has been reported since colonial times, but a
geological survey has yet to be undertaken. There has been some m±inat pros-
pection excavation, but most efforts to investigate existing coal occurrences
have been sporadic and fragmented. CODEMIN has become a potential customer
for coal as a result of the high energy requirements of its proposed Cerro
Colorado Copper Mine (tentatively planned for start-up in 1986). For the
longer term -- given the probability of relatively small coal deposits -- the
principal potential customer would be the Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicos y
Electrificacion (IHRE), whose expansion plans might well call for construction
of thermal power plants after the year 2000.
23.       In its role as coordinator of the newly-formed National Er-ergy
Commission (CONADE), IHRE has asked the Bank to include in the proposed loan
components for the required geothermal studies, and coal mapping, both of
which were identified in the Bank's recently-issued energy sector memorandum
(Report No. 3109-PAN, August 21, 1980).
24.       Elsewhere in the field of alternate energy resources, the state-owned
sugar corporation (Corporacion Azucarera la Victoria) is investigating gasohol
possibilities. Also, with the assistance of USAID, the Government is under-
taking pilot demonstration projects in wood-fueled power generation, biogas
production, and solar heating and cooling. Lastly, the IDB is contemplating
financing a regional offshore seismic survey which could include Panama. The
nature and timing of the survey is uncertain, but if it is carried out, arrange-
ments would be made with the IDB to ensure that there would be no duplication
of areas covered.
Sectoral Institutions and Policies
25.       Energy planning in Panama entered a new phase with the establishment
of CONADE in September 1980. As an advisory body, the Commission is respon-
sible for formulation, coordination, and evaluation of national energy policy
covering energy production, distribution, and consumption. The Commission is
headed by the Director General of IRHE -- the national electric power company --
and includes representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
(MIPPE), the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI), the Society of Engineers
and Architects, and a representative of the private sector selected by the
Executive Branch.
26.       IRHE will coordinate CONADE-related work, thus allowing the Commission
to benefit from the management experience which IRHE has accumulated over the
years as the country's electric power company. IHRE's Energy and Tariff
Department (DET) has been designated to carry out the functions of Technical
Secretariat of the newly-created National Energy Commission. Currently, nine
of DET's 30 professional staff members are assigned to work related to the
Commission. In view of the new emphasis being placed on energy planning, and
to carry out its additional responsibilities, the Technical Secretariat/DET
expects to hire 19 more professional staff members in 1981, with the costs to
be defrayed by the Government.



- 8 -
27.       A start has been made in developing the Technical Secretariat/DET's
institutional capabilities beyond the scope of electric utility planning. The
UKDP, for example, is assisting in preparation of a national energy balance
for Panama which involves on-the-job training of two DET staff members. Three
additional staff members are participating in the aforementioned USAID project
(paragraph 24). To fulfill its recently-acquired responsibilities, which
includes preparation of a long-term energy strategy for Panama, the Technical
Secretariat/DET will require technical assistance in macro-economic planning
as it relates to the energy sector, energy pricing analysis, legal and regula-
tory issues, statistical analysis and forecasting, data management, environ-
mental analysis, demand management, and conservation. The proposed loan
component for energy planning addresses these institution-building needs.
28.       As CONADE develops institutional capabilities and begins to fill
the role outlined in its charter, it will also be necessary for it to devote
substantial efforts in coordinating its work on energy with the Government's
overall planning for other important economic sectors. In this connection, to
maximize the benefits from a currently-planned metropolitan area transportation
study, CONADE proposes, with Bank assistance, to analyze energy aspects of
transportation and urban planning.
29.       In addition to coordination of supply-related activities, CONADE
also has a mandate to foster energy conservation activities. To develop its
capabilities in this area, CONADE is planning to establish, within the Technical
Secretariat/DET, an energy conservation unit, and has requested Bank assistance
in the form of training, equipment, and performance of a series of pilot energy
audits.
30.       In the past, energy prices in Panama have generally reflected
international prices. (In early 1981, retail prices of petroleum products
ranged from US$0.82/gal. for fuel oil and US$1.26/gal. for light diesel
to US$2.04/gal. for 87-octane gasoline). While electricity prices continue
to be based on long-term marginal costs, petroleum product prices might need
some further adjustments in light of recent increases in international fuel
prices. To help ensure the continued effectiveness of pricing policies for
the entire energy sector, a pricing study has been included in the proposed
project.
Energy Investment Outlook
31.       The sharp increases in fuel prices since 1973 have stimulated develop-
ment of Panama's ample hydropower potential as is appropriately reflected in
IHRE's expansion program. Hydroelectric resources are expected to represent
about 20 percent of the total energy supply in 1980, compared to six percent in
1979, and would replace 45 percent of the petroleum which would otherwise be
needed in 1990. Nevertheless, since no significant indigenous resources apart
from hydro-energy are now readily exploitable based on present technologies,
Panama's energy requirements will continue for some time to be met largely
through imported petroleum.



-9
Petroleum Sub-sector
32.       Panama has no petroleum production.  Traditionally, its oil imports
came mainly from Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, and were blended in Texaco's
100,000-BD refinery in Panama. Starting in 1973, oil purchases were increased
from Ecuador, and in 1979 shipments from that source accounted for 50 percent
of the total, with 30 percent coming from Saudi Arabia and about 20 percent
from Venezuela. The economics of the refinery are strongly influenced by
production at similar-size installations in the Caribbean region and Central
America. Partly because of the excess refinery capacity now existing in the
area, present production at the refinery in Panama totals only 39,000 BD, of
which 18,000 BD are consumed domestically and the balance exported.  As a
consequence of this under-utilization, unit-refining costs have increased,
thus causing upward pressure on product prices in Panama.
33.       The average cost of imported crude rose from US$13 per barrel in
1978 to US$20.2 in 1979, and to more than US$35 per barrel currently. As a
result, Panama's oil import bill (net of petroleum product exports) rose
from US$69.6 million in 1973 to $88.5 million in 1978, and nearly doubled
again in 1979, to US$155.4 million. This cost imposes a heavy burden on the
economy of Panama since it accounts for 19 percent of total export earnings
and about 15 percent of merchandise imports.
Petroleum Geology
34.       Onland.  Panama's land area is about 75,600 km , of which sedimentary
areas cover some 31,000 km2. To date, 29 land wells have been drilled, or an
average of one well per 1,069 km2 of prospective land area.
35.       The Isthmus of Panama began developing from marine volcanic flows
in Late Cretaceous time. Deep water sediments are interbedded. Basin
development began in Eocene time as certain areas rose above sea level and
started to erode. In addition, volcanism continued intermittently so that
much of the sedimentary section is made up of sediments that were derived
from volcanics. The same type of deposition has continued until recent
time, but three areas with shelf-type sediments are known--Bocas del Toro,
Chiriqui, and Darien.
36.       Panama has six prospective sedimentary basins, all open to the sea.
These are Bocas del Toro and Chiriqui to the west, the Azuero Peninsula and
the Isthmus Basin in Central Panama, the Tuira-Bazario (also called Darien)
and the Sambu-Garachine basins to the east.
37.       Offshore.  Most of Panama's oil prospective regions are offshore
in both the Atlantic and Pacific; the shelf area (0-200 m) has a surface of
57,000 km2 ant the prospective deep water area, about 78,000 km2, or a total
of 135,000 km offshore. So far only three wells have been drilled offshore,
all dry, giving an average of only one well per 26,000 km2 for the shelf area.



- 10 -
Petroleum Potential
38.       The depths of the basins onland and offshore are not adequately
known. Their stratigraphic sequence, however, shows that the prerequisites
for oil occur in Panama. Source rocks, which may have generated hydrocarbons,
as well as cap rocks (protective layers), are reported to occur in all basinal
areas. Potential reservoirs of good quality, however, tend to be scarce:
some sands of good porosity are reported in the Bocas del Toro and Darien
basins; and Miocene reefoidal limestones (Clarita Formation), of the type that
has been producing oil in the basin on the Caribbean coast of Colombia, were
identified in the Garachine, Darien, and Bocas del Toro basins, as well as on
the Pacific coast of Costa Rica nearby.
39.       Structures are known to exist in all these basins, but their
size is poorly defined and considerably more structural work is needed.
Several oil and gas seepages are known, numerous shows were encountered
during the drilling of wells, and token production has been recovered in
the Garachine well (south Darien). Therefore, although production has not
yet been established, there may be some oil potential in Panama--albeit
modest and of a high-risk type--given what is known about the country's
general geology.
Status of Petroleum Exploration
40.       History.  Oil exploration began in Panama before 1910 and continued
throughout the 1920's. During this first phase, nine wildcat wells were
drilled by Sinclair, Gulf Oil, and Texaco, totaling 27,995 feet. These wells
were all dry, generally with oil and gas shows; Garachine-2 had minor heavy
oil production. The second exploration effort lasted from 1948 to the early
1960s. About 19 wells, totaling over 83,750 ft, were drilled by Sinclair,
Union Oil, Dehli Petroleum, Champlin, Gulf Oil, and a domestic company--
Corporacion Petrolera. Five wells had gas shows and four had oil and gas
shows.
41.       The last explor-tion effort -- while small -- started in 1971 and is
still in process. Four wells, totaling 28,527 ft, were drilled by El Paso,
Texaco, and a domestic promotion company, Sossa Petroleum. Gas shows were
encountered in all these wells offshore (Corvus-l and Plaris-l in the Gulf of
Panama, and Marea-l in the Caribbean). The drilling depth has increased from
3,111 ft. during the initial exploration period to 4,408 ft. in the second,
finally reaching 7,132 ft. A seismic survey was run in 1957 for Champlin in
Bocas del Toro. The approximate amount of seismic lines which have been shot
and reported so far in Panama, all offshore, totalled about 4,300 km, of which
480 km were in the Gulf of Chiriqui, 1,500 km in the Gulf of Panama, more than
1,250 km in Bocas del Toro, and 850 km by Texaco along the Caribbean coast.
42.       Present Situation.  One domestic and one foreign oil company
presently hold acreage over 35 blocks. Sossa Petroleum, a Panamanian com-
pany, holds five small onshore blocks with a total of about 200,000 ha,
while Texaco, through five subsidiaries, has 30 offshore blocks with a
total of 2,462,413 ha, as detailed in the attached map and as shown below:



- 11 -
Year
Permit Holder                  No. of Blocks  Area in ha   Acquired    Expiring
Sossa Petroleum                     5 /a         200,000      July 1978   July 1985
Isthmus Exploration, Inc.           4 lb         499,509      May  1978   May  1985
Balboa Exploration, Inc.            8 /b         499,235      May  1978   May  1985
Caribbean Exploration, Inc.         7 /b         499,765      May  1978   May  1985
San Blas Exploration, Inc.          5 lb         497,588      June 1978   June 1985
Colon Exploration, Inc.             6 lb         466,316      June 1978   June 1985
/a   Land.
lb   Offshore.
The leased offshore area represents about 18 percent of the total prospective
offshore, and the land blocks about 2 percent of the prospective basins on
land. Texaco, which relinquished the block (Marea-l) in which a dry hole was
drilled in 1978, is keeping 30 blocks of its original 35. Its work obligations
and financial commitments, however, remain small.
43.        Current Plans.  With assistance provided through the proposed project,
the Government plans to formulate and carry out an exploration program designed
to induce foreign oil companies to make high risk investments associated with
exploratory drilling. If these plans materialize, it is likely that some four
to eight offshore wells and perhaps some six to ten onland wells would be
drilled in the next four to six years, thus making it possible to accelerate
exploration of Panama's petroleum potential.
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
44.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration and production rests by law
with the Directorate General for Mineral Resources (DGRM), under the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry (MICI). DGRM, which is also responsible for the
mining sector, is inadequately staffed to perform petroleum exploration and
development activities. Because of its commitment to accelerate petroleum
exploration, the Government has decided to give high priority to strengthening
DGRM and has already formed a unit within DGRM called Center for Petroleum
Investigations (CIP), which operates under the supervision of the director of
DGRM.
45.       The Government has also given high priority to passage of a suitable
law to attract oil companies and accelerate negotiations. Consequently, draft
petroleum legislation has been prepared by the Panamanian authorities with the
help of UNDP, and Bank staff have reviewed it at the request of the Government.
The draft was found generally adequate but required some modifications that
would better protect the interests of Panama while at the same time help
attract private oil companies and accelerate exploration.



- 12 -
46.       The draft law's shortcomings concern the lack of tax credit provi-
sions--which have implications that tend to discourage oil company investment
in Panama, thus possibly reducing benefits to the country; an over-rigid
provision concerning the length of exploration period; and the absence of a
provision requiring relinquishment of acreage under a timetable of oil
company work commitments. The Government has requested technical assistance,
through the proposed Bank loan, to improve the law and to help draw up model
contracts (paragraph 54(a)(i).
Government Energy Program and Bank Role
47.       The Government gives high priority to the potential discovery of
national oil reserves. The most promising areas--the Bocas del Toro basin,
the Sambu-Garachine basin, and the Darien region--have been inadequately
explored. The results of often sporadic efforts (one well/3,400 km of
prospective land and offshore areas combined), with no systematic preparation
(limited field work, absence of seismic surveys, airmagnetometric surveys to
locate the basement, and adequate marine surveys) are insufficient to assess
Panama's potential; however, a more thorough exploration effort that would
make use of all modern techniques properly integrated (airmag, seismic,
geochemistry, and photogeology) might help discover accumulations that, even
if low, would go a long way toward solving the country's petroleum requirements.
48.       To minimize the use of a substantial amount of scarce domestic
financial resources for petroleum exploration the Government plans, through
the proposed project, to pursue a policy of attracting international oil
companies to carry out the expensive, high-risk exploration work. It is
likely that private risk capital would be available for such exploration if,
on the basis of previously acquired data, sufficiently attractive prospects
are presented persuasively to potential bidders. The Government recognizes
the need for such an approach and has therefore requested Bank assistance
for DGRM in its petroleum exploration promotion efforts.
49.       On the energy planning front, the Government is now placing emphasis
on an integrated approach to the entire sector, including preparation of a
long-term energy strategy. Through the proposed loan, the Bank would con-
tribute to the strengthening of energy planning, establishment of an energy
conservation program, and a systematic investigation of energy alternatives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The Bank's recent energy sector review in Panama (Report No. 3109-PAN,
August 21, 1980) helped lay the groundwork for an integrated approach to the
sector as a whole, involving institution building for energy planning,
petroleum exploration promotion, energy conservation, and the investigation of
geothermal and coal resources. The proposed project was identified during the
visit of a Bank mission to Panama in April 1980, and was appraised in September
of the same year. Negotiations were held in Washington on January 28 to 30,
1981. The Government delegation was headed by Mr. Orlando Caicedo, Chief of
Investment Programming and Loan Negotiations of the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
51.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
discover petroleum by encouraging oil companies to explore the most promising
offshore and onshore areas in Panama, improve energy planning, and investigate
energy alternatives.
52.       The objectives of the exploration promotion component are to assist
in: (a) strengthening the technical capacity of DGRM in the areas of petroleum
geology and other aspects of petroleum exploration and production; (b) enabling
DGRM to accelerate petroleum exploration through offering acreage to oil com-
panies on a bidding basis; (c) training DGRM staff in the foregoing activities
and helping it to become capable of monitoring activities of operating companies;
and, (d) performing geophysical surveys required for further petroleum explora-
tion.
53.       The objectives of the energy planning component are to establish an
effective energy planning unit under the Technical Secretariat of CONADE and
to design a long-term energy strategy.
Project Description
54.       The project would consist of three components:
(a) Petroleum exploration promotion component
(i) support for exploration activities. Geological consultants
(106 man-months) would assist DGRM in compilation of data so as to facilitate
information access and analysis by the Government and interested oil companies.
The exploration consultants would help organize and interpret surface and sub-
surface information, undertake specialized studies in such areas as palynology,
micropaleontology, sedimentology, geochemical analyses, etc., if required; assist
with preparation of evaluation reports and bidding documents on areas to be
offered for exploration, evaluation of proposals by oil companies, contract
negotiations, monitoring of company work commitments, and training of staff;
and provide guidance on exploration strategy. An international legal firm in
cooperation with the exploration consultants would assist the Government in
reviewing the current petroleum law and provide assistance in making necessary
revisions to protect the interests of the country, while at the same time
providing adequate incentives to attract foreign oil companies. They would
also advise in drawing up a model exploration/production contract.
(ii) geophysical surveys. The project would include an airmagneto-
metric survey and seismic surveys (estimated at a combined cost of US$1.4
million) to be specifically defined with the assistance of the aforementioned
exploration consultants. It is generally not practicable at the outset of a
project to define, in full, the type and extent of geophysical surveys required
to design an exploration program that would attract substantial exploration
investment by private oil companies. Thus, it is likely that additional
seismic surveys, over and above those mentioned earlier, will be needed to
attract substantial private investment. The proposed loan would thus include



- 14 -
about US$1 million for this purpose even though the type of these surveys and
the areas to be covered remain to be defined. This relatively small quantity
of unspecified seismic surveys are considered reasonable to ensure that the
seismic program fulfills its objective of promoting accelerated exploration by
foreign oil companies at a minimum cost to the Government (see paragraph 60).
(iii) training. The project would provide short-course training for
key management personnel of DGRM and its professional staff in petroleum
exploration techniques, laboratory procedures and related activities through
seminars, on-the-job training, and intensive courses abroad.
(iv) computer processing. This component would provide for processing
of up to 1,000 line-km of previously acquired seismic profiles in order to
improve offshore geologic interpretations, and Landsat remote sensing imagery.
(v) equipment. Office and laboratory equipment and materials,
including storage files for geological data, technical books, magnetic tapes,
special copying machines for logs and profiles, and vehicles.
(b) Energy planning component
(i) development of the energy planning capabilities of the Technical
Secretariat/DET, with help of 30 man-months of consulting services, so it can
provide technical support and help CONADE exercise its functions. This assis-
tance would include training abroad and in-house training workshops; design of
an energy data management system; a review of energy pricing policies; a study
of energy aspects of government transportation policy and major investment
projects; and integration of the results through the formulation of a national
energy strategy.
(ii) assistance in establishing an energy library through acquisition
of books and materials.
(iii) assistance in establishing an energy conservation unit, including
consulting services (eight man-months), training and equipment. This assistance
would include training abroad, in-house training workshops, a series of pilot
energy audits for major sectors (commerce, transport, industry, hotels, resi-
dences, and thermal power generation), and the preparation of a conservation
strategy paper that will provide the basis for conservation planning and
policy in Panama.
(c) Coal and Geothermal Component
(i) investigation of coal potential through a preliminary field
investigation with a view to defining a coal mapping program in the Bocas del
Toro region and to help carry out such a program, which would include five
man-months of consulting services. Although available information indicates
that the aforementioned mapping will be required, a final decision will depend
on the findings of the coal specialist who would supervise a preliminary field
survey.



- 15 -
(ii) geothermal studies consisting of an electric resistivity
survey (a geophysical study) of the Cerro Pando site and completion of a
survey of 23 additional sites. These activities would entail four man-months'
services of consultants who would assist in recommending selection of three or
four of these sites for geophysical surveys to be also financed under the
proposed loan.
Cost Estimates
55.       The total cost of the project (which is exempt from duties and taxes)
is estimated at US$8 million, including contingencies of about US$1.3 million
equivalent, or about 19.8 percent of the baseline cost estimate.  Foreign
price contingencies were calculated assuming price increases of 9 percent for
1981, 8 percent for 1982, and 7 percent for 1983. Local price contingencies
were calculated at 13 percent for 1981 and 10 percent thereafter. Physical
contingencies were calculated at about 8 percent for all proiect components
because of uncertainties concerning the precise quantities of work required,
and the conditional nature of the coal mapping and parts of the geothermal
component.
56.       The average man-month cost of internationally-recruited consultants
has been estimated at US$14,000 per man-month, including travel, subsistence
and overhead. This amount is reasonable, taking into account the high level
of expertise required and salaries prevailing in the petroleum industry--which
accounts for a large part of the consulting services required. A distribution
of the various component costs is shown in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this Report.
57.       The proposed loan of US$6.5 million.would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project, or about 81 percent of the total cost. Local costs
totaling about US$1.5 million equivalent, would be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation
58.       IRHE, whose Department of Energy and Tariffs has been designated to
carry out the functions of Technical Secretariat to CONADE, would also act
as overall project coordinator and administering agency for the proposed loan,
which would be made to the Government. In this capacity, IRHE would provide
the benefit of its experience as borrower in the case of five Bank loans for
electric power. At the same time, it would gain experience in shaping and
monitoring sector-wide policies in the energy field. IRHE, in its capacity
as executing agency of CONADE, would also implement the energy planning and
geothermal study component, while DGRM would carry out the petroleum exploration
promotion and coal survey activities.
59.       With respect to the energy planning component, progress on speci-
fic activities and studies would be monitored by the Bank through review
of periodic reports of the Technical Secretariat/DET (paragraph 67) and Bank
supervision missions.



- 16 -
60.       The Government has agreed that the Technical Secretariat/DET Pnd
DGRM would be adequately staffed to execute the project and provide nec_; sary
counterpart personnel to the foreign experts (Sections 3.01 and 3.02(b) of the
Loan Agreement). Not later than 60 days after completion of the legal consul-
tant's review of the petroleum legislation and model contracts, the Government
would send to the Bank for comments the conclusions of the review (Section,
3.05(a) of the Loan Agreement). The airmag and the seismic surveys would be
carried out by specialized contractors under the supervision of DGRM and its
exploration consultants. In this connection, the Government has agreed that
before proceeding with the program for seismic surveys, DGRM would present to
the Bank, no later than November 30, 1981, a plan for the initial phase of
such program and on completion of that phase, present to the Bank the plan for
the complementary phase of the program (Section 3.05(b) of the Loan Agreement).
DGRM is expected to sell some of the data collected (in particular seismic
data and a related report prepared by the consultants during project implemen-
tation) to interested oil companies. The proceeds of these sales would be
placed in a special account and, until December 31, 1986, used exclusively for
surveys and studies in the energy sector (Section 3.03(b)(ii) of the Loan
Agreement).
61.       Disbursements for the coal mapping program in the Bocas del Toro
region would not take place unless DGRM provides the Bank with a satisfactory
technical and economic justification for such mapping (Schedule 1, paragraph
4(b) of the Loan Agreement). Loan proceeds would not be disbursed for geo-
physical studies on geothermal sites other than Cerro Pando unless IRHE
provides a satisfactory technical and economic justification for such studies
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the Loan Agreement).
62.       The Technical Secretariat of CONADE would complete a preliminary
long-term energy strategy and an energy pricing study by December 31, 1982,
and promptly thereafter present them to the Bank for comment (Section 3.05(c)
of the Loan Agreement).
63.       With the agreement of the Bank, DGRM expects to employ exploration
consultants, legal consultants, and a coal consultant in the first quarter
of this year. Similarly, on behalf of the Technical Secretariat/DET, IRHE
expects to employ an energy planning consultant during the same period. Draft
terms of reference for additional consultants in energy planning and energy
conservation, were reviewed and the relevant consultants are expected to be
employed by mid-1981.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
64.       The Government plans to accelerate exploration by granting permits
to petroleum companies by about December 1982. Accordingly, as indicated in
paragraph 63 above, DGRM plan to contract exploration and legal consultants
provided under the project in the near future. For this reason, and to
accelerate the work of the other consultants mentioned in paragraph 63, above,
advance contracting for about US$1.0 million and retroactive financing in the
order of US$300,000 are recommended to cover expenditures by DGRM and IRHE
after January 1, 1981 and before loan signature (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(a) of
the Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement
65.       Consultants would be selected with qualifications and terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The seismic surveys, estimated at
about US$1.5 million, would be carried out through contracts awarded under
international competitive bidding. The airmag survey, which would precede
the land seismic survey and hence should begin as rapidly as possible, would
be undertaken by a specialized firm selected by limited international tender-
ing. The relatively small quantities of equipment, materials, and the few
vehicles required for the separate components of the project (about US$25,000
for laboratory equipment, US$165,000 for items for the energy planning unit
and energy library, and US$150,000 for energy conservation activities) would
be procured through limited international or local tendering in accordance
with normal Government practice, which is satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
66.       Disbursements would be made over a period of about three years to
cover 100 percent of expenditures for consultants' services, training and
imported equipment, and 10 percent of locally procured office and laboratory
equipment, which represents the estimated foreign exchange component. Disburse-
ments would be fully documented.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
67.       DGRM and the Technical Secretariat/DET would keep separate project
accounts and would send audit reports on such accounts to the Bank. DGRM
and the Technical Secretariat/DET would also submit quarterly and annual
reports on project implementation in a format acceptable to the Bank. They
would also prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than six months after the
Closing Date, a Project Completion Report.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       The primary benefit from the project would be the attraction of
private capital investment in high-risk petroleum exploration on terms favor-
able to Panama. The risk associated with the exploration promotion component
is that even if satisfactory data are acquired, the leads uncovered might not
be sufficiently attractive to spur widespread industry interest. In any case,
given current energy market conditions and Panama's urgent need to assess its
petroleum potential, the advantages of proceeding with this work outweigh the
risks associated with it.
69.       The main benefits from investigations of coal and geothermal re-
sources would be to further the Government's efforts to develop and diversify
Panama's indigenous energy resources. The main risk would be that the
coal occurrences and geothermal resources would be of insufficient quality or
magnitude to make development feasible. Given the contribution that a rela-
tively small amount of additional energy could make in helping fill Panama's
total energy needs in light of current and prospective energy market conditions,
the cost (about US$850,000) of undertaking these activities would be a risk
well worth taking.



- 18 -
70.       The energy planning component would provide the Technical Secretariat
of CONADE with the capacity to prepare a comprehensive energy plan, assess
development possibilities, undertake energy conservation measures, and advise
the Government on energy policies. In view of the increasingly serious drain
on resources arising from oil imports, the development of effective demand
management options and promotion of energy alternatives to oil are important
although unquantifiable benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Panama and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. Conditions of disbursement
would be: (i) for the coal mapping component that DGRM provides the Bank with
a satisfactory technical and economic justification for such mapping, and
(ii) for geophysical studies on geothermal sites other than Cerro Pando that
IRHE provide the Bank with a satisfactory technical and economic justification
for such studies.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 25, 1981



Annex I
Page 1 of 6
rABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL ItDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAILA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGMTEI A'EPRACI
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             75. 7
AGRLCULTURAL      17.2                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDIE INrOMF
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTLHATF C    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBFAD          rL'POPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 330.0       710.0    1350.0                  1562.9                  2749.5
ENERGY CONSUIIPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALEN.'    448.0       683.0    991.0                   1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     1. 1         1.5      1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 41.3       47.7       53.0                   63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      14.0        20.0      24.0                    28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. KH. AGRICiLTURAL LAND     76.0       89.0    105.0                     81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.7        43.9      40. 7                   41.4                     30.6
15-64 YES.                        52.3        52.4      55.3                    54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.0         3.7       4.0                     3.9                      9.2
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8        2.9       2.6                     2.7                      1.6
URBAN                             4.4          4.4      4. 1                    4. 1                     3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    41.0        37.0      31.0                    34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATE RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10.0        8.0       6.0                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.8         2.8       2.5                     2.5                      1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       .-         *-       15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      44. 0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         88.0        94.0    104.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  101.0       106.0    101.0                   107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         58.0        61.0      61.0                    65.6                     91.0
OF WEICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       26.0        30.0     32.0                    33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     9.6         6.0       3.0                     8.4                      4. 3
HEALTE
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   62.0        66.0      70.0                    63. 1                    67. 8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PEE
THOUSAND)                          90.0        53.0      47.0                    66.5                     55.Q
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               -         70. 0     79.0                   65.9
URBAN                              *         98.0      93. 0                   80.4
RURAL                              *         43.0      63.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *         79. 7     87.8                    62.3
URBAN                              ..        92.5      97.1                    79.4
RULRAL                             ..        68.2      78.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2700.0      1550.0   1259.0                   1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NMRSING PERSON    3460. 0k    1420.0   1452.0                   1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2S0.0       327.0    258.0                    480.3                    289. 7
URBAN                                        176.0
RURAL                              ..      1570.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8ED          ..        26.0      21.0                      ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4. 7        4.9
URBAN                             4.4          ..
RURAL                             4.9          ..
AVERAGE NHIBER OF PERSONS PER P.00M
TOTAL                             2.4         2.2        ..                      ..                       ..
URBAN                             2.1         1.8
RURAL                             2.6         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            44. 0       52.0
URBAN                             82. 7      90.4
RURAL                            11.0        16.0



-20 -                                       Annex I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YAUAMA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAqES
- MoST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLF INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EIROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0        103.0      86.0                      99.7                      105.9
MALE                  98.0        107.0       88.0                    101.0                      109.3
FEtALE                94.0        100.0      94.0                      99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  29.0         40.0     115.0  /d                  34.4                       64.0
MALE                  26.0         38.0      107.0   -                 33.5                       71.1
FEeALE                31.0         42.0      122.0                     34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  28.0           32.0      30.0                      38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         27.0      30.0                      30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                           23.0         21.0      23.0                      14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         73.0         78.0         ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0        32.0       39. 7                     43. 0                      84. 6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                         151.0        158.0     157.0                     245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.0        97.0      108.0                      84.2                      11P.5
NEWSPAPER ( DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         92.0      79.0                      63.3                       93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDAtlCE PER CAPITA   ..           4.8 e          *-                                              5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR ?ORCE (THOUSANDS)        358.9        501.2     626.1
FeMALE (PERCENT)                    21.2         25.9      26.0                      22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               50.9         41.6      35.0                      37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.7         16. 1     18.3                      23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.1         34.0       33.8                     31.5                       40.9
MALE                                  51.1         49.4       49.1                     48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                                14.3         17.9      17.8                      14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.4        1.3                      1.4                        1.0
INCOfE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         17.8
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    ..           52. 7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          2.1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS       ..         9.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     349.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      183:0                     190.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      442. 0                    474. 0
RURAL                                 ..          .,      287.0                     332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       21.D 
RURAL                                 ..          ..       30.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on vailability of data and Is not unlforn.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita Us for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
/d The primary and secondary school enrollment ratios in 1978 are respectively
too low and too high, since a partial change to eight-year "basic schools"
allocated too many students from the primary to secondary track. The
data are now being adjusted to reflect the new system.
October 1980



- 21-
Annex I
Page 3 of 6
ErPIMMrOttt OF SOCIAL. INDICATORS
Nor..:  Althou,gh the d.ta are drov  froo  sour.. S-eonly judged tha eat athOittoIlv  ted reliable.  it should also be aod t1hat  ft,, sty ra  ho islt-
valoollcoearhl  hesoc  f cs ah        o  ottlArAf sd  d      iteitt-  ted  -eaept  used by differeot  -outri.. L. .e11.ti.g  t he d.Og.  Tile dtt. se   v
cthl.lee, -..fv   o  ocrb  odr  of a.titd., ludlo-t  trea, d                                         -J..tre  orao   ee  diff-r-te   barse.-vvei
The  efeeou  goupeste  1)  f,.s  ae'y800 ofhOn  subj ..t cous. t asd (2) Al..I                ...tr   sou  Wto .-dl- tot  .       teh-    thee the .onoly p-,u
sool-oulurslffiotte).   i  onerefosecegroP date the nt..eepopatt.1   vIShtod  rItthetit -ew   for *th leIIotor  .04 sho-  oty wh..
i.t.  halff   rl   outie  wagru   a  date I          for tht to       o.Siare tho   PlIereg  Of raa        -s sos t the.dloator. depend. -e th. eilabLlity of
dta sod Ie oat onif ore. ce-i.  lo  be eo.riesd Is  ssle   av               e  ofon  tediot-r ts aeeh-   Tho..  -vrt.  are .ely ...u  is1 I opais   he  -eI-
Of one Iedi-OtOoaers  ese   nb rh oetr  md                   ..artr  ..euV..
IOUID AOLd (thou.-d eq.d.)                                                                                D.ueiO   c   Oranse-fpudatte  dtaltet toy e r05p_eLttti    711,
Total - Tot.1 noto.  re  -omollee lead so   td                                                 ,,Jd-uer.ehie  Ottlif ted tryt a  "iO.1  lbhal at oeirority isoal.
Aerrulurl -teOato  f ... tIOut-elt   used teepoarly or perusoair                      otlt    Per Stoele Pe...- - Poaaedirudod hy e.0-e Of ool-eilss
or crope, patwurse, erht te  birth.b   erdeso 00 00 It  fello; 1977 data.                  eaa tad feesle gradual.... euoe  pro        -lot.,. sed ...sette   er-t
Peeiete  se Ooota  td    toal  uho. d          rte.i   Prslai (tenl.
li? 10  AIAIO             itpe   aisetssa   rroooete  ptk e5.va.I-                              ut;e   e   otl   ile   ytheir raet,naerOf hasiltel beds
colre   b  eaa  saIoiuee.    d a  W-ld Ot    lt  (1977-i9 boteo.); 190                   -eel"I.l L. peblit sd prirste g-.os  sd eptaisdbaillted Oe
1970, ted  lO979dete.                                                                         totilitorA. c, ne.        MasPiwol  -r  eatalb-ihs.  poeaatl  staffed
by a  lesa  se  pbyelrls.  Istahtis-te  prew,dia  p tl"eoLlyovsds
EMiff CoISUeP1Ov  PEI CAPITA -. A--Ia  o-.apnto  of ool          rlW  snagy (veal               oasonve  IeLoded.  More hospitals.  oe.e.  -Isted   heat l  s.d dr
td ees.p-Oelss,             S.atla  sad oydto-, eooea  sad  gate   1a-t5-              oet  OP  pos.aely  taffad by P phy.toila  (ths  by a ead-Lo   -aelst.
toot b1 Llor.a- Of tel qI       oletpar vapita; 1060, 1070. ae  1070                    ton.  dieU.. er..) ebia  Offor ie --patt   tdt                  sad P-1ede
dat.                                                                                          ife"'d  -S.e Of edalfeALLltIs.  For e.tnuLetlea  peso....ub- 6.9-
tale  -lased   WW   prleetpl ge-re  s.d sPeetitad boePLIta. -d etra
POPULATIOI AlSO VITAL STATISTICS                                                                hoopitals Iotet on rta     hoaptta. -d  "iel s.-4          aeeyO...
Total P.,"l.tt.  814d-Year leiLone  - he Of Joly' i; 1060. 1970. s.d 1078                   Adeleio.J   -e Ifotto  Med - TOta   -b-e Of eiLs t. t  or diathaog
4art.                                                                                       tref   eeir    dilided by rho e,br Of bsda.
frbafPreuLaitlsrtofou   - &atIo Of urba  to totl p.Pustion;
dtfsot dafloitoe  Of .oeaarassa  bdvtrtetilty Of d.ta                                  M
19601tisWtOI  tl,  a  1078 dat.AeseOt.                                                        o  foeedCrroarth-tIald) - total  uraa  sAd  -,a-
ttlpopulatio  by  S. sad e-  sad their e-tdis  ed f ... licl' Iraeea             .   the avbld fet ... tialtiOl Perp....
Poj)stei_ 9-eet.r. fot  -rtl"ty rat-  tap .Of three (stoe n                            Aver-e tb., Of eeeus  a    -o    - tote.]. abs..ad toaZ.              Aego  ia
lee.h  a  xersye   lrotoeas   5hcatr  aptrp                            ts               e   fproaprr ot .10  l  ob..b-   ad rura  onopiadouraiet
leve. eedf.sL. lIfe'       peseyesllea t 77.5 y-r.  The P....                            doslIIog, rspotrl.Pslig                    Ied.  -es-pa.  trtooe 
st-r  for fertIlty Iare also bar  Ihee  I-eL . ..... .i  d.elise I0                       saiad pr.
.trtiity soodiea to loin  10.1 ae  peat fslly 7lvla    eroas-.                         A... Iee  ttloret   teOof d-ellloo) -  totl. orbat sad rtatl 
tahvoay1  vhea  _jeLgeed ore Of theOlIt. ceebistion   Of eartollty                InvalOa.    lliate eith eeeityil li-Olg qsatee-petstg
Irslotryvoolcio   -loatelotoypoultlr  ter  Is on grtvh  i.1.0
che bioth Iats It oqoal to thiedesth rae,sd alea the ago 'trtOteer-                    UCATIO.
ea.   o   hte.Tio Is tbhared osly stoat fertili't  o-tta  teaLis  to         Addl...   trI . .sLP.t utat..
tho repl_o     t le-e  Of u-,t vet rayedootlos ra.  o.   -.o  OSaertI                    Pla,  0 1 --rated  sa.                  fs.... - Gree  total  red      fsat.
Of flar_ loaitself sealy.  The  -totonay pep,thlsv  sIte                                    enrollnt: Of .11 oges et  he pot,sar  level a.Ofrelg.atreot
etiatted 00tho beat,  f the proJected    aetetOe f the Pepeltils                            prosr  ehl-gapoptI.aiaaa  Onemelp tsotade  eblIdos  as  h-II
Is the yar 7000.  ad rho rot  of fetU     of feotlit  rate to reyls-                       year  bat sd4eate  for dttf-oo.t lsathe of Peler.           attingfor
e   -re.                                                                               uotftie  60th s.vra   d-ttisa   - lls.t -sy s.eea   tDO p,-tst
Te . ttI.O6a       Letai. i  reteba   - The Yoa  vh.eaittyppaatsie    -s  p"Ups are bab  o  sar  lbs off tafa  .00.  .ge.
als  a  hos   -ohed.                                                                   Oaoe.das  Pbhol-toa.elsdfal  -Cvdathvesessy
Pousto  oeait,                                                                              edsetis  . " Maerse   eaefu   et  of eppood poeay  atFaf.-;
Nid-year pepoltian p.o PROAsa  Wilata  (100 h--sra) Of                         Pre,ide   eS-a]  -eafvt.o  teab.r tl.Mafag leaItonatoe  ton pvf.
tots, are..                                                       ossally o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 12 re 17 yoeOf ago; tarrePoed-I-e     Atre .se  9eatr11t
Per .. he. erlelar    ed - i..tattd at  h-r  for agIrltoral ltd                                  .o
Po.. "tion  3s tnrr  (eo.l ChLIds._ (0-lu y.rf   oki.9-65  (IS..                                leld   ahle.idara.o   te   rss   bo    pol   Adot-
lana.; 10601. 170.   ~ I.1078dt5;.t                                                         Pees- .ths  rai      rtry.a1etdey-Ttletst   seld OS
Psealtto  Ctut  Mte (ne=tet -uba    Aes-al goveh omea Of -b-a Pop-                      Ad.lt                               LIea,roef.oso     t-re    adoe  labIa to read  ad -iut.)
lati-n  for 1950-60. 1060-70. sod  907G- 73.                                                    A sPer.,   g    f  aa   dl pepeltlo    ege  1O y-e  tadev.
Crude Mirth A.ta (trtetad                a   lIr  hirthe Per theussd Of aid-"et
Crud Deah Mo.. (7en  thu"ad    AOeIdeaths per thoes    Of sdd-.yea                           ee.o  C-r  Coer thosasd saeeLao1     - Peoceago  oa.ti-                    ae
paotl.;106  10701, sAd 1970 das.                                                    tr   ata    ..  htsgtptoa;ease    a.ea                             srt   a
loue MOroeotse   ats- Aeoss f        -arat  aaae. a flo    eAll bea  Is            do. vh.la
bet --.,aL  ryoioiepeovd If eb. ~sli-oe   "rs-e  ag5-ooOf it f'                           sadi. gtie    (ea  thbutd go,elatirl) - All type. Of rseI-.e tfn rod
tility rae;-    aal  fire-year   reg.&Iodfa  In 1060. 1970, a.              07              breadoatt  so gi-rI rubltopothste  ofIpynlaus   -aed-  -it-
elI esorlsd .me  Is  in  5~~ 0ts~r.                                      isearal deMlie pe  tbooos.dpelno;aldss.i.adTtttrr
F    O0ff MmIIa                                                                            Isb oa-. W    .trin-tcs end("    tndytr  who.1 tigl-Trei    at TV1 eot  ret  sdof net
L.                                                            '*Zb~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.esr   ioltio .  Coo d th1:adooltin      ti   h     TVrtairt-
1040 o  fod Fedotio  pe  islta(100-7-tO) -ted. o  pe  saitasinI        I.etlo dily .Mdoveral            A istaen t  teeppor f Tela t as L.rfdsl  t.
orouoio  o  al  oa  rLtl.         Prdvuo  er.]     ."e sad fsed sad                  1iooss  derted proesrily so oe-sd1M  te-ra  A-ee   It ie eanidotad
ieonoaet  roa  bsoin.  Ca.diteevov-    prOsay sooe (S.. sarei                          te toe 'daily' it it appear. at lsest four tIe.. a fh.
_ati_al .0.....  rdu-o  prioe ovIghl; 1961-65, 1970. .4 1978 dat..                           O     bl     i.
rev  -iet. tees Of veols(Oarsa  of  roisstf- Csted ft-.                                      n   shl    i
_lary ootoetOf .e. foo   uete  vlel 10  rotonr  per -pita                            LAM~g  ,.Co
Per day.  A-aOlbl. eupolla  oteprie  dati. Prodsotiea  ispoote I...                    Tes  ao   er.(bnsedl-EesltlyeOr  pres   ebii
saoc_t    adit    ge ;     orh      e  eapols  era.elafed    od.                          rmedtro.s.   5             "o  bet P=ildina                           Alltr..avs.s   t.
_oite   used IO food preeio.4sdlestI  dI.ltihleto.  Equir-                            Defifttloe   I0 eei-.  osaelaa arene  oseparbh               1060. 1070ne
sae    a. asuatt    by' FtO b.Ase   heilsot   ad. for ee-& acti-                    107  dt-
ouysdhelth oo 4eidro s.8       r         Isettl  ar to .body ovighe  agO          !jy1s         s   -    el  labor fares a, perrataga Of tet.l 1.60  farro.
sde d.letluib-m  Of ppain.od e11iosid  10 OtOta    o f             eot  Ot             rler         000      - ao  f"rro    I.-foIs. to-tot. boeleg -d
hovasbel  ieee]; IMl-65, 1970. sa  1977 da-.fisbiag a  parreane. Of toa  labo  tZr_; 1060, 1970 ed 1078 d.t..
retvaira  -"I, Of rooti]. (-tm  oa  dy) - Prot.ia aretea  at Par eai"                  Ised e,(ert          - Lsb-  tone. ho edals.oasntos    s.stt
sa   n Otof food per day.  Not 0p017 Of food L.ds teed as 5h5n   M-                sd eleatritiy. rvt-  ad gsa spss.q    Of tesl Isb.. forte; 1080.
f_r.et   tonal  roetia   etabli.hd by USDA pr-vld  for *IuA_                       1070       107.. t
.11ono.  Of 60 grin  at toal pretea ron day-  20 gem-  Of AsIsa                d~       OetciaIa  ae  trea)-  o                . ala, ted fs.           - PeoutoiPeoM    o
pb proaa  o f ChicO ID are     heeId hoais  posa   Tht55  ttad                        eotivity r.---  Are t.t".       ttta,al.td   f-aI.t la"`c forc  a
ted  ss lsa  t tht-   s  of=  O gesof75S-O     . tosa     ...el  sad -A    oe  f       prttee   fttl  aesdPl pplt.   fa1s ete ti-ely;
atse  posl  -atsergsfo  te  vld  psp.d by 'AD Is lbs Thied                       1980. 1970. to  1975 data.  Thos  s . flWe porttiipaotsa re.,- fef bltu
W-ord'FooM'orey  l9Nt-65. 107 Vatd :971 data                                              ag-s   tosr   fespplto.sdlv   Osted.  A f. eati-
Per ..plt. ereeI  sno    fres sa-le  ed oulee- P-etI. euppiy af food 45-                    et,eefe   ainlner
rire   fro_ 5.01  sod puts.. Is  rS.. oar day; 1061-A5, 1970 s-. 1907 dana.   Itat  Oeeed.ry ot  - Motto Of  -oaai.od.e 15 esd h5 sad   a
Chld _se  1_-dC  Oetslt, Eats (ear tbssd7  -  .."Ia ds...bo per thaussd in               to  h totlit     fr.
ago group 1-4 roo., to oildldr    in thIs ass erou; far  -e   donsloplg ti-
telee Oats devOtd fre lifn tslat; 1960. 1970 s.d 197T dat..                            l.at  olrmzu't
PeraOof Pr io...  ow.m   (both In   -hbtd  id    - tised  by nobe..
LLf.  -t 5IllL(l_   Al-".   .b..   f '-       Ofersat  nob..  0 prosa. Oere20                                     0Meest   o  poorat 40 pleesa
eebrb 916.107ea  197   ae
lafotOooeltyMor  (otthoetoodl   A.t.al deaths Of il,f-st   ad.r  -v Yna            ...ay MTAGay   iRUS
Of age per tbostdlr 1'bits                                                                MotatdAbout   srro  em                 Is   (US$erooi.  -  reed roOs-
Ooreee   .f.Ossrbootet  f euootonl-  otl. abat. 5d rura  -                       Absaloa P,verTy Iaoe  1-01 I. thee tea                lee   eveei-a 1Is
AI oI...             tse.ae. aIual   0hresohe   ae   o  ae                                   orltndY   dqae   itpo   tsll  nfo fqsesasi   n
oatr.rpl   (oouda  tnatd  araonseereoronreaedtou  scOss.aaed         Abf-ahs
-h aa '.rossot I f     ayl  the  tlhe bottNltegor hmde  ofithe ho-1 el.)aa, -mulattP.","l ISeaOe L-.ta                                  so     ae  Cat.C      r,
detbar, toe.s    dOrfotsaoprto  tedy  sfevla   h                                        sdoue     f.s.   fpbuoea  (rs-odrua).6   rs"htlt  ps"
Ise_y._Ionote aOt--" .                                                                      ________
rural -Mosbetf peopl  (lose, eths.  sod crel) esoedibysaor.'
fiersea  so  torrsatee   of          1-.1-'0                 f  thirreysrie  e  lttes                         OfeO  die-Itslt- esd             I Matiles fOlvitos       -
r.-ldsay  boolwd     -the voIarl. -l         -     ffpes. wth. or" Iitoe   n-..te -_.l0dtysa-PrbP-a                                                           arr
of   issattt  se  ratevear  yaee-boe   sytm  or  Oft.                  I          =       'tho 0a0 Of                           Oc, ..  f   1=tober104
ci   rii.  o Ziao   Iooely  htthea.  h?                                                                                       t



Population    : 1.826 million (mid-1978)                                                                                                                  Annex I
GNP Per Capita- US$1,350 (1979)                                                                                                                           Page 4 of 6
- 22 -
PAAIA - 1COl6tIC IIDIA7T
Amount                                                            Annual ro.cth Rates (S)
(million US$ at
Idi-ctor                 current prices)                             Actual                  stimatee                             Prolected
1975                       197S      197'     0877 1T1 979                       1980     19M1      1982     19N3      1954      1955     VOF
NArIONAL ACCOUNTS /c
Gross Do-estic Product a       1.934.2                        o.6      -0.3      3.4       3.7             4.9       5.3      5.1       5.0      4.4       4.2      4.2       3.0
Agrioulture                     334.6                       4.6      -0.9      7.8      -O.6            -1.4      2.5       2.6       2.7      2.8       2.8      2.6       2.6
Industry                       414.b                       -5.6    -13.1       0.8      -0.1             5.2      7.0       6.0      5.5       5.5      5.8       6.C       0.3
Services                     1,185.2                        1.9      4.2       3.0       6.0             6.4      5.5       5.5      5.3       4.5      4 i,      4 C       5.0
Consucption                     1,456.9                      -5.0      -4.8      12.8      1.3             6.1       5.2      4.4       4.3      3.8       3.8      3.8       4.9
Gross Inves-M.ent                507.9                        10.0      4.0   -25.3       28.5             1.9      2.7       5.0      6.3       6.2       6.2      6.1       9.4
Exports of GNFS                  851.5                         1.4      5.0       7.2     -8.8             0.5      3.3       C.1      0.6       2.0       1.9      2.3        .;
Imports of GN08                  992.1                       -          -.2  1.6  3.4      3.4             1.0   -14.3       -2.5     -1.2      -0.6      1.0      iiL    ]LA
Oross National Sa-iogs           b4S.5                       61.4      -2.4    -30.0      19.2            21.6     17.8      14.2      8.8       9.5      6.0       6.7       3.7
PhICEs
GDP Deflator                                                  4.7       4.0       4.0      4.2            11.0      13.2     10.4       9.0       8.0      7.0       6.7
bxchaoge Rate                                                 T7        T.      TEU       TEU              = i5              77         1.0      1.D0     T        -1.
Share of GDP at Market Prices (8)                                Average Annual Increase (S)
(at current prices) Ao                                     (at constant 1940 prices)
1960     1970     1975  /c     1980    '                      1980-70    1970-75    1975-83    1980-85    1985-90
Gross Domestic Product           100.0    10.0    l00.0    lO.0    100.0    100.0                  8.0        4.9         3.3        4.5         5.D
Agriculture                     23.3      19.4     17.3       15.0      13.5     11.7             5.3        2.7         1.3        2.7         2.0
Industry                        18.5      21.8     21.41      17.0     17.4      17.0            9.1         3.0        -1.5        5.8         h.5
Services                        58.1      58.8     61.3       67.6     69.1      71.3            8.5         6.3         4.8        0.5         5.7
Consumption                        88.9     76.9      75.8      77.8      76.0     76.0             7.0        3.9         3.7         3.5         -.5
Gross Investment                  16.3      26.4      31.0      22.5      25.0     25.0            13.6        5.1         1.8         6.4        5.5
Exports CNFS                       30.6     37.3    54.0        34.0      31.2     17.0             9.8         3.8       -1.0         1.4        3.0
Imports G0FS                      35.9      43.6     51.3       42.2      17.6     D0.0            10.3        2.1         4.4        1.1         5.0
Gross National Savings              8.1     20.5     23.2       115.5    18.6      22.0            15.6        12.4       -5.4        9.8         0.9
As % of GDP
1960     1970       1975     1980
PUBLIC FINANCE (Public Sector)
Current Revnues                             16.1     21.1       29.0      35.1
Current Expenditures                        14,9     18.9       26.0      12.3
Corrent Surplus (-3 or deficit (.            1.2      2.2        3.0      2.8
CaGital Expenditure                          3.7       6.6      13.2       9.2
Foreign Finanoing                            1.9       3.7       9.8       7.7
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1S85-90
OTHER INDICATCRS
GNP ?rooth Rate (S)                            8.0         5.2         3.7        4.5        5.0
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (8)                 5.0         2.4        0.7         2.0        2.6
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (W)-            --          --          --         1.9        1.9
ICOR                                           2.4         5.4        6.4         5.1        5.O
Marginal Sa-ings Rate                          0.23        o.53       -0.28       7.38       0.29
Import Elasticity                              1.29        0.53      -1.33        0.28 dt    3.9
/a  At  arrket prices/ components are expressed at market prices  sot of factor coat.
fb  Projected years at constant prices (1980-1990).
/C  G-roth r-tes ar-  for GDP in 1960 prites.
3d 0.7 for 1981-85; the loner 1980-85 rate steaa f-om fall in ipPorts espected in 1980 after he-vy build up of stoc-k in 1979.
/e  Oil importa growth rats.
Octotbr 1980



Annex I
Popullation    1  1.826 million (mid_1978)                                                  - 23 -                                                        Page 5 of 6
GIIP Per Capita.   US$1.350 (1979)
PAN424  - 7UEZkN4L 7S41E
Amount                                                          knsAnl Growth Rate. (S)
(million US$ at                                                     (at conSta-t 1977 prices)
Indicator                current Pricea)                     Actual.                                                               1Fro1.cte19
1975           19T5       1976       1977                          197        1980       19B1      1f 2        93        1984      1965       1398
E1TEhRL ITIADE
Merchandise Excorts                   267.3        .42.0      -19.3        9.4       -1.7                -6.6      10.7        3.6        3.8       4.5        5.0       4.8        4.s
Primary                             134.3        .36.9       10.3        8.0        2.3              -12..       18.6        3.7        3.0       3.4        3.9       3.3
Mwanufactures .nd nther             133.0        .47.6       67.8       10.2      10.6                 12.3       6.1        7.2       8.8        9.5        9.8      10.0        :.4
lerchandise Imports                   815.6        .11.6      -11.1       -4.1        5.8                 3.1     -14.3        2.3        2.7       3.0        3.2        3.3       1.1
Food                                59.7         ,29.5       18.5       38.1        8.5                 4.6       4.5        4.4       4.4        4.6       4.$        .-.4.
Petrolenm                          334.5         .20.6      -24.7       -9.1     -19.6               -21.0      -13.9       -5.0      -3.4       -2.4       -1.9      -1.4
Machinery and Equipment             156.6        .15.2        6.9      -19.4.      21.0                27.9     -30.9        4.0        3.9       3.8        4.2       2.1        4..
Manufactures                        176.9        -11.7        8.7       -3.2       17.1 °4.L                      3.6        3.6        3.6       3.6        3.6       3.b
R.w Htorial.                        87.9         .23.5      -35.0       24.1       28.1                 5.9       4.8        b.9       4.8        4.8        4.8       4.8
P~hICES
Export ?rice Index                                   93.2      95.3    100.0        104.0               116.1     128.9      140.9     155.2      168.5      183.9    23)0.3      21
Import Price Index                                  92.5       96.8      100.0     135.8               132.4      161.0      178.5     195.7      211.4     228.3      2a5.9      ?-i.l
Terms of Trade Index                                100.8      98.5      100.0       98.3                87.7      00.1       78.9       79.3      79.7       80.6      81.$ 
Composition of Nerchandise Trade (.)                               ic-erage Annual Increase (%)
(t current prices)                                        (at constant 1977 prices)
195O     1970     1975      19p 0     1965     1990          1950-70    1970-75    1975-90    19c0-H5    1995-90
Exports                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0                n.e.       n.e.        -3.5         1.3        4.5
Primary                   73.9      74.2     50.2      $6.5    S5.9       65.6                                    4.9         3.5        2.2
Nawf-c.ren                26.1       6.0     14.6      24.7     29.1      32.0                                   19.5         9.1       10.0
Isc-orto                   0310.    130.1)  lO.9.0    130.0    100.0    100.0               n.a.       0.-.        -3.h         2.9         3.8
Food                      714.7      8.5      7.3       8.3      7.2       7.0                                   14.1         4.5        4.0
Petroleum                  9.9      19.')    41.7      28.8     26.1      25.1                                  -19.9        -3.0         3.2
Hachinery and Equin,nent  22.1      27.5     19.2      20.4     22.0      22.0                                   -1.$         4.0        4.0
Others                    53.3     45.0      32.5      42.5     44.7      46.0                                    4.8         4.0        4.8
Sham, of Trad, with                   Share of Trade with                          Share of Tr.de with
Industrial Countries 17.1             Decalopimp Co,ntoie. (0.                Capital Surplu. Oil Enporter. (7.)
1960      1970       1975              960      1978       1975                   1960        1970     1975
lIRiCTOh Oy TOADI
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Enpnrt.                                     09.0      84.6      74.8               1.0      10.4      24.6                     0.0         0.0      0.6
PrLo.ry                                  n.            .      96.7             5.0.       o..        2.3                    n.e.       n.;.       1.0
Melnsfanture.                            0.C.       o.a.      5.t.             nr8.       n.-.      n.e.                    o.a.        n.o.      n.e.
Import.                                    74.9       41.3      41.4             24.7       20.7      18.9                     0.4       1.0    39.7
October 1980



Am,.. I
- 24 -                                                Page I 6
Population         18.26  illioc (.ic-1978)
GNP Per Capita:  L'S$1,350 (1979)
PANAMA - RALAINE  OF ?A_NTS. EXTENAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(milli.ns US5 *t current prices)
Actual              ,_fi                                          ProJec tH!
1977                                   1973 19                                  51,
1975       1976                        1977) 1978 17      9O         19t      1982             19d3  19O       19t5         ,
BAIANCE OF PA YENTS
Exports of goods and services (N7)               851.5      827.7      908.7      946.7   1,045 7       1 120.3   1,219.2   1,365.2   1,505.7   1,675.1   15866.0           2,079.0
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                   (330.8)   (270.6)   (235.5)   (235.4)   (245.6)          (301.9)   (339.3)   (391.6)   (432.0)   (488.2)   (545.9)           (6f .Cf
Imports of gwois and services (NP)               992.1      976.8      997.8   1,076.8   1,335.3        1,391.3   1,543.2   1,709.9   1,872.5   2,052.7   2,247.9           ? ,2. .
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  (821.9)   (784.3)   (784.1)   (862.0) (1,077.7)   (1,122.9) (1,245.5) (1,380.1) (1,511.3) (1,656.7) (1,814.3)    (1,937.t)
Net Transfers                                     -5.0       -3.9       -2.3       -1.3       -0.3          0.7        1.7        2.7        3.7        4.7        5.7          6.3
Investment Income (Net)                          -20.8      -53.8      -61.4      -85.'    -175.7        -262.1    -289.0    -289.3    -282.3    -303.8    -327.7           _-60.0
Current Account Balance                         -166.4    -206.8    -152,8    -216.4    -454.8           -532.4    -611.3    -631.3    -645.4    -676.7    -703.9            -737.n
Official Capital Net                              79.2      290.2      256.3      513.9 1,'  192.4        260.0      231.4      215.4      242.0      269.2      298.8        300.7,
Amortization                                    27.5       41.9       86.9    450.5        190.0        197.5     191.6       267.2      379.i      332.1      331.8        337.C
Disbursemaent                                  106.7      332.1      343.2      995.4      382.4        457.5     423.0       482.6      621.4      601.3     630.6         637,r
Private Capital (Net) 2/                          61.4    -141.1      -167.2    -383.8        97.2         11.0       92.6      129.3      124.8      108.4       33.1         77..
Mo-et-ry Capita1 Net 3/                          175.7       30.7        4.9    -167.5       195.2        261.4      287.3      286.6      278.6      299.1      322.0        360.0
Unidentified private inflon, errors
4 omissions                                   -149.9       27.0       58.8      253.8        -           -          -          -          -          -         -             -
EXTERBAL lAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disburrenent                               249.0      375.1      341.2      986.4 1/  382.4         457.5     423.0      482.6       621.4     601.3      630.6         637.0
Official Grant,                                  3.f        0 .7       7.7        4.7         . C
Conceesional loans                              7S.6       74.9       24.2       19.2      28.9
Non-c.ncesuio-al loans
Official inport Credits                         n.a.        .0        0a.         n.a      - .a
OIcl 21.e8                                                 24.1       14.1      1n1.8       17-.         19.9       31.5       38.7      45.2       48.0       43.7         40.3
Other Multilaterl                               12.4       14.7       16.0       32.1      29.9
Private                                        172.2      290.6     279.6       901.5     190.2
Public A.ter.-a1 debt 4/
Debt  atist nding and disbursed                564.8      774.2   1,104.6   1,356.2   1,909.8        2,133.7   2,393.7   2,625.1   2,840.5   3,082.5   3,351.7           3,652.0
Official                                    194.7      262.6      337.0      390.3      461.4
Private                                     370.1      511.6      767.6      965.9   1,I(.8.4
Undiaborsed Debt                               192.9      353.3      340.6     495.1      513.9
Debt
Total Service Pay-ents                          72.4      105.0      165.7      571.9     401.0        500.5      526.7      608.f      720.3      702.0      734.0        775.0
Interest                                     41.2       60.4       78.4      129.5      211.0        3n3.0      335.1      341.3      340.9      369.9      402.2        438.0
Payrmnats a. =. Erports                          7.3       12. 7      18.2       60.4       38.1        44.7       43.2       44.6       47.8       41.9       39.3         37.3
Aver-ge Interest Rote on NE.  Loan                 -          -          -          -          -            -        10.7        11.0      10.7       12.0       12.0         12.0
Official                                         5.6        6.6        8.0        5.3        6.2          9.3       -          -          -          -          -            -
Private                                          9.2        8.7        8.4        9.4      11.2         11.0        -          -          -          -          -            -
Average M.turity of New Loan. (year.)
Official                                        21.5       18.5       18.5       17.8       19.i         17.0       17.0       17.0      15.0       15.0       15.0         15.0
Private                                          7.8        6.5        7.0       10.3       12.1          8.0        8.0       3.0        8.0        8.0        8.0          8.0
7. of Total Debt NQtot ndi.g
at Dec.ober 31, 1979
Maturity Structure
Maturing Aithin 5 years = 30.5
Maturing within 10 lears - 74.3
Interest Structure
Less than 0.1 percent had interest payable in the first year.
1/ Pn   und-ertoo} l-rge refinaacing of the debt It  1978.
2/ Estiseted as the difference between the resource gap *nd official capitl oet.
3/ 1975-78 actual figures, 1979-35 am,ount required to balance the *ccount, i.e .  to avoid defleting the econony.
Country Programa I
4/ DOD at beginnirg of the year.                                                                                                                  Latin America  nd the Caribbean
Regional Office
October 1980



ANNEX II
- 25 -                       Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of January 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number        Year         Borrower              Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
10 loans    (1953-80)    Fully disbursed                          137.4            -
901-PAN       1973       BNP                 Livestock Credit      4.7          0.2
1280-PAN       1976       IDAAN               Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0          6.9
1397-PAN       1977       BNP                 Livestock Credit      8.0          6.3
1398-PAN       1977       BNP                 Fisheries Credit       5.1          1.7
1470-PAN       1977       IRHE                Power                42.0         34.8
1565-PAN       1978       Republic            Highway
of Panama          Maintenance        12.0          9.6
1641-PAN       1978       COFINA              Industrial Credit   15.0           7.7
1672-PAN       1979       BNP                 Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.          19.0         16.7
1778-PAN       1980       IRHE                Power                23.0         22.8
1878-PAN       1980       Republic
of Panama        Urban                35.0         35.0
Total (less cancellations)                         313.2        141.7
of which has been repaid                          34.3
Total now outstanding                              278.9
Amount sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          8.4              0.8
Total now held by Bank                             278.1
Total undisbursed                                               141.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                       Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero               1.2      0.3      1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                          2.4      1.4      3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                              -      2.5      2.5
Total gross commitments                         3.6      4.2       7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                         0.4      0.3      0.7
Total commitments now held by IFC               3.2      3.9      7.1
Total undisbursed                                -       0.1      0.1



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 901:       Livestock Development Project; US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform settlements
involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening, and technical services.
Commitments lagged behind appraisal estimates, due mainly to initial delays
in organizing the project unit. The loan has now been fully committed.
The Borrower carried out a study to determine ways to expedite disbursements
and, on the basis of that review, the Closing Date was extended to March 31,
1981.
Loan 1280:      Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
The project includes: improvement of the distribution facilities in the
low-income district of El Chorrillo in Panama City; construction of a water
treatment plant to serve Colon; improvement of the water treatment plant of
the City of Chorrera; provision of water to the town of Arraijan and the
fishing port of Vacamonte; purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters;
technical assistance to improve the organization of IDAAN and to install a
new accounting and commercial system. Project execution has been slower
than estimated at appraisal due in part to changes in the management of the
Borrower. As a result of the changes, there were delays in the selection of
the consultants to carry out the engineering of the Colon treatment plant and
the rehabilitation of the Chorrera treatment plant, the largest components of
the project. Construction of all project components has started and is
proceeding well, and no further delays are expected. Some of the expected
improvements in the accounting and commercial systems have been carried out:
asset valuation has been completed and the billing and collection system
improved. The company has been financially sound largely as a result of
substantial increases in water rates in 1976 and 1977. In addition, on the
recommendation of the Bank, IDAAN recently agreed to seek the assistance
of a financial expert from the World Health Organization to help it in
carrying out additional improvements.
11   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1778:      Fifth Power Project:  US$23 Million Loan of January 30.
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a program designed to rehabilitate and expand IRHE's
subtransmission and distribution systems in the 1980-83 period. Procurement
of equipment is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1878:      Colon Urban Development Project:  US$35 Million Loan of
August 7, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
The project, which is cofinanced by a group of commercial banks led by the
Industrial Bank of Japan, consists of a program designed to rehabilitate
Colon as an economic growth center; to alleviate poverty through employ-
ment generation and improve the provision of urban and regional services.
It includes extension of the existing Free Zone; urbanization of new areas
including the construction of about 4,000 new dwellings; improvements to
the urban and regional infrastructure and technical assistance. Formal
arrangements among the various government agencies implementing the project
has been finalized and the project is being executed as planned. Procurement
of all project components is on schedule.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)   Project prepared by:             Executing agencies with the
assistance of consultants
(2)   Initial request for
Bank financing:                  September 1979
(3)   Draft Energy Sector Survey:    February 1980
(4)   First Bank mission
to consider project:             April 1980
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:            September 1980
(c)  Negotiations Completed:                 January 1981
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:             June 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
The Government agreed that:
(i) DGRM and the Technical Secretariat/DET would be adequately staffed
to execute the project, and that the necessary counterpart personnel
to the foreign consultants would be provided (paragraph 60).
(ii) Not later than 60 days after completion of the legal consultant's
review of the petroleum legislation and model contracts, the
Government would send to the Bank for comments the conclusions of
the review (paragraph 60).



- 31 -
ANNEX TII
Page 2 of 2
(iii) Before proceeding with the program of seismic surveys, DGRM would
present to the Bank, no later than November 30, 1981, a plan for
the initial phase of such program, and on completion of that phase,
present to the Bank the plan for the complementary phase of the
program (paragraph 60).
(iv) The proceeds of the sales of geophysical data and consultants'
reports would be placed in a special account and used exclu-
sively for energy sector surveys and studies until December 31,
1986 (paragraph 60).
(v) The Technical Secretariat/DET would, with the assistance of the
energy planning consultants, complete a preliminary long-term
energy strategy and an energy pricing study no later than
December 31, 1982 and promptly thereafter present them to the
Bank for comment (paragraph 62).
(vi) Loan proceeds for coal mapping would not be disbursed unless
DGRM provides the Bank with a satisfactory technical and
economic justification for such mapping (paragraph 61).
(vii) Loan proceeds would not be disbursed for geophysical studies
on geothermal sites other than Cerro Pando unless IRHE provides
the Bank with a satisfactory technical and economic justifica-
tion for such studies (paragraph 61).



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
ENERGY PLANNING AND PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Tentative Schedule of Implementation
Exploration Promotion
Employment of consultants                                    March 1981
Completion of draft model agreements and petroleum law    April 1981
Submission of call for bids and program for
reconnaissance seismic survey                              November 1981
Approval of petroleum law by Panama legislature              December 1981
Initiation of airmag survey                                  January 1982
First round of acreage bidding                               January 1982
Signature of first agreements with oil companies             December 1982
Energy Planning
Employment of energy planning consultants                     Beginning March 1981
Employment of energy conservation consultants                June 1981
Performance of pilot energy audits                           January-April 1982
Completion of energy conservation strategy papers            June 1982
Completion of energy pricing study                           July 31, 1982 (tentative)
Completion of preliminary long-term energy strategy          December 31, 1982
Coal Mapping
Employment of consultant                                     March 1981
Completion of consultant's report and recommendations        April 1981
Call for proposal from coal mapping firm                     May 1981
Initiation of coal mapping                                   October 1981



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Goethermal Study
Employment of geothermal consultant                         March 1981
Geothermal consultants recommendations on
geophysical sites other than Cerro Pando               June 1981
Employment of geophysical firm for Cerro Pando and
other sites as required                                October 1981
Completion of geothermal consultant's report and
recommendations                                        December 1981






IBRD-15487
83-                                              82-                                                tn-                                                80k                                               798                                                7sT                                 JANUARY 1961
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A RI  / -7  E A IV                                                S   gX0ttwX'.DEA>2,t,
12-IJi,0          05' Co6bb.. G~lf
i2& C x  ibbe   s,,lf      ,-5 nCIn,    ,~i   10                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13,9dm
2           O,  .  hir c n ,, I   / l 1,177m                                 *                                                                                                                                                                                                      x S 
2,44 ~  ~           ~           ~           ~          0 2 628                                                                                                      211.12"                                                      <         m106m                               .
1958
U ~~~~~~ ~ Lf 2         C h x  fnS                                                                                                                                                               3  -P l rln5 A.i
U                           /1,1775 C / F f                                                                                                                                                                 6 O
]  1958                                                                                                                                                                     968145                                                                       ,4l7-95o . ............
-               3- el o e,  C ,ic no9-791                                                                                                                                                                                                                        81,
165~ ~ ~ ~~~~16DliPxi.i
1962              1-Pel,oe,o   I       '~24-D
~~~~~~~~962n                                                                                                                                                                                                1,068~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
5 - T ..                                   ',         Penn                                       Guof           Cf            Pa am                3,              8-Gl         G        ,      z0        ilo   ": 
192
:   /             >                                                    Oi1 Explorotion Leose Areos                                           \       /,*nsSA  5-Golff l92
00 1959----f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94524    ,SZe12
2,626,,,.                             1,51~~~~~~~If D6,,.                           1,0  r-i 
FAG/F/C  OCEAN                                                                                                                               1974~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
L                     -  Sontisg  PerIof euar       n       aS.SaA.                                                                   /
O  6Exploration lnA.                                                                                                                          o          COLOMBIA
FlLOfAETEf S a  2e  JO  6  S0  lea   . p                     *9      fsfotinof capitrxf =                                    ' ' iS   ' - Botboa ExploPanam, lnc.l7 ation, inc.
29 s hmus ESlA       to,  e                                                                                              o
s  W  E t s l Es Pr~~~I                                                      @         atovnail capitols                                                Balrbboa Exploration, Inc.                                             7'            yJA481A
VILMEOES  0            20       40          60    |0 00                                                          r  fi 9  I blU  S g reft                                 p  f     Sa  B  o E  f o  o i       Inc.                                                        --'A E M      1801)845U
___________________                                                                                  @1oZ#Pvowbaae  Provateim yj*- - in cia3Bnnl cbiolrdriss                  Corild n  Exploration, Ic                                                        L^VOF,],,
bovboundaries                                          V7mvb¢jo  San Elanh Exploration, Inc.veif                                                0a61998  A           5      M 1 8    SeN19E9
MILlS  0  20  40  60                                                ,",.,'.1,                                            j7-Y~~~~~~~~~J~j Coldn Exploration, Inc.      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~        ~~a~o~~2 62          A00
9,n. 4e,,l re8 e,, 10d gnf vne Wboae/Cttrm 7ebr v vsht
wjSv4nDeVtS=~~b V4did¢ 0 B2t 0 \ 0 0 0 81 0 7\; 0000\ ; ; i; EC 0 ExPlorotion   0Wettslnrat.os, Wells (Drn'I-lletInYear/eept7r;in meters                                                                                         conre CIC
t. _2' .1' _0 a_
I9 74



