Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11527
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
JANUARY 11, 1993
Country Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe & Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AEEF        -     Energy Supervision Institute
CMEA        -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DKV         -     Danube Refinery
EEA         -     Energy Economy Authority
EGI         -     Energy Economy Institute
EEO         -     Energy Efficiency Office
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FE          -     Foreign Exchange
FTE         -    Foreign Trade Enterprise
MAT         -    Hungarian Aluminium Corporation
MVHT        -    Hungarian Electric Pover Trust
NBH         -    National Bank of Hungary
OKGT        -    National Oil and Gas Trust
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
Pj          -     Petajoules
SAR         -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDB         -     State Development Bank
FISCAL YEUK
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 11, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Hungary
Industrial Energy Diversification and
Conservation Prolect (Loan 2317-HU)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Hungary - Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation Project (Loan
2317-HU)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office with the
Borrower providing Part II of the report.
This was a highly complex project supporting energy efficiency
through the improvement in quality of domestic coal, upgrading the domestic oil
refinery, converting the alumina industry to coal-based steam generation,
expanding the natural gas distribution system, and financing a large number of
plant retrofitting investments in the industrial sector.   It also supported
institutional development through the creation of an Energy Conservation Center.
The rates of return for most of the subprojects were well over 20%.   Some
components were either justifiably cancelled (alumina industry) or less
profitable than expected (coal washing) because they were designed to assist
sectors which were inefficient and non-competitive when faced with market forces.
Because it was the Bank's first project in Hungary, it required a
substantial amount of supervision but the effort was worthwhile. The project is
a good example of the type of impact that the Bank can have on economies in
transition where the Government is committed to the success of the project
concept. The project is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely.
The project may be audited in conjunction with Loan 2709-HU which is
expected to close in June 1993.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE   .i...   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FRON THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .      1
Sector Development Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Policy Considerations  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .  2
Project Objectives and Description ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .....    3
(a) Institution Building Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
(b) The Energy Rationalization Facility (NBH) Component  . . . .  3
(c) Four Major Programs for Energy Diversification
and Conservation  .....  .  .    .  .  .   ...  .         3
(d) Technology Development Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Project Design and Organization  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  4
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    6
(a) Institution Building Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
(b) The NBH Energy Rationalization Facility Component  . . . . .  7
(c) Four Major Programs for Energy Diversification
and Conservation  .....  .  .    .  .  .   ... .          8
(d) Technology Development Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Bank Performance              . . . ....... . 10
Borrower Performance .    .    .     .................... . 10
Project Relationship .    .    .     .................... . 11
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Findings and Lessons Learned . . . ............... . 11
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S (NBH) PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . 12
Onlending Arrangements ..................... . 14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
A.   Related Bank Loans ............  ....  ...  .  . 15
B.   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Comments on Timetable ................... 16
C.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . . 16
Cumulative Disbursement Graph  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
D.   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Comments on Results ................... . 19
E.   Status of Covenants ................... . 20
F.   Mission Data ....................... . 22
C.   Use of Bank Resources ................... . 23



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Energy
Diversification and Conservation Project in Hungary, for which Loan 2317-HU in
the amount of US$109 million was approved on June 14, 1983. The loan was closed
on December 31, 1990, two and a half years behind schedule.   It was fully
disbursed and the last disbursement was on March 28, 1991.
The PCR was jointly prepared by staff of the Industry and Finance Division,
Technical Department, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III),
and the Borrower.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in May 1990, and is based, Inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report;   the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;  supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; consultants' reports;
and internal Bank memoranda and on personal consultation between Bank staff and
their Hungarian counterparts.






- U -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
EVALUATION SUMKARY
1         ObQiectiy&s
By the end of the 1970s, the Hungarian authorities realized that a
major program for energy rationalization had to be undertaken, particularly in
the industrial sector (which had become increasingly uncompetitive in convertible
currency markets), in order to (i) reduce production costs; (ii) substitute
indigenously produced fuels for imported liquid petroleum; and (iii) conserve
foreign exchange. The project, the aims of which were to lead to direct savings
in energy consumption and to provide a comprehensive approach to energy
rationalization, consisted of four complementary components:
(a) institution building; in this component, support was given for
strengthening of the Energy Economy Authority (EEA) and the Energy
Supervision Institute; an Energy Conservation Center was to be
established to provide and coordinate promotional campaigns, training,
technical assistance (including energy audits), and initiate Research
and Development in the field of energy rationalization;
(b) support for the Energy Rationalization Facility of the National Bank
of Hungary (NBH); initially, support for some 62 energy conservation
subprojects was to be provided for waste heat recovery, small projects
involving process improvements leading to lower energy consumption,
fuel substitution, and the production of energy conservation
equipment;
(c) support for (i) substitution of coal for heating oil and imported
coking coal; (ii) substitution of natural gas for imported oil; (iii)
energy rationalization in the alumina industry; and (iv) energy
rationalization in petroleum refineries; these four programs consisted
respectively of (i) the installation of four coal washing units and
one briquetting plant in order to upgrade coal quality so that it
could be substituted for gas oil, fuel oil and imported coking coal;
(ii) the installation of energy efficient boilers, using either
pulverized coal or fluidized bed technology, for steam and electricity
generation in the alumina industry;    (iii)  the installation of
pipelines and ancillary equipment to provide natural gas to the city
of Sopron, 10 small towns, 16 industrial users and gas distribution
systems for 116 small enterprises, thus replacing a considerable
quantity of petroleum products; and (iv) installation of a vis breaker
and other energy rationalization equipment in the Danube Refinery
(DKV); and



- iii -
(d) technology development; this component included a coal combustion
trial for the proposed fluidized bed boilers, a fluidized bed pilot
plant and the development of a process to produce coke from brown coal.
2.        Implementation ExRerience
The Hungarian foreign trade enterprise which was originally selected
was reluctant to follow Bank procurement procedures; the delays which resulted
were mitigated by permitting participating enterprises to commission other
foreign trade enterprises to carry out procurement for them. Neither the Project
Coordination Office nor the Energy Economy Institute functioned well initially,
partly because of their heavy work load and partly because of overemphasis on the
mining subsector at the expense of other project components; reallocation of
supervision functions improved the situation.   Because of industry economic
problems, as well as coal supply shortages, the component supporting the alumina
plant fluidized bed steam raising facilities was canceled. Technical problems,
as well as harsh winter conditions, caused implementation delays on the coal
washing and briquetting units. Later, the Government's restructuring program for
the mining industry led to the closure of uneconomic mines and the bankruptcy of
certain mining companies; this has robbed most of these units of raw material and
they have now been either shut down or running at reduced capacity.
Funds from canceled components, as well as savings on other
components, were reallocated to the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility, enabling
an extra 9 subprojects to be implemented. As a consequence the implementation
of the overall project was protracted by about 2 1/2 years.
3.        Results
The ERR of all components (except the coal substitution program and
the program to substitute natural gas for oil) have proved to be remarkably high.
The overall ERR of the completed subprojects of the NBH Facility is about 44%
(based on today's international energy prices); the ERRs of those still in
progress are estimated to lie between 36 - 58%, except for the final project (a
cement complex) which is concerned to a large extent with environmental clean up.
Although the natural gas distribution component has an ERR of only 11.9% (due to
today's lower than expected international oil prices), the final scope of the
component was considerably larger than planned (Sopron, 15 townships, 58
settlements, 124 major industrial and 424 minor users), with virtually no
increase in foreign exchange expenditure.
4.        Sustainability
With the exception of the coal substitution program (which has been
affected by the decisions taken in the Government's restructuring program for the
mining industry to close mines now found to be uneconomic), and the canceled
fluidized bed boilers, each component of the project has remained viable even
with the considerable fall in international oil prices which has occurred since
implementation was initiated. The success of the project has led to two further
Bank supported energy conservation projects which have replenished the NBH
Facility, although the current Government has canceled its energy conservation



- Iv -
promotional budgets. Today, with the Hungarian economy undergoing radical reform
towards an open market economy, pricing is playing an increasing role in
determining investment decisions and the need for this type of project, in the
design of which Government played a large role, is diminishing. Notwithstanding
these changes, most of the subprojects and other activities supported by the
project have proved to stand the test of time and are still viable in today's
reformed economy.
5.        Findings and Lessons Learned
The project has demonstrated the economic gains that can be achieved
through a well planned, integrated energy rationalization program. An essential
element contributing to success was the continuing commitment of the Government
and its principal institutions (NBH and the Ministry of Industry) together with
a recognition of the importance and value of energy conservation. To a large
extent, technology transfer was achieved through the encouragement of investment
as well as being stimulated by appropriate pricing of the various energy
carriers. Although the need for this kind of project has diminished as market
mechanisms assume greater importance in the rapidly reforming Hungarian economy,
most of the project's components have proved to be sustainable.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Industrial    Energy    Diversification    and
Conservation Project
Loan Number:       2317-HU (effective September 23,1983)
RVP Unit:          ECA
Country:           Hungary
Sector:            Industry
Loan Amount:       US$109,000,000.     There  was  also  a  B-Loan
agreement (together with Loan 2316-HU - Grain
Storage and Mechanization Development Project) of
US$200 million for the two projects, but in the
event, hardly any cofinancing funds were utilized
by this project.
2.        BackgrguM4
This project was the subject of the first loan that the Bank made to
Hungary.  It was also one of the first projects in the field of industrial energy
rationalization (i.e. diversification and conservation) carried out by Bank
staff, and became the model for other loans for industrial energy rationalization
in different countries during the 1980s. The Project was identified in October
1982, appraised a month later and presented to the Board in June 1983.
As in other Eastern European countries, energy intensity in Hungary
was also high. This was partly because of: (i) the important role that industry
plays in the economy (accounting for one third of GDP); (ii) the predominance of
energy intensive subsectors such as Chemicals and Metallurgy (which together
accounted for about one third of the gross value of industrial production); and,
(iii) the use of processes and equipment which were, by modern standards,
inefficient, particularly as far as energy consumption was concerned.
There were other constraints on industrial efficiency, including
capacity shortages, too wide a product composition in many subsectors, shortage
of investment capital, (particularly of foreign exchange), the operation of the



- 2 -
Bucharest Agreement' (which was expected to lead to higher prices for imported
crude oil), and the prevalence of barter agreements with other CMEA countries,
most of which supplied (and could only absorb) products of low quality which were
more or less uncompetitive, either in price or in quality, with products
manufactured in Western industrialized economies.
3.        Sector DeveloRment Obiectives
The Hungarian authorities had come to realize, by the end of the
1970s, that the industrial sector had become increasingly uncompetitive (compared
to Western European producers) and that there was a need, inter alia, to reduce
production costs. Unlike Western Economies where energy intensity was declining.
energy consumption had been increasing in direct proportion to GDP, and energy
supplies were becoming short.  It was therefore decided to undertake a major
integrated program for energy rationalization, particularly in the industrial
sector in order to (i) reduce production costs: (ii) substitute indigenously
produced fuels for imported liquid petroleum; and (iii) conserve foreign
exchange.
4.        Policy Considerations
Control of the energy sector was vested in the Energy Economy
Authority, a branch of the then Ministry of Industry (now the Ministry of
Industry and Trade). The Authority was in the vanguard of integrated actions to
conserve energy, including bringing domestic energy prices up to international
levels as soon as possible.   By the time of the appraisal of this project,
producer prices (i.e. the prices paid by industrial enterprises) for most
petroleum products were already comparable with international prices, except for
gasoline, which was sold at 150% of international prices. Producer prices of
natural gas and coal had been set at levels to encourage industry to switch from
petroleum fuels to coal and gas, and were at that time below the prices of
international equivalents. However, it was the opinion of Bank staff that the
Hungarian authorities had overestimated the inducements needed to get enterprises
to switch fuels and that these prices had been set too low for some coal mines
and briquette manufacturers to cover costs of production and achieve a reasonable
return on capital. The Energy Economy Authority had, in late 1982, accordingly
recommended an increase in producer prices which would still preserve sufficient
incentives to switch fuels. At the same time, agreements with the IMF provided
for the phased reduction of subsidies on energy to both producers and consumers.
As a matter of social policy, energy consumer prices (with the exception of the
gasoline price) were subsidized; a prolonged economic dialogue (which was
initiated during the appraisal stage of the Project), between the Hungarian
Government and the Bank, subsequently led to a rise in price of consumer prices
for energy.
1 The Bucharest Agreement, which determined the prices of commodities entering into intra-
Comecon trade, fixed the price of crude oil as the moving average, over the previous five years, of
the Arabian Gulf fob price of a reference crude.



5.        Project Obiectives and DescriRtion
The Project, the aims of which were to achieve direct savings in
energy consumption and to provide a comprehensive approach to energy
rationalization, consisted of four complementary components: (a) institution
building; (b) support for the Energy Rationalization Facility of the National
Bank of Hungary (NBH); (c) support for four major programs for energy
diversification and conservation, viz: (i) substitution of coal for heating oil
and imported coking coal, (ii) substitution of natural gas for oil, (iii) energy
rationalization in the alumina industry, and (iv) energy diversification and
conservation in the petroleum refining industry; and (d) technology development.
(a) Institution Building Component
Within the Energy Economy Authority (EEA) in the Ministry of Industry,
a small group of senior experts was to be established to initiate,
coordinate and supervise energy conservation subsector studies
(including petroleum refining and ferrous metallurgy) necessary for
the detailed formulation of the long-term Program for Industrial
Energy Diversification and Conservation.   An energy conservation
center (this was subsequently titled the Energy Efficiency Office),
which was to take the lead in implementing government programs and
coordinating all agencies involved in industrial energy conservation
and diversification, was to be set up as part of the strengthening and
reorganization of the Energy Supervision Institute  (AEEF).   The
Project was to finance the cost of the subsector studies and of the
acquisition of the necessary organizational, promotional and technical
expertise required to set up these activities, including training, use
of international experts and provision of analytical and monitoring
equipment.
(b) The Energy Rationalization Facility (NBH) Component
Foreign exchange requirements were financed for the continuation of
the industrial energy rationalization program financed under the NBH
Energy Rationalization Facility. Some 62 subprojects had already been
identified as suitable for financing by the Facility by the time of
appraisal.
(c) Four Major Programs for Energy Diversification and Conservation
(i) Program for Substitution of Indigenous Coal for Heating Oil and
Imported Coking Coal.   The installation of four coal washing
units (at Nagybatony, Tatabanya, Pecs and Oroszlany) and one
briquetting plant (at Nagymanyok) were to be financed under this
component: the aims were (a) to raise the quality and calorific
value of the coal produced at these mines, so that brown coal
could be substituted for fuel oil consumed by households and
public institutions; and (b) to increase domestic coking coal
production in order to reduce imports of similar quality.



- 4 -
(ii) Program for Substitution of Coal for Oil in the Alumina Industry.
The production of alumina from indigenous bauxite was a major
industry in Hungary, but was becoming uncompetitive, in part
because of the high energy costs involved.   It was therefore
intended to replace the oil-burning steam boilers with modern,
energy-efficient coal burning boilers (either using pulverized
coal or fluidized bed technology) and also to install
cogeneration equipment. As part of the procedure for choosing
the better technology, a large scale combustion trial, using a
sample of the coal to be utilized on the plant, was carried out
(see (d) below).
(iii)  Program for Substitution of Natural Gas for Oil.  This component
supported the extension of the natural gas supply system to areas
with a large number of industrial, household and commercial
consumers which were using light and heavy fuel oils as an energy
source. The subcomponent included the importation of the polymer
used for the manufacture of the pipelines, equipment for
connection of consumers to the grid, the laying of distribution
lines within the towns involved, conversion of consumers' oil
burning systems to gas, as well as the conversion of the city of
Sopron and its major industrial consumers from the use of gas
from reforming naphtha and LPG to reformed natural gas.
(iv) Program for Energy Diversification and Conservation in Petroleum
Refining. This component was to finance the rationalization of
the utilization of the Danube Refinery fuel streams (by the
installation of a visbreaker) as well as several smaller energy
conservation projects at this refinery.
(d) Technology Development Component
This component consisted of:  (i) a coal combustion trial for the
alumina plant steam raising equipment; this trial was to be made if
the lowest evaluated bid was for a boiler of a design which had not
previously been run using coal of the type which was to be employed
on the Alumina Plant; (ii) a fluidized bed pilot plant, which could
be the prototype of low pollution replacements for some 50 oil
burning units (used mainly for district heating); and (iii) the
testing of a process to produce low compressive strength
metallurgical coke from brown coal on existing rotary kilns, thus
reducing imports of expensive metallurgical coke.
6.        Proiect Desijn and Organization
Bank staff strongly believed that the sine qua non for a successful
program was an integrated approach which had as its basis a firm government
commitment of support, and which would include the establishment of an Energy
Efficiency Office (EEO), which would coordinate activities in the field such as
energy audits, promotional campaigns, demonstration projects, training, etc. The
EEO was to work closely with both the strengthened Energy Economy Authority and



with other sections of the reorganized AEEF which was to carry out energy audits
and to vet technically the candidate subprojects submitted for inclusion in the
NBH Energy Rationalization Facility. The institution building component thus
became of major importance in providing the cement which bound the individual
components into an integrated project and which helped to provide sustainability
to the Energy Rationalization Program as a whole.  The Hungarian authorities
agreed completely with this approach.
Because this was to be the first Bank supported project in Hungary,
the appraisal team was concerned that difficulties could arise, and time could
be lost, because the Hungarian institutions involved in implementation were
unacquainted with Bank procedures and requirements, particularly as regards
subproject appraisal and Bank procurement guidelines. Therefore, the Ministry
of Industry set up a Project Coordination Office, reporting directly to the
Secretary of State for Energy. The responsibilities of each participating agency
were delineated and agreed; each borrowing entity had to obtain the services of
a qualified engineering consultant group to coordinate each subproject and to
assist in bid packaging and evaluation. The AEEF was given the responsibility
to ensure that the appropriate implementation and supervisory arrangements were
made for the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility and the Alumina Industry
component, while other competent agencies were appointed for each of the other
components. Procurement seminars were given by Bank specialists, and a post-
appraisal mission was mounted, to deal almost exclusively with outstanding
procurement issues.   It was agreed that, in order to minimize procurement
problems, and to enhance the effectiveness of supervision by the Bank and the
Borrower, procurement would be carried out by a single foreign trade enterprise.
7.        Proiect ImDlementation
In spite of the precautions detailed above, project implementation was
rather slow initially; delays arose because the foreign trade enterprise
appointed was reluctant to follow Bank procurement procedures and was not
competent to procure equipment required by different subsectors which were
participating in the project. It was therefore decided to encourage competition
by permitting participating enterprises to commission other foreign trade
enterprises to procure goods and services for them.
The Energy Economy Institute, as well as the Project Coordination
Office also did not function very well initially, perhaps because of the work
load already allocated to these organizations, and because too much attention was
being paid to the mining subsector at the expense of other components of the
Project.   The role of the Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF) was therefore
eventually enlarged to include most of the implementation supervision functions
previously assigned to the coordination office. This arrangement worked very
well and has been continued in later energy conservation projects in Hungary.
Because of the large number of agencies involved in the project, with
different status (including Government Departments, the National Bank of Hungary,
the State Development Bank and various enterprises, the onlending arrangements
were very complex.   They are illustrated in the attached flowsheet.   These



- 6 -
arrangements also worked smoothly, except in the case of the State Development
Bank (SDB), which experienced bookkeeping problems and later had difficulty in
recovering all the money it had on-lent for the subcomponent for which it was
responsible.
Two major project issues were addressed during the implementation
phase. The first related to the subproject to install new fluidized bed steam
raising equipment in the Alumina plant at Almasfuzio. The deteriorating position
of the alumina industry, coal supply shortages and the need for other, higher
priority investment in the Aluminum Trust (MATA) led to cancellation of this
subcomponent, and the funds were reallocated to the NBH facility to meet a much
increased demand from industry for recourse to the Facility.
During the implementation phase of the component to erect coal washing
and briquetting plants, each of the subprojects suffered implementation problems
and delays due to harsh winter weather conditions, equipment quality problems,
and new environmental legislation. As a result, the completion of most of the
projects in this subcomponent were delayed for between one and two years. At
appraisal it was already known that a number of coal mines were in financial
difficulties, and special financial covenants were included in the Loan Agreement
in order to ensure that Government action would be taken to maintain the debt
service capability of the mining companies.   After studies by the Hungarian
authorities and by the Bank in the period 1987-1989, a new restructuring policy
was introduced which led to the closure of uneconomic mines, which has
jeopardized the raw material supplies for some of the coal upgrading projects.
Differences in the planned and actual foreign exchange (F.E.) allocation to this
component were reallocated to the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility.
The implementation of the overall project took longer than expected,
partly due to the initial delays discussed above, and partly because of the
extensions to the NBH Facility from fund reallocations from other components,
which raised the funds made available to the Facility from the appraisal estimate
of US$26.1 million to US$64.3 million. This permitted an extra 10 subprojects
to be supported under the facility.  As a consequence, the closing date was
extended to December 1990 and disbursements under the project, which were planned
at appraisal to be completed in the fourth quarter of 1988, were not in fact
completed until the end of the first quarter of 1991.
8.        Prolect Results
(a) Institution Building Component
All elements of this component were successfully implemented. Energy
conservation subsector studies were produced and were used in
formulating the Government's strategy for energy rationalization as
well as in developing restructuring policies for these subsectors.
The study of energy conservation in the oil refining industry was
concentrated on the two major refineries, where detailed energy audits
were carried out; the consultants made recommendations for eleven
relatively small subprojects to be implemented at the Danube Refinery;
all have now been successfully completed.



Two consultant groups carried out energy conservation studies on three
of Hungary's metallurgical plants. At the Lenin Metallurgical Works,
a 30% increase in efficiency was obtained, with a reduction of 10 -
15% in electricity consumption and a very significant reduction in
peak power consumption. These changes, together with modifications
to rolling mill drives, have led to savings of well over Ft 20 million
per annum.   Studies at the other metallurgical works have led to
shutting down or modernization of energy intensive equipment.
The Ministry of Industry implemented consultants' proposals relating
to the scope of activities and build-up of personnel for the EEO, and
set up the EEO within the AEEF, which was itself strengthened by the
recruitment of more technical staff and by the supply of new
analytical and monitoring equipment.   Training was provided to the
relevant institutions  through   study tours abroad,  demonstration
energy audits (jointly carried out by consultants and staff of the
Energy Audit Groups of EEO and AEEF) in a hospital, a textile
finishing plant, a paper mill and a glass factory. The trained staff
of EEO then trained energy managers in Hungarian industrial
enterprises and arranged further 16 study tours abroad for key
personnel.
EEO has played a major role in encouraging energy conservation in
Hungary through its promotional activities including, as well as the
more conventional use of seminars and demonstration projects for
industrial managers, a campaign aimed at housewives and children and
which included television spots, schools lectures, a comic book for
children and the development of a comic character personifying the
benefits from energy savings, particularly in the household sector.
A demonstration project which received much notice was in a hospital.
EEO staff, working with consultants, lowered a hospital energy bill
by about 30%, and improved conditions in the hospital as well as
achieving a more efficient use of resources such as operating
theaters, laundry facilities etc. The incentive to the hospital was
that any saving achieved in the energy budget would be retained by the
hospital and used to purchase badly needed new medical equipment.
(b) The NBH Energy Rationalization Facility Component
The NBH Energy Rationalization Facility was originally intended to
provide finance for 62 small scale industrial energy conservation
projects, which were estimated to require F.E. of US$26.1 million when
the loan agreement was signed. However, during implementation, the
demand for funds from the Facility proved to be greater than estimated
at appraisal, due to the fact that (i) the Facility represented one
of the few sources of foreign exchange which could be used by
industrial enterprises to improve the efficiency of their current
operations; and (ii) the energy conservation promotional campaigns
already being undertaken by EEO and AEEF were influencing the
attitudes of industrial managements towards investments in this area.



- 8 -
Funds became available from cancellation or surpluses from other
project  components,  and  were  reallocated  to  the  NBH  Energy
Rationalization Facility, which had already a queue of unrequited
project proposals; the Facility finally ended up with an allocation
of US$64.3 million for 65 subprojects.  Due to the success of this
component, the Facility has been replenished from two subsequent Bank
loans.
The energy savings attributable to this component were estimated at
the time of appraisal to amount to about 8.4 Pj per annum; the actual
savings achieved amounted to about 15.5 Pj per annum for the projects
that were implemented. The estimated ERR at the time of appraisal for
the subprojects in the original list was a very high 41X (based on the
Bank's official estimates of future oil prices, which have since
proved to be far too high). Calculations have been made of the actual
ERRs obtained for the list of projects actually implemented under the
Facility, assuming a crude oil price of US$20 per barrel, which was
the pre-Gulf Crisis ruling price.   On this basis, the actual ERR
obtained for the entire list of projects supported by this component
was 38.6X.
(c) Four Major Programs for Energy Diversification and Conservation
(i)  Program for Substitution of Indigenous Coal for Heating Oil and
Imported Coking Coal. Of the five projects in this subcomponent,
the three washing plants (at Nagybatony, Tatabanya and Pecs) all
successfully operated after initial delays due to faulty
equipment.   However,  a drastic restructuring of the mining
industry is being implemented and uneconomic and environmentally
polluting mines are being shut down (para. 7); in addition, there
has been a fall in demand for coking coal for the domestic steel
industry.   As a consequence, there is little need to operate
these three units which have now either been shut down or are
running on reduced capacity.   The Nagymanyok coal briquetting
plant has been successfully reconstructed and has operated
uninterruptedly since December 1987. The Oroszlany coal dressing
plant operated at above rated capacity for two years, but is
currently running at reduced production while its major customer,
the Oroszlany power station, is undergoing reconstruction, after
which demand for the plant's output is expected to be restored.
(ii) Program for Substitution of Coal for Oil in the Alumina Industrv.
This subcomponent was canceled.
(iii)  Program of Substitution of Natural Gas for Oil.  This component
was considerably enlarged over its original conception of linking
up the natural gas system to the city of Sopron, 10 townships, 16
industrial users and 116 small users. With an increase in local
expenditure (but virtually none in F.E.), connections were made
to Sopron, 15 smaller towns, 58 minor settlements, 124 major
industrial users and 424   minor users.   There has been a



- 9 -
concomitant switch of energy consumption from oil products to
natural gas, with beneficial environmental effects.   However,
because of absolute and relative movements in the prices of oil
products and of imported natural gas, the actual ERR was only
11.9%, against a SAR estimate of 25%.
(iv) Program for Enerav Diversification and Conservation in Petroleum
Refining.    After  a  study  of  the  potential  for  energy
rationalization in the Refining Industry, 12 proposals (including
the installation of a vis breaker) were implemented after delays.
The actual ERR obtained was 21.9%, against an optimistic SAR
estimate of 59%, which was based on the Bank's official estimate
at that time (which in the event proved to be a substantial
overestimate) of future oil prices.
(d) Technology Development Component
One element of this component - the coal combustion test for the
alumina plant fluidized bed boiler - was not carried out because of
the cancellation of the alumina plant component. The other elements,
including the erection of a pilot plant fluidized bed boiler and the
production of brown coal-based coke, were successfully implemented at
a lower cost than planned. The excess funds were reallocated to the
NBH Energy Rationalization Facility.
9.        Prolect  Sustainabilitv
The sustainability of most components of the Project is well attested
by the fact that, with the exception of Component C (i), the Coal Substitution
Program (which has suffered from the correct decision to close mines now found
to be uneconomic), the subprojects have remained viable even with the lower
energy costs which have prevailed since implementation has started. Even with
the massive industrial restructuring programs now under way in Hungary, the vast
majority of the subprojects funded under this Loan are expected to remain in
operation.    Two  further  Bank  loans  have  replenished  the  NBH  Energy
Rationalization Facility, now being operated by the Credit Banks established in
the late 1980s. Recently, the demand for financing of new energy rationalization
subprojects has fallen off; this is considered by the staff of the Credit Banks
to be due to the current uncertainty as to the future economic situation in
Hungary.   When the current economic problems are resolved, demand for the
Facility is expected to pick up again. Also, because of the need for a tight
economic policy, Government expenditure has been cut, and one casualty has been
the energy conservation promotional budget of the EEO, although the past
promotional activities of the EEO certainly played a significant role in
restraining energy demand. Today, with the Hungarian economy undergoing radical
reform towards an open market economy, pricing is playing an increasing role in
determining investment decisions and the need for this type of project, in the
design of which Government played a large role, is diminishing. Notwithstanding
these changes, most of the subprojects and other activities supported by the
project have proved to stand the test of time and are still viable in today's
reformed economy.



- 10 -
10.       Bank Performance
Identification and appraisal were carried out rapidly, with appraisal
starting about two weeks after the return of the identification mission. The
appraisal team used the Bank's official projections for crude oil prices, with
consequent gross overestimates of the ERRs to be expected from the individual
components of the Project. Because this was the first Bank project in Hungary,
Bank staff have been more involved than usual in this project, not only through
frequent supervision missions, but also because of the attention given
(particularly to procurement issues) by staff when in Washington. The original
decision to use just one Hungarian foreign trade enterprise (FTE) for equipment
procurement in practice was not a success. It was rapidly realized that other
FTEs could do a better job, and the appropriate changes to the procurement system
were made early on in the implementation process. Initially, disbursements were
as a consequence extremely slow;   about US$3 million were disbursed in FY84
against an estimate of about US$16.3 million. While the pace of disbursement did
pick up in subsequent years, the loan could not be fully disbursed by FY88, as
was originally estimated. In fact, there were three extensions of the closing
date, and the final disbursement took place in March 1991. (Part III, Table C
on page 14 provides a comparison of the yearly pace of disbursements compared to
the estimates). One reason for the success of the overall implementation and
supervision phase was that, in spite of the massive reorganizations which took
place both in the NBH in Budapest and in the Bank in Washington, those personnel
involved in the design and appraisal of the project (in both locations) remained
actively involved with the implementation, virtually until the loan closing date.
11.       Borrower Performance
The success of the project is a tribute to the high quality of the
Hungarian staff involved in all aspects of implementation.   In particular,
mention should be made of the NBH staff, (in both the central coordinating group
in the Department for International Development Institutions and in the Credit
Departments), the Energy Economy Authority of the Ministry of Industry (EEA), who
were responsible for most of the technical supervision, as well as the staff of
the Energy Efficiency Office, who played a major role in promoting the importance
of energy conservation to both industry and the general public. This was all the
more remarkable because during this period, radical restructuring of Hungary's
banking system took place, with the establishment of a number of competing credit
banks (based on the NBH credit departments) and NBH becoming a pure central bank.
However, the expertise, particularly in identification and appraisal, which had
developed in the old NBH credit departments was transferred to the new banks
which continued their operation of the NBH facility and indeed attracted new
business which is being funded under later energy conservation loans to Hungary.



- 11 -
12.       Proiect Relationship
Close relations were established between the Bank staff working on the
project and the key Hungarian officials. Formal letters and telexes were usually
supplemented by frequent telephone conversations as how best to deal with the
issues which had arisen. This atmosphere of mutual trust has been maintained
through all later follow-up and related projects, in particular Energy
Conservation II and the Energy Development Project.
13.       Proiect Documentation and Data
Although the onlending arrangements were very complicated, and the
situation in which the Loan and Project Agreements had to operate changed
materially during implementation, all Bank staff connected with the project (and
in particular Legal Department) showed praiseworthy appreciation of important
project issues when interpreting and, when necessary, modifying the original
agreements. A large part of the documentation of this PCR has also been provided
by the Borrower.
14.       Findings and Lessons Learned
The project has demonstrated the economic gains that can be achieved
through a well planned, integrated energy rationalization program. An essential
element contributing to success was the continuing commitment of the Government
and its principal institutions (NBH and the Ministry of Industry) together with
a recognition of the importance and value of energy conservation. To a large
extent, technology transfer was achieved through the encouragement of investment
as well as being stimulated by appropriate pricing   of the various energy
carriers. Although the need for this kind of project has diminished as market
mechanisms assume greater importance in the rapidly reforming Hungarian economy,
most of the project's components have proved to be sustainable.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S (NBH PERSPECTIVE)
A.    Part III of the Project Completion Report
Remarks to Part III have already been passed on during the visit of the
Bank's mission in November 1991.  The table on project results as agreed was
updated by AEEF and is attached in the Annex.   The energy saving of the
multipurpose technology development project/Vac Cement Works/ has been examined
and reappraised after a few months operation at the end of 1991.  The main
indicators of the project:
Investment costs (million Fts):
Planned:  4280                 Actual:  5563.1
Clinker Production (thousand tons):
Before investment:  1110             After investment:  383.5
Specific energy consumption of the new furnace (kj/kg)t
Planned:  2868                 Actual:  3111
The contradictory data of planned energy saving and rates of return
can be explained as follows:   the value of energy saving was assessed as
potential energy saving based on specific energy consumption of the world's
leading cement manufacturers assuming optimal capacity utilization. FRR and ERR
was however calculated assuming real life with decreasing energy saving. The
results of the appraisal shows worse than expected specific consumption due to
the lower than expected cement production/lack of demand for cement/, higher than
guaranteed specific energy consumption of the new furnace as well as the changing
viscosity of the fuel oil.
B.    Part I of the Proiect Completion Report
The suggested modifications to the analysis contained in Part I of the PCR
were already accepted by the Bank mission in November 1991 and the corrections
have been introduced.



- 13 -
C.    Bank Performance
Since this was the first Bank financed project in Hungary a great attention
was given by the Bank staff to the identification, appraisal, implementation and
supervision of the project. The subprojects were approved individually by the
Bank and support was also given to the procurements.   Bank staff supported
Hungarian officials with procurement seminars and useful advices. Bank staff was
flexible in the reallocation of the loan amount to the Energy Rationalization
Facility in order to support additional successful energy saving subprojects.
D.    Borrower Performance
The project was very well prepared by the Borrower, it is proven by the
fact that only a couple of weeks passed between project preparation and appraisal
and the loan agreement was signed in 10 months. Despite of the restructuring of
the Hungarian banking system the implementation of the project was successful due
to the high quality of /in particular/ the staff of NBH, the Ministry of
Industry,  the AEEF and the Energy Efficiency Office.    Following  initial
difficulties in following the IBRD guidelines and bidding procedure there were
no problems in procurements. The success of the subprojects supported by the
Energy Rationalization Facility (60% of the Loan Amount) was shown by the fact
that two follow-up agreements have been signed.
E.    Project Relationship
Despite the bank reorganization both in Budapest and Washington close
relations were established between the Bank staff and the Hungarian officials
since the key experts of the design and appraisal of the project remained active
and helped each other in the implementation virtually until the loan closing
date. The issues arisen during the appraisal, implementation and supervision
were resolved in the atmosphere of mutual trust. This good relationship has been
maintained though all later follow-up and related projects.



ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS
Loan Agreement
+ Hungarian People's Republic
r          1 | ~~SUB IA                                                     I
| NBH Facility  |                                      Institution Building
Technology Development
PA                          NBH Channel
SUB LA_
SUB LA
v                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUB  LA           SUB 'LA      SUB IA
PA       OKGT    PA   OKGT   PA    A    PA  Coal 1             SDB    PA  MVMT
|(Refinery)|   (Gas)               ||Coal 2           Channeln1
SU  LA ,    Consolidated
REFINERY                KO       DEA          AZ               COAL 3,4,5  PA for coal
ISUB/SUB IA
|G A S  C O N S U MERS|
Construction
Service
LA - Loan Agreement
PA - Project Agreement
Soume: SAR, June 1983



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2317-HU)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Loan Number       Year of    Purpose of Project        Status           Comments
Project Title    Approval
Ln. 2709-HU          1986      Replenishment of      US$21.3        Virtually all
Second Industrial              NBH Energy           million         committed; Closing
Energy                         Rationalization       disbursed out    date June 1993
Conservation                   Facility; Institutional   of total loan of
Project                        strengthening        US$25 million
Ln. 3055-HU          1989      Further replenishment  US$2.3        Commitments slower
Energy                         of NBH Energy        million         than expected because
Development                    Rationalization      disbursed out    of uncertain economic
Project:                       Facility             of loan         outlook
Rationalization                                     component of
Component                                           US$10 million
B.     Proiect Timetable
Activity         Date Planned       Date         Date Actual
Revised
Identification   October 1982                    October 1982
Appraisal       November 1982                   November 1982
Loan               May 1983                       May 1983
Negotiation
Board Approval    June 1983                       June 1983
Loan Signature     July 1983                       July 1983
Loan              August 1983                    August 1983
Effectiveness
Completion      December 1987                     March 1991
Loan Closing       June 1988     June 1989 &    December 1990
June 1990
Disbursement    December 1988   June 1989 &      March 1991
Completed                         June 1990



- 16 -
Comments on Timetable
There were two major reasons why the overall project completion was delayed for about 2 1/2
years: (1) Initial delays during the procurement phase were caused by unfamiliarity of the Hungarian
foreign trade enterprises with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures; (2) A major reallocation of
funds to the NBH Energy Rationalization Facility during implementation led to a number of extra
subprojects being financed by the Facility; these subprojects had to be designed and appraised, and funds
disbursed, much later in the project schedule than those subprojects which had been initially included in
the list to be financed by the NBH Facility. The Loan closing date had therefore to be rescheduled three
times: from June 1988 to June 1989, then for a further year to June 1990, and finally for an extra six
months to December 1990.
C.     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ Million)
FY 1984  FY 1985  FY 1986  FY 1987  FY 1988  FY 1989  FY 1990   FY 1991
Appralsal Estimate   16.30    54.30    95.30    105.70   109.00    109.00    109.00    109.00
Revised Estimate    16.30    52.30    81.80    92.20    95.50    105.50    109.00    109.00
Actual             2.99    25.17    44.21    66.56    93.65    100.39    102.98    109.00



- 17 -
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
US$ MILLION
120-
80
',           20/X,";f-0   
z
LU
6O_
40
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
FINANCIAL YEAR
|-U APPRAISAL ESTIMATE -+- REVISED ESTIMATE  -*- ACTUAL



- 18 -
D.      Project Results
Component   Type of Subproject    No.              Capital Cost  World Bank   World Bank   Energy    FRR   ERR
Loan         Loan         Saved
Million      Million      Million       PJ/year   %       %
Forints      Forints      US$
A 2      Energy Saving               planned    2576.3       1050.6                     5.310
Subprojects          41   actual      2611.6       1046.6        21.917       4.917     46.6  48.9
Al       Background Industry         planned    1703.5       479.7                      10.471
Subprojects          9     actual      1668.1       492.2        10.330        9.188    33.5  38.5
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
A'       Energy Sources              planned     72.7         11.5                      0.026
Restructuring Projects   3  actual      68.2        10.8          0.209        0.026    38.8   3.
A'      Energy Diversification      planned    2420.8       999.5                     -0.148
Subprojects          3     actual     2414.4        995.0        20.280       -0.131    42.2  44.3
A'       Subtotal                    planned    6773.3       2541.3                     15.659
56   actual      6762.3       2544.6        52.736      14.000    40.4  43.7
A3       Energy Saving         8     planned     778.6       460.6         8.050        0.949     25.2  36.1
Subprojects              I
A2       Background Industry    1    planned     27.0         19.0         0.310        0.339     26.0  58.0
Subprojects
A2       Multipurpose          1    planned    4280.0        100.0         2.000        1.200     14.1  17.1
Technology
Development              I
A2       Subtotal              10   planned    5085.6        579.6         10.360       2.489     15.2  18.8
A' + A2    Total                 66   actual +   11847.9       3124.2        63.096       16.489    34.7  38.6
l____________________  ______   planned
B       Coal washing and      5     planned    3247.2        525.6        13.140        N.A      29.0  85.0
briquetting                actual      3091.0       453.7         8.520        N.A       -
C       Fluidized Bed Boilers    1    planned    1354.0      619.2        15.480        N.A.     25.0  33.0
for Alumina Plant          actual 6     _            _                         N.A.      -      -
D       Substitution of       5     planned    2444.0        694.8        17.370        N.A.     18.0  25.0
Natural Gas for Oil        actual     3650.0        870.8        17.416        N.A.     11.3  11.8
E       Refinery Energy       12    planned    2000.5        699.0        19.080       2.588     40.0   8
Rationalization            actual      1976.5       685.5        14.145        1.882    32.5  43.8
Completed and reappraised projects.
Projects in progress.
' Most units shut down
' Project canceled



- 19 -
Comments on Results
The ERR of all components (except the coal substitution program and the program to substitute
natural gas for oil) have proved to be remarkably high. The overall ERR of the completed subprojects
of the NBH Facility is about 44%; the ERRs of those still in progress are estimated to lie between 36 -
58%, except for the final project (a cement complex) which is concerned to a large extent with
environmental cleanup. Although the natural gas distribution component has an ERR of only 11.8% (due
to current low energy prices), the final scope of the component was considerably larger than planned
(Sopron, 15 townships, 58 settlements, 124 major industrial and 424 minor users), with virtually no
increase in Foreign Exchange expenditure.



- 20 -
E.        Status of Covenants
Covenant              Subject of Covenant                          Deadline        Status
Loan Aarecment
From thO Govt.:
4.02 (a)             Inform Bank of financial measures to be
taken at Tatabanya; furnish plan for              9/1/84     Complied with
company to meet its obligations in 1986
and after.                                       12/31/84
4.02 (b)            Inform Bank of financial measures to be
taken at MAT; fumish plan for the
Corporation to meet its obligations in                       Component
1987 and after.                                  12/1/85     canceled
3.04 (b)             Assign staff to EEA & AEEF to carry out          11/30/84     Complied with
subsector studies.
Establish Energy Economy Center.                3/31/85      Complied with on time
but subsequent development
delayed.
3.06 (a)             Establish and maintain project coordination        N.A        Complied with
office In Mlnistry of Industry.
4.04                 Review annually interest rates on NBH              N.A.       Complied with
Energy Rationalization Facility Loans.
3.06 (b)             Designate engineering agency for                   N.A        Complied with
procurement assistance etc. for each component.
From the Govt.,
N8H, SDB. and
Project Entities:
Companies Project    Ensure that OKGT and Coal Mining Companies
Agreement            will maintain agreed financial ratios.             N.A        Coal mines
4.03, 4.04 & 4.05                                                                 shut down.
MAT Project          Ensure that MAT will maintain                     NA         Component
Agreement 4.03, 4.04   agreed financial ratios,                                    canceled.
& 4.05
NBH Project Agreement Furnish Information for review
2.05                 on 42 NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility subprojects.                            12/31/83    Complied with
NBH Project Agreement Provide share of financing for these
4.01                 subprojects.



- 21 -
Status of Covenants
Covenant              Subject of Covenant                         Deadline        Status
Loan Aarnement
3.01 (a)            Ensure that project facilities will be             NA.       Complied with
designed, built and implemented according
to safety and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.03                 Ensure that consultants are selected              NA.       Complied with
according to Bank Procurement Guidelines.
3.01 (c)            Contract project implementation subloans           N.A        Complied with
at agreed terms and conditions.
3.06 (b) & 4.03 (b)  Follow up financial covenants and                N.A.        Complied with
reporting requirements.



- 22 -
F.           Mission Data
Month/      No. of          Days    Specializations           Performance    Rating        Type of
Year        Persons        In                                  Status'          Trend2    Problems3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Field
Identification and               9/82            1            12     1 Economist
Preparation                                            I_I
Appraisal                        10/82           8            25     1 Economist
1 Fin. Anal.
3 Engineers
I Lawyer)
1 Loan Oficer }
1 Division Chief}'
Post Appraisal                   2/83            3            8      1 Economist
(Procurement)                                                        1 Engineer
1 Procurement
Assistant
Supervision I                    10/83           1            4      1 Engineer                     1              2          C
Supervision II                   11/83           4            11     2 Engineers                    1              2
1 Fin. Anal.
1 Economist
Supervision III                  9/84            1            2      1 Engineer                     1              2          T
Supervision IV                   5/85            1            10     1 Engineer                     1              2          D
Supervision V                    7/85            1            5      1 Engineer                     1              2          I
Supervision Vl                   10/86          2             6      1 Engineer                     1              2         D,T
1 Economist
Supervision VII                  6/90            2            12     1 Engineer                     1              2         D.R,T
L_=  I1 Economist
1 - problom free or minor problems; 2 . moderate problems; 3 - maor probloms
1 * improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deteriorating.
C * Covenant; T - Delay in Implementation; D * Delays in disbursements; I * Institution building; R - Reporting.
4 Pert Time



- 23 -
G.         Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    Total
Preparation    3.6 5    _       _        _       __                          _        3.6
Appraisal      79.4     =        =       =        =       =                           79.4
Negotiations    12.2                                                                  12.2
Supervision    1.0    24.3    13.0    10.3    7.5        6.9      2.3       1.2      68.5
Total'         96.2    24.3    13.8    10.3    7.5       6.9      2.3       1.2      161.7
Exduding PCR propwrotion



