Document of
The World Bank                            FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3588-HU-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$109 MILLION
TO THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
May 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982               March 1983
Currency Unit   =        Forint (Ft)
US$1            =        Ft 36.63                     Ft 40.00
Ftl             =        US$0.027                    US$0.025
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AEEF    -              Energy Supervision Institute
CMEA    -              Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EGI     -              Energy Economy Institute
ERR     -              Economic Rate of Return
FCC     -              Fluid Catalytic Cracker
KBFI    -              Central Institute for Mining Development
MAT     -              Hungarian Aluminium Corporation
MCMC    -              Mecsek Coal Mining Company
MVMT    -              Hungarian Electric Power Trust
NBH     -              National Bank of Hungary
NCMC    -              Nograd Coal Mining Company
OCMC    -              Oroszlany Coal Mining Company
OKGT    -              National Oil and Gas Trust
SDB     -              State Development Bank
TCMC    -              Tatabanya Coal Mining Company
TOE     -              Tons of Oil Equivalent
TPY     -              Tons per Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;             Hungarian People's Republic
Beneficiaries:        Hungarian Aluminum Corporation, National Oil and Gas
Trust, Oroszlany, Nograd, Tatabanya and Mecsek Coal
Mining Companies, Hungarian Electric Power Trust,
National Bank of Hungary and State Development Bank
Amount:               US$109 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:                Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms:      US$105.8 million equivalent of the loan proceeds would
be onlent to the various beneficiaries for 15 years,
including three years of grace at a fixed rate of 14
percent per annum which includes a fee for the foreign
exchange risk which will be borne by the Borrower.
Project
Description:          The main objectives of the project are to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the major
energy-consuming industries, to contain Hungary's energy
import bill both by reducing industrial energy
consumption and by greater use of domestic energy, and
to promote the development and adoption of appropriate
policies, technologies and institutional arrangements
which would strengthen the country's industrial energy
rationalization program. The project consists of four
principal components: (a) institution building; (b)
support for the Energy Rationalization Facility of the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH); (c) support for four
main activities in energy diversification and
conservation, i.e. substitution of domestic coal for
imported coking coal and for heating oil derived mainly
from imports, substitution of natural gas for oil,
substitution of domestic coal for oil in the alumina
industry, and energy rationalization and conservation in
the petroleum refining industry; and (d) technology
development. Upon completion in 1987, the project will
yield substantial economic benefits and foreign exchange
savings by substituting about 1.8 million TOE per year
of cheaper fuels for more expensive petroleum products
and by reducing energy consumption by about 240,600 TOE
per year. Net foreign exchange savings before repayment
of the foreign currency debt associated with the project
are estimated at $299 million equivalent per year. The
project would also result in significant non-
quantifiable benefits, largely of an institution-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
building nature, which would strengthen local
capabilities in national energy management. Two of the
components could give rise to environmental concern, but
adequate measures are in place to ensure that wastes are
satisfactorily disposed of and the air pollution
maintained within acceptable limits. Technical risks
associated with the project are moderate. The main
project risks relate to its complex design, its
wide-ranging scope, the diverse institutions involved,
and the cash flow problems that some of the
beneficiaries might face. Provisions have, however,
been made to minimize all these risks.
Estimated Cost:/l                              ---US$ million equivalent--
Local    Foreign       Total
A.   Institution Building                        0.7        1.1         1.8
B.   Energy Rationalization Facility            36.7       30.6        67.3
C.   Diversification & Conservation Programs  77.3         84.7       162.0
D.   Technology Development                       1.6       5.7         7.3
Base Cost                            116.3     122.1       238.4
Physical Contingencies                     11.6       12.2       23.8
Price Contingencies                        19.6       20.8       40.4
Installed Cost                       147.5     155.1       302.6
Interest during Construction                5.1        1.6        6.7
Front-end fee                                -         0.3        0.3
Total Financing Required             152.6     157.0       309.6
/1 Including taxes and duties of $13.8 million.
Financing Plan:                                ---US million equivalent---
Local    Foreign       Total
Project Beneficiaries/Government           64.6        -         64.6
National Bank of Hungary                   47.4       26.0       73.4
State Development Bank                     40.6       22.0       62.6
IBRD                                        -       109.0       109.0
Total                          152.6      157.0       309.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year      1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                16.3    38.0    41.0    10.4       3.3
Cumulative            16.3    54.3    95.3   105.7   109.0
Rate of Return:        About 57 percent.
Appraisal Report:      No. 4375-HU dated May 18, 1983.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hungarian People's Republic for the equivalent of US$109 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee of $0.3 million) to help finance a
project for industrial energy diversification and conservation. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate. About $105.8 million equivalent of the loan proceeds
would be on-lent for identified sub-projects for a maximum of 15 years
including 3 years grace at a fixed rate of 14 percent per annum, which
includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk which will be borne by the
Borrower. The balance of the loan proceeds of $2.9 million, excluding the
capitalized front-end fee, would be expended directly by the Government for
the institution-building and technology development (apart from the pilot
fluidized bed boiler) components. Cofinancing of about US$100 million is
being sought, all from commercial lending institutions.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.       Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first economic
mission visited the country in May/June 1982 and the Economic Report was
issued to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report No. 4174-HU).
Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is a
small land-locked country with a population of 10.7 million in 1981, covering
an area of 93,000 square km. Dissected by the Danube and bordered by five
countries (Austria to the West, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia to the North and
South, and Romania and the Soviet Union to the East) Hungary has historically
been a nexus of social, cultural, and trade linkages between East and West
Europe. It is a country of relatively meagre natural resource endowments,
although it has significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite and some
hydrocarbons, and advantageous conditions for some agricultural products.  It
has a long history of industrialization in certain branches of industry
(notably textiles and other light industries), which has been extended in the
decades since World War II to the heavy industry branches, including
chemicals, metallurgy and engineering. The country has a homogeneous
population with a single language. Being relatively small and without major
topographical diversity between regions, Hungary is not marked with regional
disparities in development. Incomes are also quite evenly distributed as a
matter of social policy, and most services are of a moderately high standard.
While on the whole the population enjoys a standard of living higher than many
countries in Eastern Europe, wage levels remain low, the choice of consumer
goods is relatively limited, and there are still major deficiencies in housing
and in access to potable water and sewerage facilities, particularly in rural
areas.



-2-
The Economic System
4.       The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment,
production and trade decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war
period when planning, as in other Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was
fully centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Planning remains a significant instrument in Hungary, and the
State uses the plan to set the framework for the economy.  In the period since
1968, the year which marked the major break with the previous system, the
emphasis in reform has been twofold: on strengthening the influence of the
market on enterprise activities and on developing a system of "Economic
Regulators", through which the State maintains control of overall economic
activity. These regulators include credit control through the centralized
National Bank and the State Development Bank which are the only two sources of
credit for enterprises; price and wage regulation through centrally determined
formulae; and the regulation of the net surplus from production through a
series of fiscal measures and control over enterprise reserve funds.
Enterprises are free to make independent investment decisions, but for larger
investments for which credit is needed from the National Bank, these are
subject to the approval of the central authorities. The State itself has
direct control over certain investments--State investments--generally in
infrastructure and large capital intensive plant, which are financed from
budget sources through the State Development Bank.
5.       The State-owned sector, comprising all enterprises, state farms and
agriculture cooperatives, accounts for some 90% of both investment and output
in the economy. Private activity is evident in the so-called "second economy"
in which individuals enter into production, trade and service activities for
their own benefit. The second economy is particularly important in
agriculture, where, for certain products, output from private holdings is a
large share of the total. In industry, also, there is an increasing practice
of workers in enterprises utilizing the industrial plant, out of hours, for
their own benefit. This has recently led to the establishing of specific
cooperatives for this purpose. These second economy activities are
encouraged, as a means to raise productivity, to increase capacity utilization
and to enhance personal incomes.
Structure of Economy and Long-term Trends
6.       The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP, (41% in
1981 with 41% of total employment), reflecting the more advanced degree of
industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high share of
heavy industry in total industrial output, (66% in 1981) reflecting the
emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries; (c) compared to
many developed countries, a relatively high share of the labor force employed
in agriculture (21% in 1981) implying that, in principle, significant scope
exists for productivity growth and further shifts of labor out of this sector;
(d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign trade (about 40%). The share of
transport, trade and services in GDP in 1981 accounted for 31%, and 39% of



total employment. Hungary's high degree of trade dependence makes it
vulnerable to shifts in world trade and prices, and is a principal factor
underlying the reforms which aim at increasing the adaptability of the economy
to changes in world markets. Hungary imports over half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. While
manufactures are important in total exports (65 % in 1981) these are more
important in the exports to the CMEA countries; the major share of exports to
convertible currency markets is comprised of agricultural commodities (about
33% in 1981) and semi-finished products (about 34%).
7.       Over the past decade the GDP has grown in real terms by an average of
5.2% per annum, led by industry (6.0% p.a.) and services (5.1% p.a.).
Agriculture grew less rapidly at around 3.3% p.a. The impact of these growth
trends on incomes and employment was influenced by Hungary's slow population
growth and by the general scarcity of labor in the country. The fact that
Hungary has an almost stagnant population, which grew by 0.35% per annum in
the period 1970-81, implies that growth in GDP has brought an almost equal
growth in per capita income. This has meant that in the past the State has
been able to maintain a high investment rate while still maintaining a
significant real increase in personal consumption, which grew by 4% per annum
over the past decade. However, wages remain low in Hungary, and in 1980 the
average wage in industry was Fts. 3,960 (equivalent to US$122) per month. The
equivalent wage in agriculture was Fts. 3,790 (US$110). Social benefits (in
both cash and services) are, however, a significant part of household incomes.
8.       The labor force has also been stagnant over the past decade,
reflecting the fact that the population of working age has changed little in
size during this period, and there is virtually no unemployment. There is an
overall scarcity of labor in the economy, but there are also certain pockets
of potential labor supply, both in agriculture and in industry, where there is
a degree of overmanning and some employment in obsolete industries. This has
been rationalised in recent years by shifting labor out of industry.   In the
period 1975 to 1981 total manufacturing employment in industry declined by
about 180,000 (about 10% of the 1981 total of 1.7 million). In agriculture,
total employment declined by about 200,000 during the first half of the decade
(from 1.3 million in 1970 to 1.1 million in 1975) but in the period since
1975, agricultural employment has remained virtually unchanged.  Partly this
is explained by the growth of employment in rural-based farm-related
manufacturing activities and services, which are recorded statistically as
agricultural employment. Employment in the services sector (trade, transport
and other services) has absorbed the labor released from industry and
agriculture, and has risen by over 350,000 since 1970 to a total of close to
2.0 million in 1981.
9.       Sectoral productivity differentials are narrower in Hungary than in
many developing countries. In 1981 the productivity in industry was 40%
greater than in both agriculture and services (about Fts. 150,000 per worker
employed in industry, compared to about Fts. 107,000 per worker in both
agriculture and services--in 1976 Fts.). However, these differentials have
widened significantly since 1975 as labor has shifted out of industry and into
the service sectors. In 1975 industrial productivity was only about 19%
greater than in agriculture.



-4-
Government Policies
10.      Given Hungary's income level, the lack of marked regional
disparities, and the relatively equal distribution of income which its
socialist policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do
not rank as the first priorities of policy. While the raising of general
living standards is a major objective, the focus of policy in order to achieve
it is on the structural issues of investment, growth, efficiency and, more
recently, on the external balance. Present government policy stems from the
watershed period of events occurring between 1978-82. As early as 1978, it
was recognized that the pursuit of high investment and rapid growth based on
foreign borrowing to cover the ensuing trade deficits could not be continued;
this realization was accentuated by the impact of the second oil shock in
1979. Accepting that short-term growth would need to be subordinated for a
period to the need for fundamental adjustments in the economy, the authorities
embarked on a dual management strategy - to stabilize the economy through
severe investment and expenditure restraints on the one hand, and, on the
other, to pursue with a renewed commitment the reform of the economic system,
seen as the means to bring about the needed structural adjustments in
production. In 1980, a new package of reforms emphasizing pricing of domestic
products on the basis of world market prices was introduced. This new
affirmation of policy, however, has been confronted by the advent of a severe
liquidity crisis early in 1982 (described in more detail below) which has made
the immediate pursuit of structural adjustment goals, together with other
social objectives such as maintaining and improving the living standard of the
population, more difficult. In this situation, therefore, it is necessary to
distinguish between the short term and the longer run objectives of the
government.
11.      In the short term the country's policy options are heavily
circumscribed by the financial constraints imposed by the present liquidity
crisis. During 1982 the country faced both a financial crisis, and a loss of
confidence within the banking community, already made nervous by debt problems
in other countries. In this situation the Government's paramount goal--now
supported by an IMF Standby Agreement--is to restore its financial balances
and reconstitute its depleted reserves through a stabilization program, even
more stringent than that in force before 1982, and thereby also to restore
external confidence so that foreign borrowing can be resumed.
12.      The Government also recognizes the need to make longer run structural
adjustments, but can do so at present only inasmuch as present financial
constraints permit. These structural objectives include institutional changes
as well as changes in the structure of economic activity to reflect changed
conditions facing Hungary in world markets. Of principal importance here is
the need to become more competitive in convertible currency markets for
manufactures, to increase the exportable surplus in agricultural products, and
to reduce imports of energy and raw materials. While it is true that in the
past energy imports have been available at favorable prices from CMEA
countries (principally the Soviet Union), there are limits on the volume of
these imports (around the levels reached in 1981), and purchases above these
amounts are at higher prices and paid for in convertible currencies. The
growth of energy imports, therefore, will become an increasing hard currency
drain as they rise above present levels. In essence, therefore, the country's
structural adjustment goals center around the need to raise the net
convertible currency yield from production and trade. To do this will require
greater efficiency in production, improved product quality and, in turn an



- 5 -
upgrading of the country's productive technologies, much of which are outdated
and based on energy- and input-intensive technologies developed in the CMEA
countries.
13.      While the economic reforms are the centrepiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set in place certain measures to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
two priority lines of credit in the National Bank--for energy-saving and
export-oriented investments--and the adoption of certain 'centralized
development programs' in priority industries through which the State
coordinates and supports enterprise investments. Also, in the general credit
policy of the National Bank in force since the stabilization program,
investments are not favored unless they contribute to structural adjustment
goals. At present only smaller, quick-yielding projects in high value added
activities are being approved.
Recent Economic Developments
14.      Hungary's liquidity crisis is owed both to certain failings in past
country policy as well as to developments in the international situation which
were beyond its control. By 1981 past policies had led to an accumulated
foreign debt that exceeded $10 billion. The convertible medium- and long-term
debt service was pre-empting about a quarter of all convertible export
revenues. In this situation the turn of events in Poland and mounting debt
problems in many developing countries (including Romania), led, early in 1982,
to a sudden loss of confidence in Eastern Europe in the world financial
markets. Simultaneously several major depositors withdrew foreign currency
balances held in the National Bank of Hungary and western banks curtailed all
new lending to the country. To meet its payments obligations, for both short
term and other debt outstanding, the country had to use its reserves, which
accordingly declined precipitously. In the three months from December 1981 to
March 1982, reserves in convertible currencies fell from $1.69 billion to
$0.47 billion, equal to barely one month's convertible imports.
15.      It was evident, therefore, that a renewed stabilization effort was
needed. Through severe credit restrictions, and other measures, the
Government has successively reduced the investment share--and continues to do
so under the IMF Standby program--to about 30% in 1982. There is expected to
be a further reduction in 1983.  To do this the authorities have put in place
a series of measures to restrict the availability of all enterprise own funds
for investments. This includes a 25% tax on any investment started after
June 1, 1982 which does not generate convertible exports or material savings;
contribution rates to compulsory enterprise reserve funds were increased by
5%; interest paid on reserve fund deposits was reduced and a tax of 4%-6% was
placed on enterprise development funds; and taxes on the wage bill were
increased. In addition investment funded through the State budget were
reduced by suspending all new State investments.
16.      Correspondingly, recent growth has been sharply lower than for the
past several years. Growth in the GDP for the period 1979-81 was only 1.8%
per annum compared to an average of 4% to 8% per annum in the period 1974-78,
both in real terms, and it was no longer possible to maintain the growth of
consumption to which the population had become accustomed. In contrast to the
4% real growth over the past decade, consumption grew by only 2% in the period
1979-81, and is likely to be stagnant or declining in 1982-83 when average GDP
growth is expected to be only 1.4%.



-6-
Foreign Trade ani Payments
17.      Through much of the last decade Hungary's foreign trade has shown
significant trade deficits in both convertible and non-convertible currency
accounts, and the country borrowed abroad to finance its high investment and
growth rates. Since 1980, however, and with greater urgency since the
financial crisis of 1982, Hungary has managed to achieve significant surpluses
in the convertible trade account. Thus, the peak convertible deficit of $784
million in 1978 was transformed into a surplus of $444 million by 1981, and an
estimated surplus of $770 million by the end of 1982.  These results were
achieved partly through reductions in import intensity, and partly through
expansion of export revenues. From 1978 to 1981 convertible currency
merchandise exports grew by 54% in nominal terms, while GDP grew only 23% and
imports by 12%. A significant share of these exports (almost one quarter in
1981) was accounted for by earnings from exports to Socialist countries, paid
for in convertible currencies--but success in these markets in the short run
may not be a sound indicator of Hungary's longer run competitiveness in
convertible currency markets at large.
External Debt
18.      Total debt outstanding in June 1982 was $8.95 billion, of which debt
in convertible currencies was $7.38 billion. This represents a reduction in
the level of debt outstanding at end-1981 (when the total had been $10.03
billion), following the repayment--largely from reserves--of $1.3 billion in
convertible currency debt which fell due in early 1982 and which the banks
were not prepared to renew. Of the total convertible debt outstanding in June
1982, some 25% ($1.9 billion) was in short-term paper. Given the slight
improvement in Hungary's standing with the banks since mid-1982, it is
expected that some renewals of existing short-term liabilities will now be
accommodated, although the Government's policy is to further reduce the share
of short-term debt in the total. In 1982 the debt service ratio for all
medium- and long-term debt combined and for all export earnings was about 16
percent. In terms of convertible currency debt service measured against
convertible export earnings, the ratio was about 25%.
Medium Term Outlook
19.      The growth prospects during the next 2-3 years are likely to remain
highly constrained by the need for continued domestic stabilization. The
retrenchment of investment, curtailment of imported inputs, and the reduction
of domestic demand are likely to have a particularly severe effect on
industrial growth, reinforcing the impact of sluggish demand conditions in
world markets. If the world market recovers, Hungarian industry and exports
will benefit. However, the country's debt obligations will remain a severe
drain on foreign currency earnings for the next 2-3 years, and external credit
over this period may continue to be relatively restricted. Even though
agriculture may be less affected by the stabilization program, and significant
growth may continue in this sector, it seems unlikely that the overall average
GDP growth rate will exceed 2% per annum for the period up to 1986. In the
years after that, assuming the stabilization program has successfully restored
the external balance, and assuming the availability of substantial external
credit, growth may be expected to follow or even run ahead of the world market



recovery. By this time the impact of the country's restructuring programs in
industry and agriculture may be evident in significant increases in exportable
products, while the import savings program in energy would add yet further to
foreign currency resources. In the second half of this decade, therefore, it
may be reasonable to expect GDP growth rates at least in the range of 3% to 4%
per annum.
External Capital Requirements
20.      Hungary's immediate financial goals are to reconstitute its reserves,
*            to reduce somewhat its outstanding debt and lengthen its term structure, and
to rebuild external confidence in the economy. Given the high level of
medium- and long-term debt service in convertible currency ($1.4 billion in
1982) and the depleted level of reserves ($745 million in September 1982,
equal to only 45 days' imports), these goals can only be achieved through
continued borrowing from abroad, even allowing for the low rates of GDP growth
and the trade surpluses expected under the stabilization program in the next
few years. For 1983, assuming that convertible exports grow at no less than
4% in real terms (with a projected increase in export prices of 6%) and
imports decline by 4% in real terms (with a price increase of 8%), gross
borrowing requirements in convertible currencies are estimated to be around
$1.0 billion. This would allow for a marginal accumulation of reserves, to
about $1.1 billion. In the period 1984-86 the debt service burden on medium-
and long-term debt is expected to rise to around $2.0 billion (about 26% of
convertible exports) so that, even with continuing modest growth, an
anticipated increase in import growth to 5% p.a. (12% in current terms) and a
continued growth of exports at no less than 4% p.a. (11% in current terms),
gross borrowing requirements will increase to about $1.4 billion per year.
While Bank and Fund membership will provide some of these capital needs, and
while Hungary has recently successfully re-entered the market with a $200
million club loan, it remains to be seen whether and when the commercial banks
will be responsive to loan requests by Hungary at these levels.
21.      Although the non-convertible balance of payments has traditionally
been in deficit, debt service is small (3-4%), due to the concessionary
interest rates obtained on loans from the Socialist countries. Overcoming
current difficulties in the capital account balance will require gross medium-
and long-term loans of about $300 million per year until 1985. In subsequent
years borrowing is expected to decline below amortization levels, in line with
the Government's current policy of gradually reducing borrowing requirements
in non-convertible currency through reductions in the trade deficit. By the
mid-80s the total medium- and long-term debt in non-convertible currency is
projected to rise from the 1981 level of $1.3 billion to $1.6 billion, but
fall to about $1.1 billion by the end of the decade.
Creditworthiness
22.      Hungarian economic management is well organized, with effective
central institutions and clearly articulated policy objectives. Despite this,
there have been aspects of the management of the economy over the last decade
which could be questioned. In particular, the failure to persist with the
1968 reforms and the resort to foreign borrowings as a substitute for early
adjustments to the first oil shock, have made more painful the adjustments



- 8 -
that now have to be made, and have left the economy with serious wage/price
distortions and major producer and consumer subsidies, which detract from the
goal of applying market signals to enterprise decisions.
23.      The point to be recognized now is that the Government, since 1978/9,
has committed itself to serious pursuit of the reforms and is determined to
impose the adjustments that are needed, at a pace that political
considerations will permit. The Bank staff is in agreement with the broad
thrust of present economic policy. During the economic mission and subsequent
evaluation of Hungary's economic policies, there has been close collaboration
with the Fund, and we support the short-term stabilization measures being
adopted under the IMF standby agreement which include restraint of real income
and investment, reduction of subsidies, and a more active exchange rate policy
for balance of payments adjustment.l/ In view of the country's record, its
effective management system, and its general prospects for achieving an
improved external balance in the mid-80s and for re-establishing a moderate
rate of growth, Hungary is considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II; BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
24.      The proposed loan would be the first to Hungary with a total
commitment of $109 million to support the country's industrial energy
diversification and conservation program. A second loan of $130.4 million for
a grain storage and mechanization project is being concurrently processed. In
line with the Bank's assistance strategy, which is to support the country's
medium-term structural adjustment goals, both projects will make significant
contributions to these goals, by upgrading technologies, improving process
efficiencies, reducing costs and, in consequence, yielding significant net
gains in convertible currency earnings or savings. It is estimated that the
net hard currency yield of both projects combined, at full operation, will be
over $400 million a year (some $299 million from the proposed project; and
$114 million from the grain storage and mechanization project).
25.      Following the recent completion of the Bank's Economic Report, the
program of possible lending activity is still being formulated for the next
few years.  Given the country's relatively high per capita income, the Bank's           b
lending to Hungary will be limited in time and in amount. The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry, energy and related
transport. Bank assistance would generally aim at strengthening the thrust of
1/ The 13-month IMF standby agreement was signed in December 1982, and is for
SDR475 ($525 million) of which the first drawing, plus the total SDR72
($80 million) allocated from the compensatory financing facility, was made
in December 1982. Repurchases will begin in 1986.



- 9 -
the adjustment process, which is on export generation; import substitution,
particularly in the energy sector, through increased domestic production and
conservation; plant upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production
costs through more efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity
and product quality; and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration
of enterprise activities and encourage smaller, more efficient industries to
produce components. Possible future projects being discussed would take into
consideration these priority objectives.
26.      The Hungarians are also looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets.  In this respect they have
requested that we help them secure cofinancing for the proposed project and
also the grain storage and mechanization project, utilizing the new 'B' loan
type instruments. Through these instruments the Bank intends to introduce
Hungary to commercial banks which may not have previously been engaged in
Hungarian offerings, and thus obtain external funds additional to those from
Hungary's traditional sources.
27.      The Bank also expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned economic
and sector work covers energy, industry and foreign trade, and a review of the
investment plan. These would provide valuable policy inputs for the Bank's
dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced to increase the impact of market forces and to
increase enterprise autonomy. Training through EDI is also being undertaken
and two well-received procurement seminars have been held in Budapest.
28.      Hungary is not yet a member of IFC but preliminary discussions have
been held.
29.      The projects in the pipeline would represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they would provide a substantial net
addition to the present flow of convertible currency available on longer
repayment terms. The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to
constitute about 0.5 percent of Hungary's total projected convertible debt in
FY84; the Bank's share in Hungary's debt service payment in FY84 would be less
than 0.2 percent.
Part III. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
30.      Hungary's domestic resources at present provide about half of its
total primary energy requirements. Currently, known commercial energy
resources consist of substantial deposits of coal and small reserves of oil
and natural gas. Firewood, agricultural waste, geothermal water and
hydropower are also utilized but account for less than five percent of total
consumption. A nuclear power station, now under construction, will consist of
four 440 MW units, the first of which was commissioned at the end of 1982.



- 10 -
31.      The most important domestic energy source is coal, the mineable
reserves of which are estimated at about 4 billion tons, equivalent to 100
years supply at the current rate of mining. Lignite, comprising about 65
percent of the reserves is mostly suitable for open pit mining and because of
its low heat content, can be used only for power generation. Bituminous coals
with the highest calorific values account for only 13 percent of the reserves
and the remainder is made up of brown coal with high ash and sulphur
contents. The quality of run-of-mine coal has been declining. Coal
production is below mining capacity because the mines currently are not
capable of producing the higher quality coal required by communal and
household users.  A program of renovation and extension of coal washing and
briquetting capacities has been initiated to produce coal of satisfactory
quality for these users. Proven and recoverable reserves of natural gas are
estimated at about 125 billion m3, equivalent to about 16 years supply at
current production rates. Domestic production, however, supplies only about
60 percent of total requirements and the balance is imported mainly from the
USSR. Exploitable reserves of crude oil are estimated at between 15 and 20
million tons and at the current production rate of 2 million tons per year
represent about 20 percent of consumption. Domestic power stations supply
about 74 percent of Hungary's electrical energy needs. Total installed
capacity is about 5,400 MW. Half of the 47 power stations burn coal and the
other half fuel oil or natural gas. By 1987, when all four units of the
nuclear power plant are scheduled to be operational, part of the more
expensive oil and gas fired power stations will have been closed down.
Energy Supply and Consumption
32.      Hungary consumes about 30 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE) of
energy per year. Since 1970, the dependence on imported energy has increased
steadily and, by 1981, over 50 percent of Hungary's energy supply was imported
in the form of hydrocarbons and electricity. Primary energy consumption
increased from 23.5 million TOE in 1970 to a peak of 32.9 million TOE in
1979. Despite crude oil imports at favorable prices from the USSR, an
increasing share was purchased in convertible currency from both Socialist and
non-Socialist countries (about 33 percent in 1979). These convertible
currency imports contributed to the serious balance of payments difficulties
in the late 1970s.  Strenuous efforts were made to reduce consumption, and
hence contain the energy import bill. Consequently, primary energy
consumption declined by about 9 percent from the 1979 level to 30 million TOE
in 1981.  However, projected primary energy consumption after 1985 is expected
to increase steadily to 33 million TOE by 1990. The present annual per capita
final energy consumption of 2.2 TOE, is considerably above the middle income
developing countries' average of 0.6 TOE. Industry accounts for 49 percent of
total energy consumption, followed by the household and communal sector (29.3
percent), agriculture (7.5 percent), transport (6.7 percent) and the other
sectors (7.5 percent).



- 11 
33.      Two sets of internal prices for fuels are in force in Hungary.
Producer prices (ex-mine and ex-refinery) are those paid by the productive
sector (industry and agriculture) and consumer prices are those paid by
households. Both are set by the Government. Producer prices for most
petroleum products are comparable with international prices, except for
gasoline which is sold at about 50 percent over international prices. The
Government's policy is to maintain this parity in the future. Producer prices
for natural gas, coal and briquettes are set at levels to encourage industry
to switch to these fuels from petroleum. If, however, users are not
influenced to change by the pricing structure, the central authorities make
appropriate fuel allocations. The producer price of natural gas is close to
the international price obtained when based on fuel oil equivalent and are
considerably above both import and domestic production costs. However, in
setting the producer prices of solid fuels to encourage switching, the
Government appears to have overestimated the inducements needed. Prices of
solid fuels are insufficient for some mines and briquette manufacturers to
cover costs of production and obtain a reasonable return on capital. The
Energy Economy Authority, responsible for energy-related matters, is pressing
for an appropriate increase in these prices, which would still provide
sufficient incentives to switch to solid fuels.
34.      As a matter of social policy, consumer prices of energy (with the
exception of gasoline) are subsidized. However, under the IMF standby
agreement (paragraph 23), the Government has agreed to reduce consumer
subsidies, including those on energy and has planned to eliminate energy-
related subsidies by 1987. The relative pricing structure is set to encourage
households to change from heating oil to gas, coal or briquettes.  An added
inducement is the cessation of production of oil stoves and spare parts and
the domestic production of new models of coal-burning heaters.
Energy Plans and Policies
35.      In order to reduce the mounting energy import bill, the Government
introduced rigorous policy measures including considerable increases in
producer prices of energy in the mid-1970s to conserve energy and encourage
substitution of domestic fuels for imports. The Government's main objectives
are to; (a) reduce overall energy consumption; (b) develop economically
viable indigenous energy resources;  (c) substitute indigenous fuels (coal,
natural gas, and electric power) for imported petroleum;
(d) modify the refinery product pattern to better match domestic demand; and
(e) through reduction in unit consumption of energy, improve the
competitiveness of Hungarian industry.
36.      Coal production is planned to be increased by about 15 per cent over
the next decade, although indicated reserves could support a larger deve-
lopment. Financial and manpower constraints would appear to preclude a
greater increase, but the overriding consideration is that no new coal-fired
power stations are being planned, since the Government considers the nuclear
power station sufficient to provide the extra generating capacity required
until 1990. Whether this is the optimal policy to pursue is not clear at this
time and the Government is now reviewing the matter. Increased coal use in
the household and industrial sectors has been constrained by the poor quality



- 12 -
of local coal and the lack of technology to use it economically and without
excessive pollution.  Exploration for oil and gas is being actively pursued
with a view to meeting the somewhat ambitious five-year target of discovering
an extra 60 million tons of recoverable reserves. The refinery industry is
being restructured to improve its efficiency and to better balance the supply
and demand of petroleum products. The net effect of the investments planned
including those financed by the proposed project will be to reduce the total
amount of crude oil imported and processed but to increase the quantities of
much needed lighter distillates, and to transform vacuum residual oil into a
usable fuel for the domestic market as well as for exports. Even after the
completion of this program, middle distillates are likely to be imported.
37.      The Government is making funds available, both from the State Budget
channelled through the State Development Bank (SDB) and through the Energy
Rationalization Facility operated by the National Bank of Hungary (NBH), to
implement a variety of energy conservation and interfuel substitution
projects. This Facility primarily supports small investments in industry.
About 600 projects have so far received assistance since its inception in
early 1981, for a total of about Ft 11 billion ($300 million) and another Ft 4
billion ($110 million) have been allocated for the remaining two years of the
present five-year plan period.  However, the current shortage of financial
resources in Hungary, particularly of foreign exchange for the import of
specialized equipment, has raised uncertainties about the future level of
implementation of this priority program.
Sector Organization
38.      All entities responsible for the production, transport and
distribution of energy in Hungary come under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Industry. The ministry provides overall guidelines for the operation of
the subsectors; allocates energy products to the major consumers; imports
energy; sets prices; supervises the formulation and implementation of
energy-related plans; and coordinates the mobilization and allocation of
investment funds. The energy sector plan is coordinated with those of other
sectors by the National Planning Office. Within the Ministry of Industry is
the Energy Economy Authority which promotes and oversees the implementation of
the industrial energy conservation program.  The Authority is directly
responsible to the Secretary of State for Energy in the ministry. Two
institutions work under the aegis of the Energy Economy Authority, the Energy
Economy Institute (EGI), which is an engineering institute responsible for
research and development of new systems and equipment for energy conservation,
and the Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF), responsible for supervision of
energy audits, inspection of equipment, and technical approval of energy
savings projects.
39.      The oil and gas industry is operated by the state-owned National Oil
and Gas Trust (OKGT).  The trust consists of 24 enterprises which are involved
in exploration and production of oil and gas, crude oil refining, petroleum
products marketing, gas transportation and supply, design and fabrication of
pipelines and specialized equipment, and research and development. The Energy
Economy Authority and the National Planning Office supervise OKGT's



- 13 -
operations. Coal mining was formerly the responsibility of a Coal Trust, but
in January 1981 it was dissolved and replaced by independent mining
companies. Nonetheless, there is still considerable central control with the
governriient setting prices. The Central Institute for Mining Development
(KBFI) does research and development in coal production and utilization as
well as engineering, contracting and project supervision. All aspects of the
electric power industry are handled by the Hungarian Electric Power Trust
*           (MVMT) which consists of 22 enterprises and owns 97 percent of the generating
capacity. The remaining 3 percent are captive plants operated by large
industrial enterprises. MVMT also supplies process steam for industry and
district heating systems.
Energy Conservation in Industry
40.      The major thrust of the Government's strategy in the energy sector is
to reduce overall energy consumption and to substitute indigenous energy
sources for imported hydrocarbons wherever possible. The central piece of
this strategy is energy conservation and diversification in industry which
accounts for about half of Hungary's final energy consumption. The chemical,
metallurgical and building materials subsectors are the major consumers,
together accounting for 73 percent of industrial consumption.  In all these
industries, plants were erected at a time when petroleum was cheap and the
design of many of these units were aimed at simplicity rather than minimizing
energy consumption. Moreover, they were mnstly designed to burn liquid fuels
rather than coal or gas. Rapid economic returns can thus be obtained through
the conversion of oil-based heating and steam raising equipment to the use of
cheaper indigenous fuels. Also, energy conservation measures combined with
the erection of secondary processing facilities in the oil refining industry
could improve the balance between output pattern and domestic demand, and lead
to reduced imports of both crude oil and expensive distillates.
41.      While the structure of Hungarian industry is the major cause of the
sector's overall energy intensity, industrial plants consume a relatively high
proportion of energy compared to similar facilities elsewhere, indicating that
substantial savings can still be achieved through energy conservation. Energy
consumption in the refinery, fertilizer and metallurgical industries is
*           particularly high.  For example, energy consumption in the most energy
intensive stage of aluminum production - alumina smelting - is 15 percent
higher than comparable plants abroad. Overall, preliminary estimates indicate
that at least 15 percent of total industrial energy consumption could be saved
by the introduction of modern techniques and retrofitting existing
facilities. Moreover, there is good scope for switching from petroleum
products, obtained mainly from imported crude oil, to cheaper indigenous fuels
such as coal and natural gas. The major constraints in executing such a
program are the shortage of finance and lack of necessary know-how at the
plant level.



- 14
Bank Role in the Energy Sector
42.      The Bank's role in the energy sector is to assist (i) the Government
in achieving one of its priority objectives of reducing dependence on imported
energy to relieve pressures on its external balance; (ii) in transferring
technology from abroad; and (iii) in institution-building. Important measures
expected to achieve the above-mentioned objectives are increased production
and exploitation of economically viable sources of domestic energy to replace
imports; substitution of cheaper domestic fuels, particularly coal and natural
gas for the more expensive imports; and reduction in the energy intensity of
the economy through conservation measures and introduction of new more
fuel-efficient technologies. Since industry accounts for the major share of
final energy consumption and offers considerable scope for quick reduction of
high unit consumption, the proposed integrated project is designed to assist
Hungary's energy conservation and diversification efforts in the industrial
sector. Reduction in unit consumption of energy through the adoption of more
efficient technologies and substitution of imported fuel for cheaper domestic
energy would also reduce production costs and increase Hungary's
competitiveness in export markets. The institution-building component of the
project (paragraph 46) is designed to strengthen local capabilities in
national energy management and the technology development component
(paragraphs 57 and 58) will assist in transferring from abroad the state of
the art technology for low-polluting coal-burning steam-raising facilities to
be used in heavily populated areas and newer technologies for converting brown
coal into coke. Both these technologies would be further tested and developed
in Hungary to best meet local requirements.  During the course of appraisal,
the Bank assisted substantially in improving the project scope and enhancing
the scope of technologies selected for the various sub-components and also
started a dialogue with the Hungarian authorities concerning subsidies on
energy prices and interest rate rebates granted to sub-borrowers of the NBH
Energy Rationalization Facility. As a result, the Energy Economy Authority
(EEA) has recommended to the Government that the producer price of solid fuels
be increased and the Government has agreed not to apply interest rate rebates
on the proceeds of Bank loan onlent to the Energy Rationalization Facility
sub-borrowers. Further, the Government has agreed to review annually the
adequacy of interest rates for loans extended for energy investments, and
adjust them to maintain a positive spread over the rate of inflation
(paragraph 62). Finally, the financial covenants included in the project
(paragraph 66) should contribute to the financial restructuring of several of
the project entities and maintain all of them in a financial condition
consistent with their increasing market orientation.
Part IV. THE PROJECT
43.      The Bank initially reviewed the industrial and energy sectors during
the first economic mission in May 1982 and highlighted areas requiring
attention. Following the Government's request for assistance, an
identification mission visited Hungary in September-October 1982. The project
was appraised in October-November 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
in April/May 1983. The Hungarian Delegation was headed by Mr. Miklos Pulai,
Deputy Chairman of the National Planning Office and Governor of the World Bank



- 15 -
for Hungary, and included representatives of the project entities. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation
Project" No. 4375-HU dated May 18, 1983 is being circulated separately. The
main features of the project are given in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III. A map (IBRD No. 16881) of Hungary is attached showing the major
project components.
Project Objectives, Description and Implementation
44.      The main objectives of the project are to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the major energy-consuming industries; to contain Hungary's
energy import bill both by reducing industrial energy consumption and by
greater use of domestic energy resources; to help restructure all refining
operations so that the output better matches requirements modified partly by
the ongoing energy conservation efforts; and to promote the development and
adoption of appropriate policies, technologies and institutional arrangements
which would strengthen the country's industrial energy rationalization
program. The project consists of four principal components. (i) institution
building aimed at strengthening the capabilities of institutions concerned
with the detailed preparation and execution of the long-term program for
industrial energy diversification and conservation through the provision of
monitoring equipment, services of foreign experts and training abroad; (ii)
support for about 62 small industrial energy-saving projects receiving credits
from the Energy Rationalization Facility of the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH); (iii) support for four major energy diversification and conservation
programs: (a) substitution of indigenous coal for heating oil and imported
coking coal, (b) substitution of natural gas for oil products, (c) substitu-
tion of domestic coal for oil in the alumina industry and (d) rationalization
and conservation in the petroleum refining industry; and (iv) technology
development to support the transfer from abroad of modern technologies for the
production of coal products and for burning coal without deleterious
environmental effects.
Institution Building Component
45.      Although institutions are in place to oversee the industrial energy
*            program, they are not fully effective because of shortage of qualified staff
and lack of modern energy monitoring equipment. Moreover, there are several
institutions responsible for energy matters in the various subsectors and
these activities are not currently coordinated by a single agency. There is a
clear need for such coordination and also for assigning priorities among
projects. Resources at present are allocated from the center virtually on a
first-come-first-served basis. Although projects thus selected have high
economic rates of return there is no overview of their relative priorities and
impact.
46.      In order to assist the Ministry of Industry become more effective in
industrial energy conservation matters, the project would seek to strengthen
both the Energy Economy Authority and the Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF)
(paragraph 38). Within the Energy Economy Authority, a small group of highly
competent senior experts would be designated to initiate, coordinate and
supervise energy conservation subsector studies necessary for the detailed



- 16 -
formulation of the long-term program for industrial energy diversification and
conservation for use in the next five-year plan. These studies would be
carried out by competent Hungarian agencies in cooperation with foreign
experts. Within AEEF, an energy conservation center would be created to take
the lead in implementing government programs and coordinate the activities of
all agencies involved in energy conservation. The center would also organize
energy conservation campaigns, provide technical assistance including energy
audits to enterprises and assist them in preparing economically viable
investment programs. Other activities would include: the establishment (in
cooperation with technical institutions and universities) of training programs
for managers and engineers, some of whom would be sent abroad for training;
initiation of research and development; and execution of demonstration
projects. AEEF would also be provided with modern equipment to monitor energy
use. Selection of consultants for the Energy Economy Authority and for AEEF
will start in May 1983 and be completed by end 1983. The detailed formulation
of the long-term program for industrial energy diversification and
conservation including sub-sector studies will be completed by November 30,
1984 and the energy conservation center will be established by March 31,
1985. The Government has provided assurances in these respects (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.04(b) and 3.02). The total cost is estimated at $2.3
million of which $1.4 million, all in foreign exchange, would be financed from
the proposed loan.
Energy Rationalization Facility Component
47.      The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) which is the country's central
bank, also provides commercial and development banking services to enterprises
and cooperatives for activities consistent with the national plan. Through
its Energy Rationalization Facility, it extends credit to enterprises for
energy conservation and diversification projects. While coordination and
monitoring of the Energy Rationalization Facility of NBH is the responsibility
of a small unit directly under the Managing Director of Industry, appraisal
and supervision is carried out by the various credit departments of NBH.
These departments, however, have delegated the technical appraisal and
supervision to the Energy Supervision Institute (AEEF). These arrangements
are considered to be satisfactory. The NBH is currently unable to meet all
demand for energy investment credits and many attractive projects have been
delayed pending availability of funds.
48.      The proposed loan would provide about $29.0 million through this
facility to finance the direct foreign exchange requirements of energy-saving
sub-projects. Sixty-two have been jointly identified by the Bank and NBH as
suitable for consideration for financing under the project. Of these, 20
sub-projects for which technical, economic and financial information have been
furnished to the Bank, have been reviewed and found acceptable. For the
remaining 42 sub-projects NBH is in the process of preparing the necessary
data and has agreed to submit them by December 31, 1983. These sub-projects
would be eligible for financing only after a satisfactory review of the data
by the Bank (NBH Project Agreement, paragraph l(c) of the Schedule). Most of
these projects typically involve waste heat recovery, more efficient
industrial heating, process improvements to lower energy consumption and
energy diversification through the substitution of petroleum-based fuels and



- 17 -
electricity by natural gas and domestic coal. A small number of projects
would produce insulation materials and coal stoves to replace oil burning
units. Most of the projects are small and can be satisfactorily implemented
by the work force of the enterprises concerned. The others are not
technically complex and can be implemented using local engineering and
construction companies. However, in order to ensure that appropriate
arrangements are made for procurement and implementation, EGI has been
v           appointed by NBH to supervise all projects receiving Bank finance through the
facility. EGI will coordinate import procurement to ensure adherence to Bank
guidelines and consolidate similar equipment requirements of sub-projects into
S           packages large enough for international competitive bidding (ICB).
Implementation is planned to commence in July 1983 and by June 1985, 50
percent of the projects are to be completed; the remainder by June 1986.
Major Energy Diversification and Conservation Programs
49.      Another important objective of the industrial energy program is to
replace petroleum products used by industry, communal users and households
with natural gas or coal as appropriate. Four major programs which support
this effort would be financed under the project; the first three involve
inter-fuel substitution while the fourth would promote conservation and change
the refinery product mix to match more closely domestic demand patterns.
Details of the four programs follow.
50.      Program for Substitution of Indigenous Coal for Heating oil and
Imported Coking Coal, A major element of this program is to convert about 50
percent of domestic and communal users of gas oil for heating to coal by
1985. In order to facilitate this conversion the quality of run-of-mine coal
which is currently unsuitable for the purpose must be upgraded. The project
would assist by providing an increased supply of coking coal, improved coal
and briquettes through the installation of treatment facilities and a
briquetting plant. A new coarse coal washing plant will be installed at
Nagybatony for the Nbgrad coal mining company (NCMC), a new coal fines washing
plant will be provided for the existing facilities of the Tatabanya coal
mining company (TCMC), an air separation unit will be added to the existing
facilities of the Oroszlany coal mining company (OCMC), a flotation equipment
for coking coal fines and equipment to improve the existing washing plant will
be provided for the Mecsek coal mining company (MCMC) at Pecs, and equipment
for replacement and expansion of its Nagymanyok briquetting plant.   Total
costs of this equipment are estimated at t66.4 million, of which $14.6
million, all in foreign exchange, would be made available from the proposed
loan. Erection of the equipment will be carried out by the mining companies.
They will receive assistance in both engineering and implementation from the
Central Institute for Mining Development (KBFI) which has adequate experienced
staffed for the purpose. The program overall will replace low sulphur
petroleum products with a higher sulphur fuel so that on a national basis
there will be some increase in sulphur oxides released in the air, but will
still be within acceptable limits. For future extensions of this program,
targetted for heavily populated areas, sulphur dioxide abatement systems will
be required. This need is being addressed under the Technology Development
component of the project (paragraph 57). Waste fines will be disposed off in
existing facilities which are satisfactory.



- 18 -
51.      Program for Substitution of Coal for Oil in the Alumina Industry.
Hungary is a major world producer of alumina, with production based on
domestic bauxite, one of the few large mineral resources of the country.
Considerable quantities of steam are required in the production of alumina
from bauxite, and in order to improve the competitiveness of this major
industry, unit energy costs mnust be reduced. This will be accomplished under
the project by the substitution of coal for oil as the major energy source in
alumina processing at the Almasfuzito plant of the Hungarian Aluminum
Corporation (MAT). All the process steam and about 45 percent of the
electricity consumed at the plant are generated currently by a heavy fuel
oil-fired boiler and generator set.  This boiler will be replaced by a
coal-fired unit using low grade brown coal mined nearby. In addition, a new
17 MW turbogenerator will be installed to improve overall efficiency through
co-generation and increase on-site power generation to about 80 percent of
consumption. The project will replace about 72,000 tpy of heavy fuel oil by
240,000 tpy of low grade coal and reduce the plant's demand of electricity
from the national grid. With respect to the boiler, two alternative
technologies are being considered. One is a conventional boiler using
pulverized coal; the other is a variant of fluidized bed boilers developed
only recently in the USA and Western Europe. The fluidized bed boiler while
more expensive reportedly has the advantage of being less polluting, burning
low grade coal more efficiently, easily adapting to varying coal grades, and
having longer on-stream time. In view of these advantages, suppliers of
fluidized bed boilers will also be invited to submit bids together with those
of conventional boilers. Evaluation of technically acceptable bids will be on
economic grounds only. If either a fluidized bed boiler or a conventional
boiler of a design which has not been run using coal of the type to be
utilized at Almasfuzito is judged to be more economic, a satisfactory
large-scale combustion trial will be required to be carried out before bid
award. With the fluidized bed technology, the total cost of this
sub-component is estimated at $29.9 million of which the proposed loan would
finance $17.2 million. However, should the conventional technology be chosen
the estimated cost would be $22.3 million with a foreign exchange component of
$12.7 million. In the latter event the Bank loan would finance this lower
amount and the difference, $4.5 million, would be used to finance additional
sub-projects already identified under the NBH Energy Rationalization
Facility. In order for a timely decision to be made on the technology to be
employed, ICB procedures were initiated in February 1983 for the boiler.
Since the coal combustion trial will probably be necessary, the final award is
likely to take place only by September 1983. EGI, in addition to the
necessary design work, would also be responsible for construction and erection
supervision. EGI is experienced and well qualified in this type of work. The
boiler and turbogenerator are expected to be completed and in operation by
December 1986.
52.      Program for Substitution of Natural Gas for Oil.  Many public
institutions and households in Hungary use gas oil for heating purposes and a
high proportion of industrial enterprises and district heating units use light
and heavy fuel oils. A long-term program has been launched to substitute
indigenous natural gas for them by extending the supply system to nearby high
consuming areas of these fuels. This component is the 1983-87 time-slice of a
longer-term program and will include the connection of 152 small enterprises



- 19 -
in ten small towns and the town of Sopron to the main supply line for an
aggregate use of about 240 million m3; conversion of oil burning systems to
natural gas for all of the 152 consumers; and the connection to the main
supply line and the laying of distribution systems required to bring an
additional 72 million m3 to other major consumers who are currently being
identified.  It is also estimated that approximately 56,000 households will
eventually be connected to the new distribution systems installed in this
stage; these connections are not part of the project.  The National Oil and
Gas Trust (OKGT) will implement part of this component (laying of main pipes
and distribution system) through its pipeline engineering company and through
its regional gas supply companies.  These companies are well experienced and
have efficient implementation organizations. The State Development Bank (SDB)
which finances large industrial, infrastructure and social investments
initiated by the State will provide most of the domestic funds for this
component. For the equipment conversion part, SDB, which will onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to the various industrial consumers will require
firm implementation plans from them as part of its appraisal procedures. SDB
will subsequently monitor implementation performance through the Mining and
Energy Unit of its Industry Department and its Regional Directorates, which
have the necessary expertise. Implementation started in January 1983 with
detailed designing and route surveys and will be completed by December 1987.
The total cost of this component is estimated at $64.8 million, of which the
estimated direct foreign exchange component of $19.3 million will be financed
from the Bank loan.
53.      Program for Energy Diversification and Conservation in the Petroleum
Refining Industry. To upgrade low value refinery products (mainly burner
fuels) to higher value transportation fuels and to match the product mix of
the refineries to the national demand pattern, a fluid catalytic cracker (FCC)
is being installed at the Danube Refinery of OKGT. The FCC unit scheduled for
start-up in mid-1984, will process into lighter distillates up to I million
tpy of vacuum gas oil which is currently used as blending stock for the
production of fuel oil from high viscosity vacuum residue. After the start-up
of the FCC unit, the surplus vacuum residue would have been used in an
adjacent power plant. However, as the first unit of the nuclear power plant
reaches full operation around 1984, the capacity utilization of the more
expensive power plant will be considerably curtailed, virtually eliminating
its demand for vacuum residue. The surplus of vacuum residue will increase
considerably and a visbreaker will be needed to produce a useable fuel from
it. The proposed loan would finance the construction of a visbreaker to
convert 700,000 tpy of vacuum residue into usable heavy fuel oil. In order to
reduce costs many major items of an existing crude distillation unit which is
to be shut down will be modified for use in the visbreaker. Hydrogen sulphide
evolved during the process will be recovered as sulphur. The small quantities
of contaminated water formed will be treated in the existing waste treatment
system, which is adequate, before discharge into the Danube. A competent
foreign engineering firm will be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines,
to undertake design work, procurement of imports, and construction supervision
of the visbreaker unit. OLAJTERV, which is the refinery engineering company
in the OKGT Group, will be sub-contracted by the engineering company to do
some detailed design, local procurement and local erection contracting.
OLAJTERV has worked on all the refinery expansion projects in Hungary and is
capable of undertaking the work assigned for the visbreaker unit.



- 20 -
54.      The Danube refinery was constructed over the period 1965-1975 with
additional processing units added in the period 1973-1979. Since the designs
for most of the refinery were drawn up to stress simplicity rather than
efficiency in fuel consumption, it is a heavy fuel consumer. Although an
energy audit and conservation study and associated investment program will be
carried out under the institution-building component of the project as part of
the detailed formulation of the Government's energy conservation and
diversification program, the refinery engineering staff have already
identified a number of measures which can be undertaken now to yield
substantial savings. These would be financed under the project and include
modernization of tube furnaces, process modification, new heat exchangers and
insulation, improvements in steam heating systems, and a control system for
electric power consumption. Projected savings from the conservation measures
are estimated at 84,000 TOE per year. The OKGT refinery project team which is
well-experienced, is responsible for refinery modifications, including the FCC
unit under construction, and the visbreaker. The visbreaker is scheduled to
be completed in July 1986, 36 months from the date of effectiveness of the
engineering contract in July 1983. The energy conservation measures will be
undertaken during annual plant shutdowns and are planned to be completed by
December 1987. The total cost of the refinery sub-component is estimated at
$46.0 million, of which the Bank loan would finance $21.2 million, all in
foreign exchange.
Technology Development Component
55.      This component comprises three elements:  (a) a coal combustion trial
for the alumina plant steam raising facilities; (b) a fluidized bed boiler
pilot plant; and (c) development of a process for the production of brown coal
coke in rotary kilns. The total cost of this component is estimated at $9.2
million, of which the Bank loan would finance $6.0 million, all in foreign
exchange. These components are expected to be completed by December 1985.
56.      Coal Combustion Trial for Alumina Plant Steam Raising Facilities.
The Hungarian authorities have agreed, if necessary, to carry out a
large-scale combustion test in connection with the boiler to be procured for
the Almasfuzito plant (paragraph 51). Bank support would cover the foreign
exchange costs for shipping the coal and other agreed expenditures. EGI will
be responsible for the implementation of the tests.
57.      Fluidized Bed Boiler Pilot Plant. As part of the policy of switching
consumption from petroleum to cheaper, indigenous fuels, some 50 oil burning
units in urban areas, primarily for district heating, will be replaced by coal
burning boilers. The plan is to utilize the new fluidized bed technology,
developed abroad, as it considerably reduces air pollution, thereby enabling
indigenous high sulphur, low quality coal to be used in urban locations.
Since most of the boilers which are to be switched to coal burning are
considerably smaller than the plants operating abroad, new designs will have
to be made. To establish optimal design and operating conditions for
different locations and coals, a pilot fluidized bed boiler will be installed
in Gyor at an existing power plant operated by the Hungarian Electric Power
Trust (MVMT). The Energy Economy Authority would exercise overall supervision



- 21 -
and control, while MVMT would be responsible for procurement, installation and
operations. The proposed Bank loan would finance the imported equipment and
licensing fees.
58.      Production of Brown Coal Coke in Rotary Kilns. The present domestic
production of coke covers only 40 percent of demand. The potential for
increasing production of metallurgical coke from damestic bituminous coal is
limited, but technologies now are available to produce brown coal-based char
for selected industrial applications requiring coke and for the manufacture of
briquettes for use as non-polluting, low volatile fuels by households. For
the production of brown coal-based coke, the Hungarians have selected the
rotary kiln process because several kilns now utilized for cement production
at Tatabanya will be closed down in the near future, and become available for
brown coal coking. The proposed Bank loan would finance a processing test of
Hungarian coal in facilities abroad, the preparation of engineering and
techno-economic studies, foreign licenses and if justified from the results of
the test and the studies, the modification of one of the Tatabanya
semi-industrial scale rotary kilns. KBFI will be responsible for implementing
the tests, the techno-economic study and the kiln conversion.
Project Cost and Financing
59.      Total financing required for the project including duties and taxes,
incremental working capital, physical and price contingencies, interest during
construction and the front-end fee is estimated at $309.6 million. The
foreign exchange component amounts to $157.0 million. Physical contingencies
represent 10 percent of the total installed costs. Price escalation for
foreign costs has been estimated at 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984,
7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent for 1986. Price escalation for local costs
are based on forecasts of domestic inflation of 8.5 percent for 1983, 8.0
percent for 1984, 7.5 percent for 1985 and 7.0 percent for 1986. A total of
200 man-months of foreign consulting services would be required. The average
cost of these services has been estimated at $13,500 per man-month including
per diem, travel and other reimbursable costs which is considered reasonable.
60.      The proposed Bank loan of $109 million would cover about 35 per cent
of the total financing requirements and 69 percent of foreign exchange
requirements including the capitalized front-end fee. The balance would be
provided in the form of internally generated funds of enterprises and equity
contribution by the Government ($64.6 million), and loans from the National
Bank of Hungary ($73.4 million), and from the State Development Bank ($62.6
million). Although the financing plan is complete, the Government has
expressed interest in seeking cofinancing for the proposed project utilizing
the new "B" loan scheme. The amount and timing of cofinancing will depend on
market conditions and other funds being raised by Hungary in the capital
markets. It is likely that cofinancing of about $100 million equivalent would
be sought. Cofinancing so raised would substitute for domestic funds.



- 22 -
Onlending Arrangements
61.      The borrower of the proposed loan would be the Hungarian People's
Republic. Of the loan proceeds about $0.3 million would be for the front-end
fee, and $2.9 million would be expended directly by the Government for the
institution-building and technology development (apart from the pilot
fluidized bed boiler) components. The balance would be on-lent to NBH for the
Energy Rationalization Facility sub-projects, OKGT for the refinery and part
of the gas substitution component, MAT for the steam raising facilities at
Almasfuzito, four coal mining companies for the coal sub-projects, MVMT for
the pilot fluidized bed boiler, and to SDB for the balance of the gas
substitution component. The on-lending terms to OKGT, MAT, the coal companies
and MVMT would be for 15 years including three years of grace at a rate not
less than 14 percent, which includes the Bank's current lending rate, a
premium of 10 percent of that rate and a spread estimated to be sufficient to
cover the foreign exchange risk, which will be borne by the Borrower. While
the onlending interest rate charged to the NBH and SDB sub-borrowers would
also be 14 percent with the foreign exchange risk being borne by the Borrower,
the maturity and grace periods would be somewhat less to coincide with the
established guidelines of NBH for similar investments financed from its own
resources.
62.      The domestic funds required for the project and to be made available
as loans by NBH and SDB (paragraph 60) from their own resources would be on
standard local terms applicable to energy rationalization investments.
Interest rates of 14 percent and 13 percent are charged by NBH and SDB
respectively, with repayments to be completed in 12 years from the start of
operation (10 years for SDB). Since most of the projects will be implemented
over a two to three year period (except for the small projects financed
through the Energy Rationalization Facility), the maturity period of these
loans would be generally similar to those of the Bank loan and consistent with
the economic life of the assets to be financed.  Interest rates charged on
Energy Rationalization Facility loans for domestic funds made available by NBH
are also 14 percent per annum but sub-borrowers benefit from a 45 percent
ex-post interest rebate, if one year after the start of operations, they can
demonstrate that the originally set energy conservation targets have been
realized. For them, the effective interest rate is thus 7.7 per cent per
annum on domestic funds.  However, the overall effective average interest rate
paid by them on combined Bank and domestic funds would be between 10.0 and
10.5 percent, i.e. above the projected domestic inflation of 8.5 percent in
1983, 8.0 percent in 1984, 7.5 percent in 1985, and 7.0 percent in 1986.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Borrower would review
annually the adequacy of the domestic interest rates applicable to loans made
by NBH for energy conservation and diversification investments and on the
basis of such review adjust these rates for new loans to maintain a positive
spread over the rate of inflation (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). Agreement
was also reached that the proceeds of the Bank loan would be on-lent to
project beneficiaries on terms and conditions mentioned above (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(c)). An additional condition of loan effectiveness would be the
execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Hungarian People's
Republic and (i) NBH for the Energy Rationalization Facility; (ii) OKGT for
the refinery and interfuel substitution/gas component; (iii) SDB for gas



- 23 -
conversion; (iv) four coal mining companies for the coal sub-projects; and (v)
MVMT for the pilot fluidized bed boiler (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). The
execution of (a) a subsidiary loan agreement between the Hungarian People's
Republic and MAT for the Almasfuzito plant and (b) sub-loan agreements between
(i) NBH and the Energy Rationalization Facility sub-borrowers; and (ii) SDB
and gas consumers for equipment conversion and connections would be a
condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the Bank loan allocated for each
of these project components (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b),(c)
and (d)).
9          Procurement
63.      All equipment, materials and services financed from the proceeds of
the proposed loan will be procured in accordance with Bank procurement and
consultants guidelines. International competitive bidding will be used for
equipment and materials purchases, except for proprietary and critical
equipment and small items costing $100,000 or less which will be procured
under limited international tendering from qualified suppliers from at least
three eligible sources.  The aggregate of such contracts will not exceed $11.0
million equivalent. Equipment and services not financed by the Bank will be
procured under local procedures which are acceptable. With the possible
exception of the steam raising facilities for the Almasfuzito alumina plant
and for some equipment for the interfuel substitution/gas component, the
proceeds of the Bank loan will finance only imported equipment, goods and
services to be supplied from eligible countries. There are no qualified
Hungarian suppliers and hence there will be none bidding on these items. As
for the steam raising facilities, if the new fluidized bed technology is
selected, the loan proceeds would be used for the procurement of licenses and
know-how from foreign engineering companies, and specialized equipment which
cannot be manufactured in Hungary. However, should the conventional
pulverized coal technology be judged more suitable and adopted, then competent
Hungarian suppliers would be eligible to bid and would qualify for the
standard margin of preference of 15 percent or the amount of the customs duty
whichever is lower. Similar arrangements would apply for the procurement of
steel pipes, letdown stations, gas burners, instrumentation and valves for the
interfuel substitution/gas component.  Since this is the first Bank project in
Hungary and a large number of enterprises are involved in the Project, the
Government has agreed to designate, for each sub-project, a competent
engineering/consulting group to coordinate and assist in bid packaging and
evaluation and to ensure that Bank guidelines are adhered to.  These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06(b)). Overall coordination and supervision in the carrying out of the
project will be the responsibility of a project coordination office reporting
directly to the Secretary of State for Energy in the Ministry of Industry
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a)).
Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
64.      Disbursement of the Bank loan will be made against 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for engineering and licensing fees, for equipment,
materials and spare parts and consultant services and training, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for



- 24 -
the steam raising facilities, the steel pipes, letdown stations, gas burners,
valves and instrumentation. In order to facilitate early implementation,
retroactive financing of up to t3.1 million is recommended to cover the down
payment for imported linear polyethelene granules to enable gas pipeline
fabrication to begin as soon as possible and foreign exchange costs of the
coal combustion tests for the production of brown coal coke in rotary kilns.
Financial Covenants, Auditing and Reporting
65.      All beneficiary enterprises are state owned and although formally
independent in their investment decisions and financial management, their
internal cash generation is controlled substantially by central regulations
requiring; (i) a 15 percent municipal tax on gross profits and a 45 percent
general profit tax on the balance; (ii) a compulsory reserve fund for 20
percent of the profits after the above taxes which must be maintained in a
low-interest bearing account in NBH, but which, with NBE approval, can be used
for certain eligible expenditures; and (iii) 40 percent of depreciation
allowances to be returned to the national budget. Borrowers from the State
Development Bank receive more favorable treatment since they are allowed to
deduct principal payments from profits before taxes and, if necessary,
allocate all of their depreciation to debt repayment. In the circumstances,
local financial institutions consider that the most meaningful measure of an
enterprise's financial health is its capacity to repay debt.
66.      Financial rates of return for the project are expected to range from
18 to 48 percent, except for the sub-project of the Nograd coal mining company
(NCMC) (5 percent). Nevertheless, this sub-project will still generate
profits for the company based upon the financing plan that has been agreed.
While the financial health of most of the beneficiaries is expected to remain
at an acceptable level, two of the enterprises--the Hungarian Aluminum
Corporation (MAT) and the Tatabanya coal mining company (TCMC)--are likely to
face cash flow problems if no measures are taken to help them meet their debt
obligations either through rescheduling of their existing debt, or adjustment
of their future investment programs, equity injections, access to their
reserve funds and depreciation allowances, revised pricing policies or other
appropriate measures. Assurances were, therefore, obtained that by not later
than December 31, 1984, the Bank would be provided for its comments with a
plan of measures to be carried out by not later than December 31, 1985 to
enable TCMC to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 and
until this later date, the Bank would be informed by September 1 of each year
of the measures to be taken to enable TCMC to maintain in the following year a
debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.0 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(a);
Companies Project Agreement, Section 4.04(b)). Similar assurances were
obtained for MAT, except that the target dates for the submission of the plan
of measures and its implementation would be December 31, 1985 and December 31,
1986, respectively. This exception is considered to be appropriate given the
complex nature of MAT (a trust comprising 24 enterprises) and the time
required to prepare such a plan. MAT would also be required to maintain a
debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.0 prior to December 31, 1986 (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02(b); MAT Project Agreement, Section 4.04). Agreement
was also reached that the six major beneficiary enterprises would maintain a
long-term debt/equity ratio at or below 65/35, a current ratio at or above 1.3



- 25 -
gnd for OKGT and the three remaining coal mining companies, a debt service
coverage ratio at or above 1.5 (OKGT, MAT and Companies Project Agreements,
Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05).
67.      Each one of the six major beneficiary enterprises (OKGT, MAT and the
four coal mining companies) will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
and financial statements. For the sub-projects under the Energy
Rationalization Facility and the gas conversion customers, NBH and SDB will
submit quarterly progress reports. Financial statements of beneficiaries will
be retained by NBH and SDB and reviewed by the Bank during supervision. The
project completion report will be prepared by the project coordination office
to be submitted to the Bank within four months after the loan closing date.
OKGT, MAT and the four coal mining companies will submit within four months of
the end of the fiscal year, annual audited financial reports in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The Energy Economy Authority, AEEF, EGI, KBFI, MVMT,
NBH and SDB will also submit quarterly progress reports and annual audit
reports on project-related operations.
Benefits
68.      The project will yield substantial economic benefits and foreign
exchange savings by substituting about 1.8 million TOE per year of cheaper
fuels for more expensive petroleum products and by reducing energy consumption
by about 240,600 TOE per year. At project completion (1987), net convertible
foreign exchange savings (before repayment of foreign currency debt associated
with the project) would be about $271 million per year. Savings due to
reduction in imported power and natural gas from CMEA countries, would
increase the total to $299 million equivalent per year (at international
prices) compared with total foreign exchange cost of the project excluding
price escalation of $136 million. The economic rates of return (ERR) for the
individual components range from 23 percent for the coking coal component at
the Mecsek coal mining company to 100 percent for the visbreaker. The
composite economic rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated at
57 percent. These estimates were computed on the basis of replacing imported
petroleum products with domestic coal for the four coal sub-projects under the
substitution of indigenous coal for heating oil component (paragraph 50).
However, since imported petroleum could also be replaced with imported coal,
benefits could also be estimated only on the assumption that domestic coal
would substitute for imported coal. The ERRs so estimated for these four coal
sub-projects would be somewhat lower, ranging from 30 percent to 65 percent
compared to 68 percent to 97 percent under the first assumption.  Sensitivity
analyses show the project and each component to be economically viable under
reasonable changes in costs and benefits. For example, even if the price of
gas oil dropped 25 percent, of all the components that are affected by changes
in petroleum product prices, even the component with the lowest economic rate
(interfuel substitution/gas component) would still yield an ERR of 12
percent. The project is also expected to yield considerable non-quantifiable
benefits through the institution-building and technology development
components by strengthening local capabilities in identifying, implementing
and monitoring energy conservation investments at the plant level in the
industrial sector as well as providing an effective training vehicle in energy
audits and by supporting industry-wide studies which will identify energy



- 26 -
conservation potential in the major energy consuming subsectors. As a result
the energy conservation program would be more effectively formulated and
implemented. The National Planning Office and other agencies of the
government would also use it in determining investment priorities for the next
five-year plan and beyond. The technology development component would lead to
transfer of new technologies to assist Hungary in utilizing low quality
indigenous coals in existing operating units for the production of
metallurgical coke (which otherwise would have to be imported), and in the
development of a wide range of pollution minimizing boilers using indigenous
coal for district heating and other cominnal and industrial purposes.
Risks
69.      The technical risks associated with the project are considered
moderate since, with the possible exception of the steam raising facilities at
Almasfuzito, they utilize proven technologies. In the case of the steam
raising facilities there may be risks associated with the fluidized bed boiler
technology if it is selected. These risks would be of an operational nature
because of the newness of the technology and lack of performance experience in
burning Hungarian coal. These risks, however, will be minimized through full
scale combustion tests using Hungarian coal in existing facilities abroad
before the choice of the fluidized technology is confirmed. Virtually all
project components would lead to a reduction in energy costs in existing
installations and do not involve increases in production or sales and
therefore are not exposed to any additional market risks. Two sub-projects--
coal substitution (paragraph 50) and the refinery (paragraph 53)--could give
rise to environmental concerns. Measures, however, are in place to satisfac-
torily dispose of wastes and the national environmental regulations which are
strictly enforced will ensure that air pollution from the burning of coal will
be maintained within acceptable levels.
70.      Two main project risks have, however, been identified.  The first
relates to the cash flow problems of some of the beneficiary enterprises and
arises from the high level of taxation and other regulations requiring
transfer of enterprise funds to the government and low producer prices for
coal. However, the government has provided an undertaking to adopt
appropriate measures which would ensure the financial health of the project
enterprises. The second arises because the project is complex in design, has
a wide scope and involves a number of institutions. To minimize this risk,
special arrangements have been made by the government to oversee timely
implementation and substantial monitoring and supervision by the Bank is also
planned in this regard.
Part V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Hungarian People's
Republic, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the National Bank
of Hungary, OKGT, MAT, SDB and the coal companies, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 27 -
72.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Hungarian
People's Republic and (i) NBH; (ii) SDB; (iii) OKGT; and (iv) the coal mining
companies; and (v) MVMT will be an additional condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01). The execution of (a) subsidiary loan agreement
between the Hungarian People's Republic and MAT, and (b) sub-loan agreements
between (i) NBH and the Energy Rationalization Facility sub-borrowers; and
(ii) SDB and gas consumers would be a condition of disbursement of the loan
proceeds allocated to each of these project components (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b),(c) and (d)).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
Part VI. RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 18, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 28-                                                   Page I of 5 pages
HUNGAMY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HSNGARY                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. M.)                                                                             _   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/a
TOTAL            93.0/f                                                    MOST RECENT        MIDDLE INCOME         INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICWLTURAL    66.37T                         1960 /b      1970 lb        ESTIMATE /b           EUROPE          MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                                    *-       630.0           2100.OLI             2323.9                10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)                 1710.0       2799.0           4094.0/f            2107.4                  7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)               9984.0      10337.0          10711.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)              40.1         47.9             53.4                47.9                    78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                           11.3
STATIONARY POPULArION (MILLIONS)                                             11.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION REACHED                                         2030
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 9M.                                   107.3        111.2            115.2/f              83.3                   138.6
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND                 139.8        150.5            161.67T             155.4                   509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PES CENT)
0-14 YRS.                                      25.4         21.1             21.9                31.1                    22.7
15-64 YRS.                                     65.7         67.4             64.7                61.2                   65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                               8.9         11.5             13.4                 7.7                    11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                           0.7          0.3              0.4                 1.6                     0.8
URBAN                                           1.5          2.1              1.4                 3.5                     1.4
CRUrDE B1RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 14.7         14.7             13.9                23.6                    14.5
CRUDE DEATHi RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 10.2         11.6             13.6         *       9.2                     9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                           1.0          1.0              0.9                 1.6                     0.9
FASIILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)                    ..        149.0/c          686.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ..          6.0/i           28.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                       83.0         91.0            136.0               116.0                   111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF REQUIREMENTS)            122.3       127.6             134.4/f             125.1                   130.8
PROTEINS (CRAUS PER DAY)                       84.9         86.2             94.37T              92.7                    97.1
OP WlICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                    35.9        39.0              46.11g              35.9                   61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE                       1.6          1.1              0.6                 9.2                     0.5
HEkLTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)                 67.9         69.4             70.4                67.6                    73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)             47.6         35.9             23.2                65.1                    11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT
OF POPU1.ATION)
TOTAL                                          22.71d       36.1/d           65.0/d
URBAN                                            ..         64.9/d           83.8/d
RURAL                                            *-         10.6/d           43.1/d
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(PERCENT OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            ..         21.0/d           37.0/d
URBAN                                            ..         54.8/d           65.5/d
RURAL                                            ..          2.5/d            3.8/d
POPULATION PER PdYSICIAN                        720.0        507.0            400.0              1105.4                  620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                   326.0/h      235.0            145.0               634.4                   246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                         140.0/h      124.0            114.Oll             286.8                  122.0
URBAN                                          80.07i      134.0            129.0Zi             192.0                  140.6
RURAL                                            ..           ..
ADIIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                       ..         20.8             21.6                20.0                    17.7
StOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                           3.1          3.0              2.8
URBAN                                            ..          2.7              2.7
RURAL                                            ..          3.2              3.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCRI
TOTAL                                           2.4          2.0              1.5
URBAN                                            ..          1.9              1.5
RURAL                                            ..          2.0              1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                          74.6         91.7             98.0
URBAN                                            ..        96.6              99.0
RURAL                                            ..        87.4              96.7



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                                   Page 2 of 5 pages
IUNGARY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HUNGARY                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/a
MOST RECENT        MIDDLE INCOME        INDUSTRIALIZED
1960 /b     1970 /b        ESTIMATE /b            EUROPE          MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                             101.0         97.0             97.0               102.9                   101.7
MALE                             103.0         98.0             97.0               107.1                   103.9
FEMALE                           100.0         97.0             97.0                99.0                   103.6
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                              47.0/i       32.0             40.0                60.2                    88.4
MALE                              57.07?       26.0             33.0                66.4                    83.4
r                               FEMAL2                            35.07?       38.0             47.0                 54.!                   84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)               30.4         47.3             53.0                31.6                    18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                        24.3         17.7             15.4                25.8                   20.3
SECONDARY                                      11.4         10.4              8.2                22.2                   16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                    96.7         98.0             98.5                75.9                    98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSEN!GER CARS PER THOUSAND POPULATION           3.3         23.2             94.6                51.0                   338.4
RADIn RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND POPULATION         222.8        244.8            252.1               157.2                  1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND POPULATION             10.4        171.1            252.3               123.7                   403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THRUSAND POPULATION                           143.6        213.2            241.6               112.3                   331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA              14.0          7.7              6.7                 4.0                     3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)                  4681.0      4995.0            5044.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                               35.5         41.2             44.8                36.6                    36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                          37.0         24.8             20.5                38.7                     6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                             35.3        44.4              42.6                25.9                   37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                          46.9         48.3             47.1                44.5                    45.4
MALE                                           62.7         58.1             53.7                56.3                    58.9
FEMALE                                         32.1         38.6             40.9                32.8                    32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.7          0.7              0.7                 0.9                     0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP ROUSEPiOLDS               12.1/e      11.5/e            10.6/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS               34.8/l       33.7/e           32.3/s                ..                   43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                 9.4/e        9.9F            10.8/ei               ..                    5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHIOLDS               23.6/e      24.8/e            26.2/s                ..                   16.5
POVERtY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN
RURAL
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                            ..           ..
RURAL                                            ..          ..                ..               406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                            ..          ..
RURAL
Not available
Not applicable           %
NOTES
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmstic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969 and 1971; and for
Most Recent Estimate, between 978 a-nd 1980.
/c Women of reproductive age (17-49) using oral contraceptives. /d Percent of occupied dwellings. /e Percent of income
received by the respective percent of the population, and data refer to years 1962, 1972 and 1977. _/f 1980, /g 1977,
/h  1962,  /L  1960 data include part-time adult education, hence not comparable to later years,  Li  1981.
February, 1983



-30 -ANNEX I
Page 3 of S pages
DEflTflWS OPl SOCI IoICAToM
ones.:  Although rho dta ar  draen fro  souce  generaly judged the aon auhrra ead reliable.  It shuald aaa be notd that they may oat be i.eet-
eationaly comarablelee aae af d   lackof etao dardlnd defleitrfen     Io .one..    ese..d by difteenen  ceuetrle  Ia a-llectie   rho data.  The dte are, sour
tholos.o,. peful ta descrIbe erders af magnitude. indigae trends, eud chroti-aronnjrdifreo    eeecnota
The reeecegopsae(1) the nam  ouonry grou.p of the sub) eo                   .. cctry end (2) a canney grou.p wIth ana.cha  higher averge jocose then the conty group
orfb  eehjoet-utry (e..cepn for   "Hgbicc                     E.Oi  gpoter" grop obere "Middle  tote   Nutb Africa and Middle tEat" tchosen hecau    of anrenger
ecogluaafflotlen .I  the rf.eforen     group data the A"roe  are  opultiongweightded orthgic meen for echc fed-tca- aud shee  uty ehen
sajarity ofth n ...c.atie  in a greup hoc dana for than 1~ tod tae.    Ite  the.       Iorg  efc tIesaogro di-ator  dopnedu en ctheavilability of data
and Iu nen uniforo  _sunle  moat hr ...r ticed in relanog avergn- of one tediouter te aneth-r  Th... aveags  ar  only useful ito copring the  -aloe of
ue  iedleator at a rti- aeg the neuntry and ref-reete grp.
dISh (rhennand uq.k..)                                                                            Peuainpsr gp Raled - natal, urhn, and rural -Pplto    ttl
ea-Total surface Irta c-Priao   laud aroa and inland eaters; 199dnIubn   n   ua) divided hy their reap-etie uaehbr of hospia  body
daionrl- fEtisate of  arcltrlaea osed t-np-esily  -r peesanetly                            a-ilable to public and pniv-ne g-n-no  andi: sciaiend hospital sod  en-
foe cropa, pasnures  market ad kitohen gardens or te IIe felice; 1979 data.                     hbhilitati-eccnt.ter.  fHonpitalu are nItahbIu ntn p.nrma...tlp  traftd
by at leant..n. physiotan   rEtablituhntr  providing prinelpally ..cua
lNP PIP CAPITA (731$) - IMP pee caPita nutiatesant conten  monito  polc, cal-                       fiat tarn avo not tinloded.         lhonpitalIs  honeve. toninde hratib
colanod by o_em    . covrion mthed as Wtlrd lank At lea (1978-80 hacisi; 1960,                    and andice1  --oer  not pers_nnetly snffed by a phynician  (hut by a
1971 . aud 1990 den.                                                                              mdtnul ..nsiuren, turn,  tdcift, ntc.) dhLch uftu- in-putioot ar-
datien and prenido a limitod tang of codina1 fu-ilitec roe. enattie-
lfIlal' CtfONSUMPTION Pl  CAPITA - Aennuo  censuaptiun of teemrctal coegy(oa                        uta.  pu-poe  urban. heu 1pi-nuis luide WPis y~t1peIyageetothopros
and lignite,p ptroleu.   ean-al gas and hydo-, ounlar and ge-herea  clo-                          and rursi hospitals., lana  or rare  h.spita.  co d m.diea1 end mterity
ctrIiciy) le tegrant of . coa  equtiu-en  pne ..pl,.; 1960, 1970, and 1979                        ceters.  hynclaitood bespiah   urn included only uder  tatl.
data,                                                                                           Adulnuieno pee ffsapttaI Bed -  Ptona  numbe  p1 adnlicui..  t  oe dlaobares.
fro bopitaig divided by tbn.. nuber of beds.
POPULATION AND tITAL STATISTICS
Totalpplain  MdYa  (tosns                    A. of Jsly 1; 1960, 1970. and 1980              liRhOUSN
dons,                                                                                        Aerage Siog If H.esuebld (p-ro... per h-shold) -tetu1, urban, er  rueai-
ieboo Pustiun (pereent of total) - ltie of urban so ftalpplai                                    A hoshold c-uiutsfagopo  idli d                        Iasb  uhanlig - quarters
dfoondtotiena of urban u-ea  mopaffect  -p-arbility uf dat                             an   hi   ansas   Ahadro   egrsy o  my utb                            lddi
acu   eern;1960. 1970, and 1980 data                                                  the.hushod fur sttistital purpos..es.
Peiatio  rrjuon                                                                              Aoaostrofpresprrom-rrl   rbn   s ua   - -aerge nun-
Poysluniun in ynue loll- Crret pupulanion pejetle  are bauod en 19Mg                    hoe of Peenon  Per room in all urhan,and  uralIccupidtnnina
.totl populaion by age and s    aId thIr  att         yanfetility rue.doelna   epciey                                      eltp   uldnon-ernensrttrn
Pro)ecttan peramnroru ion  mt,L,iItyy taLu, ...myrta  of three Iuvali aIs--           uctpod   ats
lugIlife enpect saucy an birth  Increaing with eetey'u Pee rapita isnes                    Acteu. no Electini   y  yprc-t of dellingm) -total, -rba..  and rura  -
LeII  an  inma_te  L n" Tenyocac   tebtiti"ig en 71.1 y-es   The pur-                        Cunvotiunl d"ellingr cribh nlctrictry It living q-at-erpn                .ot%
enters I en fertli~ty rare clue have theoe lentl  asaumlg daclie It                          ofrena, arbor, cud r-r1 deIlitgo  rep-tie-ly.
frility ucoudini to t ureen l_oond   md  :Isun is iy piu-nin  p _oniurmoUAnno.
and f-etiltry toudu I or pne)e-tnienpepn                                                   Adlu-ted tnlmnCno
Itatricuay pepultonic   - to a stutuonary pupulatioc chore is yegrowth sicce                   Pn r  sho  -crl,ml and femle - irons otal, mole and femal
the birth ruce In nqusl in thn death rate, und ulno the ugo utrctuor toIneiet0   i   gsc   hopiaylvlu   ncnc PdvepeIlve
maltacu..urat.  Thi.Ia tachieve.d only after fetilItY  c.tes decline to                         pruanry sobeol-ogo y.epulti...c; n-v.lp            e   chlre   ged h-il
the -eylu..na.cl.. lerl of ptt net repraduttiue rote, eban each goeranion                     yuru but adjusted Icr diffe-ren  longrth  uf primary euato;for
of comet enyace  ItsefI u_ctly.The prtrleoy populantee sine wa                                  cuontriousIth  -ui-er-1 edoution enrel1-t say eocoed 111 peecent
estlsered on the basic of the projcted chra-eturWico of rho pupu1atot                           truce se-  pupils ar  blte or above rho oftfial school ago.
in rho yea  2001g. ad the rtot of delIsecfercilitry rat  tu rep.lc-                           ecuodart  cho   - tonal  male ad f-1cl  - C.ompted as above; ooodaey
sent level                                                                                     edcation requre  at leas  fourI yearn of aPPrecd primary Iuntruein;
Tou  utticrary pupulatiec Is reached - The yea  abet  rt.iunary population                        p-uidno geneal  c-a         Iunl  Pt teaICher trfing iurrct -n for  .puIls
uten oill be reched.                                                                           snaly uf 12 no 17 pacts of ago; curerp1ordru   coresae gescelY
Pmr 55. be. - Old-yea  pupulatiue per square kil-oec-  (111  heor--eu  of                    tcatienal e-rolma    (percnt of -e-odary  - locationa  tostitutiess
total area; 19~6,0. 1970 an  1979 data                                                       include trachica1,  rd rta,or -h-r progrses which uperare indepe..d-
Perap  k.arniral land - C.sP-vd em above for agricultural land                                 entcly oramdopartsnn  o   condryiottoio
only;  910. 171 and1979 date                                                         Pupil-reaher curi  -  riay. d tecudoep - Tut-I std nns noruled In
,Pppalaiuu ;Ago  srut0 e   (Percent) - Childreo  (0-14 y-su.)  wurking-uge (15-                 pyiryme  and secodary levels divided by ounher  ofu teachers In the
64 year) , aedr-nired (65 pear  ond ever) an per-trgeu uf nid-pe-  Ppc-                         c_etrepodieg lerl.
latiun; 196, 1970, aed lO1dI dta.                                                            Adult ituorur  rate  lo_tctt) - Literte adults (able t  road and write)
IooainCoc  lae. (percent) - ted     del       grou. c B h rates of tota   ld-             -u-eretage of rural adult pupolarlp ugod 15 poutsIad ove.
year pupulee  ftu  950-60, 1960-70, und 1970-8t.
Pupu1luta  Creed  ter  _(percent) - urban - docua  gutb races of ur.su Pupa--                CONIICSPTIiN
luniu.. for 1950460,t.1965-70, and 1970-00.                                                  Pasne as(per cbeosad pupalueI)I - P.....ngor cars  -tepie enter
Crd   it en(pot houn)- Anno.t Int bii-is per thrusu.rd of  tid-yru-                     curs neainglu   tlhur eI-h pron;et don pohulaucts, hearesne
population; 1960. 1970,..ad 19801 dora.                                                        nil itrypetIn
Crude luathteope r                -oad    A-lensu  deatho per  h....od  uf mid-yea             tedlo Ree.     rt(e   Icanr IlupotaIci-n   - Akll roper of raceinert for radio
population; 160, 1971. an   190 dt.radnn togualPu,blic per rheunu.odf Pt Iltiu;eclue   m
input tepoductier   e-n-iorgeru-h- of daughter  a somo  ci  huar in                         1 icnrsrd rccei-nr  in~ cuc_tin i   ad it ytuthergio tien or radi
her  -uc  reprud-iv- period it  h.c ooperi-nc   presen.t ag-syncifhu  for                        etsoa   in e.ffect; data fur rco...r yours nay -ta  beesgaroble   ic
rultty ya-es  unuIlyfieya  s--agesneding  in i9l0, i9P, un  i911.                              rest  _ostien abolished lict-ing.
Panily Plsosntgt- Acceprrs, d...eI (ihuos..ndo) A-        . deca  pmber uf occpt-r             TV Re-iver   (per tho.....d pap"tlaito   -1T=reeir-t. far hedeass tp
of  bthtori devten one opi-n  n  nto nal deiyplnigyu                                           groere1 public pro thouucd pol1.tiu;ocuecs cor   Ortivs
Pamile Plaselog-lt  (percen..t .f tatte'd mo)   Percetag  of maried                               Inunreod1   ousrc   elraic    fT    esett  efoe.
enen  of uhild-b-orig age (1h-44 pecrulh sIteu5  bir-h-ceutrl  de-ices.tu                    News.pape  Cirtalatci   fe  theudpolain                 S- Iatohoaeorageecie-
all maried tam   to sc   age gr-p.                                                              -ualnof"ol  geerlinere  nmpap`r, defloed asaperiediesi
publication  devu-d primarily to r             Scedin   geca   ss    r snsiee
FOMAlNDi  NUlTRITION                                                                                no be `duilyn  if it epprr- at least fou  tina a mek.
loden or reed Pr-d-tiun per Capito  (1969-71-1l00) - loear  uf per capita asual                Cln_a  Aepul Attendance yet Capita per Ter-ond us the Inhrof
productiun of all fund ctsaoditieu.  Production eu.cle  teed cod fend cud                      tickets told d-uR  tu Ohe pear  including ansls  no driv-in IIeemac
Ic vs  yaeea .pe  basic.  C-edinieu covet primary ponds (e.g. sagarcoec                        aud sehilecits.
inated of  agar) which cr  edible and u--tin eutn iotr  (e.g I. c            Ifn  u
rac are oc dlod).  Aggregate preducrioe of each Ic..nrey Ia basd or                        LAOR ORCPEt
naiaco  average producrpic i-s;16-1, 170  acdlogo data.                                    Tur1 Letr Porte (butan...do) - Et cu-i-aly acivepesos  inclodieg
mr-capi Is  spply of caIloies (perc-a  ef roseteeento) - C.apuned  true                          cree  f -rns od  -replyod.but.etcU~dinu heoswivon, staden,et-
qcrg   eqi-aen  uf no  food tupyl ica ovalble in coutry Po.t piCa                          c_neiet  IPupaltu  of c1Iige.   tlfiniti... II pari... cnrItnar
per day.  AvaIlable auppli_  _uprine d-muic pradoctiup, intttlont comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
-eperro, an   Ilno  iv stac.  Net supplies recldo animal feed, sees.Pemle (pe-ceot)  F-IPe                                   labor force as percn-ge ud sura  lbrr fete.
q_aanitie aced to facd pracessieg,..sd lu..arI  in distribution.  gequiro-                     Agriculture (perce-) - Lahur reru  ivrooc    fr...otry, bunting and
seers ver  entiatd by rur bused ephysiu1ugica1 ...ndu for  -urma  acti-                          fuehieg 00 percucage uf t-Ia labor force;16,1970 and l9d0 data.
viy hadhcr  coidering Ievr tueta  rser                    boe, dy seighto, age               Industr  (percent) - Labor farc  In mining, c...rt-urip,   ma..f.t......
cod son ditrrihriu- of pupuuIun  en-d o11witog 10 pnrceet for mott  atad electriciry, actor aud ga  as percentage uf total lohu  farce
household levol  196141., 1970 ad 1977 data.                             1.  6197  and 18 aa
Per nap itn supply uf protein (nones per doy) - irort  content c  Per capita      Participatieo teo- pecr    -           1rra, male, ad female - Participationo
on  spplyp of food per day.  Met snpplp of foud ic detined as abu.-  in-                       activity rateu ar  u.P.pted au rurl, male, and female labor force cc
qui_neur  fu.nt  tour nylon. ts-ulinhrd by lOlA yto-idn  u   sinn                               ctnoe   ulcoci   ot ud  mm    oputn  f  l  cgn  respectiey
a Puocspf6   rm    f rural prt.ein per day and 20 gras of anImal and                        190D90   o   91di.TeePebndo   L'   attpna    ae
poise pr-ein , of shict, in  -Le  should he. uni-I  Trt     hn ete utud-                       teflecting cit-ton utcrtof the  . ypluo t_  and tong rise treed.
urds are leor than thus  uP 75 grmof 0 renal  .ru..   an .d 23 freau                           fee oiatea ate freeB outipea  sources'
anima  protei  atIa  avruE othc  acri,  -p-oued by  A01i thegThird                           tonomric lepeudcc  ter   - trio  ipopuaton-d-r lb and 65 urdoe
Wortid Puod harvy; 1961465. 1970 and 1977 data.                                                to the tota  lohut f-rt.
Pe   nvt    tutin  uo     frmanml  o      I    Pe   Ptnic tplyl nof food Or-
tired free animals and Pf1es    grau  Per da;1961465,1970 oud 1977 data.                   INluMe DISTIBUlTION
Child (agna 1-b)~loah  tern(per thuanand) - PA-uaI deaths Per the.....d In                     Perconge ut PrIvate tIum  (both i. cash and ktiod) - Rloelvod by richemn
age greup I-  yer,top children  In Chic age group, for sort develo leg tun-                    5 Percent, rich-a  25 percent , puprest 210ecet  and  eus40 percen
trien data derired free life tablet; 19,60. 1970 and 19A0 data,                                of huo_eho1ds.
HEtALTHt                                                                                       POVETYtS  TARGET GROUPS
L"  iftlpeta-Y o Irth (year) -tAverge cober of ye-r  of life remaining                         Theelwignrmtee. ar  very approatmat  aar of poverty leIc.,
at birth; 1960,t1970 and 1980 data                                                             and  hboald be in.teprte~d 60th  -.niTrb.eouic...
Snea_t frNa_linv sane (Per thecocd) - Ausa1 dearho of IIfanra  udar one yea                     .iscieted Abtalute Pover.ty occzen Lerel Ills$ per caPita) -  eoed rurl 
of ago pZer heesa  l'irbirIths; p1990  1970 a-d logo data.                                    Ohuote poserty  etin leve  is ItItr ioce   level below whir a ellma
.ucestu  aeAto  (P_ee   e8pp loten    ttrl, uban, aed rural - ne-                                eucriti..uly adequate diet pl .se.ne.eslat oe-ftod rusainseot   isnt
her of people(tal  ora,an   ua).with rousmble maen  no cafe                                    af fordable.
eaerepply fioclodestetd   etan-aomorutetd.but aoaeaio-nd                                  Iniste4o Pelanuv- P-nrytua   ee   Olprt  ia  - arb- and renl 
ea      htecobashoe free protoutd bhorblea, n              Iig.ad saiar.-lsIs oa  relatle poverty toupe lve  In  t-thied  of aeaeprnp
peergoof their rapeetive populations. . In -mubueam   publicesnl t-igoom  of the neactry.  trbae level Js derived frco she rura
f tasab  or  tradp.st loCated net mar  shoe 200 entersft I          -rma  en  m   b          lepel wIth udJestannt fer higher cost of living IItoubanarc
aoncideend cc beleg within  macenable  cces  of that house.  Isears  cream                   tesia-d Pepelariss Below Absost. P.ert  Ine                    "ee   (ertot -'h"a
eeosoobla an-s  coud uiply ehor rho  aase   enf comber  or rho hb...mbhld                      antua       nee   rpplrc   uban end rura) who are "absolte
do oar hae- no apcd a disproportionte pert ci the day  Is fetehing the                           er
Number of poeple  e-tal, urban. ad rural  soerd by en-crt  disposa.a
pertentagee of theIr repective pepalatic.-  tFeeree  disposal ma-y  -Ielde
the ollsedo  a  dsosl   ith -r  iucet  retment. af IIsa  ser-.
and sense-eter by water-hos   ystem   or the nec If pit prlirs  and sii-
la   otlltos
Fesc -o   c  Physicies-  Pplt    divided by aunde-  et pranticing physi-                                                        rE.o... a.nd Seolal gate DffLngie
eBse  qcolifisd from a sedial stIel us cotonesty ieel,                                                                        tesenie Aetlysto asd Peejeutlums Dfpeetaat
Paainpar Nss-ioe P.ers-  P.ptsltiu  dlieded by s. bee of pretliog.                                                                           Kap 1982
maeadfemal  geedate  ess   sisetses  prannic1 sarsee cu
scaa mlleies-.



- 31                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Bil.       %                         1970-75               1975-80               1981
GDP at Market Prices              22.6       100.0                         6.3                   4.0                  2.5
Gross Domestic Investment          6.8        30.1                         6.2                   2.6                 -1.5
Gross Domestic Saving              6.5        28.8                        10.8                   5.7                  2.6
Resource Balance                  -0.3       -1.3
Exports of Goods, NFS              8.8       38.9                         10.4                   7.2                  4.7
Imports of Goods, NFS              9.1       40.3                          6.7                  4.7                   1.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added                          Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
US $ Bil.       %                        Mil.       %-                     us $        %
Agriculture                       3.9        17.1                      1.033      20.6                  3,775.4      93.3
Industry (Inc. Construction)    9.4          41.4                      2.123      42.3                  4,427.7    109.4
Services                          7.0        31.5                      1.860      37.1                  4,764.5      9310
Unallocated /1                    2.3         10.0                       *          *                      *         _ _
Total/Average              Z2.6        100.0                      5.015    100.0                   4,047.9/2  100.0 /2
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
State Budget
(Forints Bil.)         % of GDP
1981         1981    1978-81
Current Receipts                   472.6          45.7      60.3
Current Expenditure                422.4          40.9      50.8
Current Surplus                     50.2           4.9       9.5
Capital Expenditures                59.7           5.8      10.3
External Assistance (net)
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                         1976          1977         1978          1979          1980          1981
(Billion Forints outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      236.8         262.1         285.4         308.9         342.1        366.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector               410.8         477.9         568.9         614.3        665.5         715.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               64.8          74.5          86.0         100.5         113.1        127.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           49.7          45.1          45.4          45.4          47.6         47.3
General Price Index (1975 = 100)           105.0         109.1         114.1         124.3         135.6        141.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          5.0           3.9           4.6           8.9           9.1          4.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                27.1          16.3          19.0           8.0           8.3          7.5
Bank credit to Private Sector               16.8          15.0          15.4          16.9          12.5         12.7
/1 Customs duties and valuation differences which are not allocated by sector and show considerable fluctuation.
There is thus a distortion introduced into the interpretation of data on structural change in the economy.
/2 Excluding unallocated.
Not applicable                                                                           EPDES
March 31, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
32 -
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-81)
Trade in          Trade in
1978     1980      1981                                                              Rubles          Non-Rubles
(Millions US $)                                                             $ Mil.            $_ Ml.    %
Exports of Goods                       6,565.5  8,877.7  8,893.2                   Fuels, electric energy                    21      0.6       249      6.2
Imports of Goods                       7,751.2  9,019.6  8,854.3                   Raw materials, semi-finished
Nonfactor Services (net)                 -85.1    -93.7    136.8                     products, spare parts                  915    26.4    1,464    36,4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)            -1,270.8   -235.6    175.7                  Machinery, transport equipment,
other capital goods                  1,523    43.9        469    11.7
Interest Payments (net)                 -265.4   -389.2 -1,120.2                  Manufactured consumer goods               508    14.6       645    16.0
Workers' Remittances                        .                  ,                  Agricultural goods                        503    14.5    1,197    29.7
Other Factor Payments (net)                                                            Total                              3,470   100.0    4,024   100.0
Net Transfers                             98.9      48.2      47.2
Balance on Current Account            -1,437.3   -576.6   -897.3                EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Direct Foreign Investment                 -3.8       2.6       2.4
Net MLT Borrowing                      1,106.8    775.7    958.7                                                       US $ Nil.
Received                            1,219.5    947.5  1,117.8
Eatended                   ~~~~~~-112.7   -171.8   -159.2            Public Debt, imd. guaranteed            10.03
Extended                            -1,10.0    778.3         .                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Subtotal                            1,103.o    778.3    961*1Total outstanding & Disbursed                            10.03
Capital Grants
other Capital (net)                      679.8    449.1   -563.8
Other Items n.e.i.           ~~-1O5.2   -134.1   -122.6                                            /I
Increase in Reserves (- = increase)  -240.4   -16.7    622 .6                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981l
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           15.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed           15.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE
October 1981                                                                    IBRD/IDA LENDING, (December 1981) (Mil. US
US $ 1.00 = 35 Forints
1.00 = US $ 0.3                                                                                                IBRD    IDA
1981                                                                              Outstanding & Disbursed
US $ 1.00 = 34.314                                                                Undisbursed
1.00 = US $ 0.3                                                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
/1   Ratio of total debt service on medium- and long-term debt to total exports of goods and services.  The debt service ratio of
convertible currency debt to exports of goods and services in convertible currency (including short-term debt) was 33%.
Not available
Not applicable
EPDES
March 31, 1983



- 33 -
ANNEX II
c
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
None



- 34 -
ANNEX III
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by country to prepare         10 months (January 1982 to
the project                              October 1982)
(b)   Agency which has prepared the            Ministry of Industry
project
(c)   Date of first presentation to            July 1982
the Bank
(d)   Date of first mission to                 September/October 1982
consider the project
(e)   Date of departure of appraisal           October 25, 1982
mission
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations   April/May 1983
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness            September 30, 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank mission visited Hungary in early February 1983 to assist the
Borrower in completing formalities related to procurement documents for the
components required early in the implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
i.    Government to complete detailed formulation of the long-term program
for industrial energy diversification and conservation including
subsector studies by November 30, 1984 (para. 46);
ii.   Government to establish an energy conservation center by March 31,
1985 (para. 46);
iii.  Government to designate for each sub-project, a competent
engineering/consulting group to coordinate and assist with
procurement and ensure that Bank guidelines are adhered to
(para. 63);
iv.   A project coordination office to be responsible for the overall
coordination and supervision of the project (para. 63);
v.    Government to provide Bank with a plan of measures for TCMC by
December 31, 1984 and implement them by December 31, 1985 to enable
TCMC to maintain a 1.5 debt service coverage ratio after the later
date (para. 66); and
vi.   Government to provide Bank with a plan of measures for MAT by
December 31, 1985 and implement them by Deceqmber 31, 1986 to enable
MAT to maintain a 1.5 debt service coverage ratio after the later
date (para. 66).



________                _______                     _______                                 __________________________________________________________                           ________                  __ _____                    IBRD  16881
_______                                     ______- ~                   ______                               20~                                                                                 2Z0                           A,AR   9
H UN GARY
.   ..   Mote 'ay                       MGasp pelhnes                                                                        _d  .s                                      rO 6                       R
Mo a r. ads-                              E- g                                                                                                                                           u  S
-  lrlmoads           ~          ---       Pr aleced
<   -A- Cariuls              ;7      (;ns~Gfie ds                                                  J\Z                                               
150  IC=.r 20  4    a s                             C'as iDstribut- aCompanies --%s;                                       It
R.LOAMETERS 1] :2   2              30  40                                                                        C 50  7 8 e ro  aI so  +qjl  oph and Br qp uttnS    Plaists  -,      -, .0
Isr 0        1       20                                                    .p,;50o) eae   culss             lunu    -uryC l_                         r      )        ;~                                                         ,v'Ivd.                                  ,3
.--InlOrrteOatona                                  Fd Baea e or
AUSTRIA            K      CV-...  '                                                                                                                                                                                      o'           'yroyhoz                     'LCzs,
< t ,( zo os./et \~~~~~~~Q,b,-. 5, Egr                                                                                           _ha
'C,                                                                                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z ,  O A I
A                                            (             ;             A:>, ,                                           +       R       Cze0s       1>;  r  . ..00 ,'-C
. ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~       Kpoa _. _ _  _sk _e _..6h. | __.___   _  __.____                      _                   _   I         _                      /        __                                  L9_____
K- I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~                       f     u     l     A u          d050A 
'                                                                             B&k   soP
YUGOSLAVIA  rj-Ou N,                                p.  5   "'a  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M'                                                                                                           H'SLOUAE 5010
Kit4  >  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'""'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                KASR[~
~~~'                                         '4     -~~~~~~~OM N
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RUL___-_ __ _ ___________   _______ >~ 7>   .Ioo~'   ~s



