0    CUMENTSI OAN NUMBER 2317 HU
NBH Project Agreement
(Industrial Energy Diversification and
Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
Dated                        ,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2317 HU
NBH PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     'Tu_(y  6, 1983, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY (hereinafter called NBH).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Hungarian People's Republic (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred nine million dollars ($109,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that NBH agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NBH, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
NBH on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NBH, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
NBH to an Industrial Enterprise, for an Investment Project, out
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to NBH under the NBH Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement.
(b)  "Industrial Enterprise" means an industrial enterprise
to which NBH proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement; and


﻿-2-
(c)  "Investment Project" means an investment project to be
carried out by an Industrial Enterprise.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NBH shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic and investment practices, and shall provide
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) NBH shall relend the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan lent to it by the Borrower to Industrial Enterprises for the
purpose of financing Investment Projects in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
NBH shall make available for lending to Industrial Enterprises,
in addition to the proceeds of the NBH Subsidiary Loan, an amount
of not less than 1,528,000,000 Forints, or such other amount as
shall be agreed with the Bank.
Section 2.02. NBH undertakes to cause the Industrial Enter-
prises to take all measures necessary to ensure that the facili-
ties provided under the Investment Projects shall be designed,
installed and operated with due regard to appropriate safety,
ecological and environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NBH undertakes to insure, or make or cause
to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by NBH to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿- 3 -
(b) NBH shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NBH shall furnish, or cause to be fur-
nished, to the Bank, such information in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for each
Investment Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto.
(b) NBH: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part A of the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in Part A of the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by of any contract for goods or services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part
A of the Project, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was award-
ed and the contract price.
(d) NBH shall take all action required on its part, in con-
nection with Part A of the Project, to ensure the timely prepara-
tion of the project completion report required to be furnished by
the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.07 (d) of the Loan
Agreement. To that end, NBH shall, promptly after completion of
Part A of the Project, but in any event not later than two months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between NBH, the Borrower and the Bank, prepare and
furnish to the Borrower, for inclusion in the aforementioned
report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank, a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their cost and the benefits derived and to


﻿-4
be derived from them, the performance by NBH and the Bank of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. (a) NBH shall duly perform all its obligations
under the NBH Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NBH shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the NBH Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b) NBH shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the inter-
ests of the Bank and NBH; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the
Project.
(c)   NBH shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the supervision and monitoring of the carrying out of the
Investment Projects in accordance with procedures and standards
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.07. (a) NBH shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the NBH Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) NBH shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part A of the Project or of any Investment Project, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by NBH
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the NBH Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NBH shall establish and maintain separate
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b) NBH shall register in the separate accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section all its receipts and payments


﻿- 5 -
for, or in connection with, its lending operations under Part A
of the Project, including the following: (i) amounts received
from, or payments made to, the Borrower under the NBH Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; (ii) amounts disbursed to, and received from,
each Industrial Enterprise under a Sub-loan; and (iii) amounts
provided by the Borrower or by NBH out of their own resources to
finance Investment Projects.
(c) NBH shall: (i) have the separate accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) cer-
tified copies of the said accounts for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the said accounts, and records and expenditures, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Provision of Funds
Section 4.01. Without any limitation upon any of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, and except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, NBH shall make available out of its own resources for
lending: (i) to OCMC, for the purpose of carrying out Part B
(iii) of the Project, an amount of 212,000,000 Forints; (ii) to
MCMC, for the purpose of carrying out Part B (iv) of the Project,
an amount of 180,000,000 Forints; (iii) to OKGT, for the purpose
of carrying out Part E of the Project, an amount of 808,000,000
Forints; and (iv) to MAT, for the purpose of carrying out Part C
of the Project, an amount of 208,000,000 Forints.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NBH thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify NBH thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request rejuired or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogran to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NBH:
National Bank of Hungary
H-1850 Budapest
Szabadsag ter 8-9
Hungarian People's Republic


﻿-7-
Cable Address:                       Telex:
BANKO                               227267 SMAFU H
Budapest                            225755 BANKO H
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NBH may be taken or executed by the Presi-
dent of NBH or such other person or persons as the President of
NBH shall designate in writing, and NBH shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By               ocCu4~.L
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
By    //        bo-
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
(1) Eligible Industrial Enterprises and Investment Projects
(a) NBH shall relend the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan lent to it by the Borrower under the NBH Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to Industrial Enterprises, which are eligible pursuant
to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, for the purpose of assisting
said Industrial Enterprises in financing the foreign exchange
cost of Investment Projects in accordance with the provisions set
forth hereunder.
(b) The Industrial Enterprises and Investment Projects
listed under Part I of the Annex to this Schedule shall be eligi-
ble for Sub-loans under Part A of the Project.
(c) Each of the Industrial Enterprises and Investment Proj-
ects listed under Part II of the Annex to this Schedule shall be
eligible for Sub-loans under Part A of the Project only after
approval thereof by the Bank. For the purpose of obtaining the
Bank's approval, NBH shall furnish to the Bank not later than
December 31, 1983 adequate information, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, concerning the technical, economic
and financial feasibility of the Investment Project and the
existing and projected financial position of the Industrial
Enterprise concerned.
(2) Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
(a) A Sub-loan shall be made to an Industrial Enterprise
under an agreement to be entered into between NBH and the Indus-
trial Enterprise under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank including, inter alia, the following principal terms and
conditions:
(i) the principal amount of the Sub-loan repayable by the
Industrial Enterprise shall be the equivalent in terms
of Forints (determined as of the date or respective
dates of withdrawal) of the value of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account on account
of expenditures for the Investment Project;


﻿- 9 -
(ii) the amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
this Agreement; and
(iii) the Industrial Enterprise shall pay interest on the
amounts of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time at a rate of not less than 14% per annum.
(b) NBH shall obtain, by written agreement with the Indus-
trial Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Bank and NBH, including the
right of NBH to: (i) require the Industrial Enterprise to carry
out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) re-
quire that the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any rele-
vant records and documents; (iv) require that the Industrial
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; (v) obtain all such
information as the Bank or NBH shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of the Industrial Enterprise and to the benefits
to be derived from the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Industrial Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Industrial
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agreement with
NBH.


﻿- 10 -
AIRE
Industrial Enterprises and Investment Projects
The following sets forth: (i) under Part I, the list of
Industrial Enterprises and Investment Projects eligible for
Sub-loans under Part A of the Project; and (ii) under Part II,
the list of proposed Industrial Enterprises and Investment
Projects subject to the Bank's approval pursuant to paragraph (1)
(c) of the Schedule to this Agreement. The foregoing lists may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank, the
Borrower and NBH.
Part I:
Industrial Enterprise                 Investment Project
1.   Lenin Metallurgical Works       Waste heat recovery from
stack gas
2.   Ganz Mavag Iron Works -         Substitution of natural gas
Soroksar Foundry                for fuel oil in furnaces and
dryers
3.   Ganz-Mavag-Locomotive           Replacement of electric
Wagon and Machine               furnaces with automatic gas-
Factory - Central Plant         fired furnaces for heat
treatment of gears
4.   Ganz-Mavag-Locomotive           Replacement of gas-fired,
Wagon and Machine               box-type heat treatment
Factory - Central Plant         furnace with a modern
furnace with heat recu-
perator
5.   National Combed Spinery         Replacement of boilers
Company - Hazai Wool Mill
6.   Peremarton Chemical Works       Substitution of natural gas
for fuel and gas oil in
boilers and dryers
7.   Taurus Rubber Industrial        Replacement of air compres-
Company                         sor plant


﻿- 11 -
Industrial Enterprise              Investment Project
8.   Taurus Rubber Industrial        Automatic boiler purge
Company                         control
9.   Ercs Sugar Mill                 Replacement of beet pulp
press
10. Kaposvar Sugar Mill              Installation of beet pulp
press
11. Matra Sugar Mill                 Installation of beet pulp
press
12. Vegetable Oil and Detergent      Installation of a boiler to
Manufacturing Company -         burn oilseed hulls
Nyirbator Plant
13. Vegetable Oil and Detergent      Installation of a boiler to
Manufacturing Company -         burn oilseed hulls
Rakospalota Plant
14. Vegetable Oil and Detergent      Installation of a boiler to
Manufacturing Company -         burn oilseed hulls
Gyor Plant
15. Nyiregyhaza Canning Factory      Replacement of batch
sterilizer with continuous
sterilizer
16. Borsod Chemical Works           Waste heat recovery
17. Budapest Hosiery                 Modifications in stocking
dyeing process
18. Debrecen Poultry Processing      Processing of poultry wastes
Company
19. Salgotarjan Metallurgical       Rehabilitation of steam
Works                           raising system
20. Glass Works of                   Replacement of melting
Nagykanizsa                     furnace


﻿- 12 -
PART II:
Industrial Enterprise              Investment Project
21. HAGE Liquid Fertilizer           Replacement of granulated
fertilizer with liquid
fertilizer
22. Torokszentmiklos Poultry         Processing of slaughterhouse
Processing Company              wastes
23. Kiskunhalasi State Farm-         Substitution of grapes
Distillery and Tartaric         wastes for fuel oil
Acid Plant
24. Kisalfold State Farm             Conversion of fuel oil-fired
cereal dryer to combined
pulverized coal-fuel oil
firing
25. Debrecen Poultry Processing      Replacement of piston
Company                         compressor with a screw
compressor
26. Glass Works of Salgotartjan     Waste heat recovery
27. KIPSZER Mechanical Plant         Production of condensate
separating equipment
28. Ganz Instrument Works            Production of heat measuring
equipment and heat
regulators
29. Glass Works of Salgotartjan-    Manufacturing of thermal
Oroshaza                        insulating glass
30. FUTOBER                          Manufacturing of heat
recuperators and exchangers
31. FEG                              Manufacturing of energy-
saving gas equipment
32. ELZETT Mechanical Instrument     Manufacturing of energy-
Works                           efficient window fittings


﻿- 13 -
Industrial Enterprise               Investment Project
33. Hungarian Silk Industry-         Waste heat recovery and
Finishing Factory               automatic control of dyeing
processes
34. Biogal Pharmaceutical Factory    Utilization of waste heat
35. Hungarian Viscose Plant          Rationalization of steam use
36. Hungarian Viscose Plant          Heat pump installation
37. Tisza Refinery Company           Sludge incinerator
38. Tiszamenti Chemical Works        Waste heat recovery
39. Ozd Steelworks                   Korff technology
40. Oroshazi Poultry Processing      Utilization of slaughter-
Company                         house waste
41. Kecskemet Poultry Processing     Utilization of slaughter-
Company                         house waste
42. Budapest Poultry Processing      Utilization of waste heat
Company
43. Pet Nitrogen Works               Improvement of heat utiliza-
tion
44. Danube Refinery Company          Utilization of stuck gas
45. Szamosmenti State Farm           Modernization of technology
Fruit Processing Plant
46. HAGE                             Production of briquettes
from agricultural wastes
47. North Hungarian Chemical         Use of solid waste as fuel
Works
48. North Hungarian Chemical         Burning of waste gas as fuel
Works


﻿- 14 -
Industrial Enterprise              Investment Project
49. North Hungarian Chemical         Alternative heating of
Works                           boilers
50. Nitrochemical Works - FUrfb      Heat utilization of process
steam
51. Arpad Agricultural               Utilization of geothermal
Cooperative                     energy
52. Chinoin Pharmaceutical Works     Waste heat recovery
53. Ganz Meter Factory               Production of quartz-
controlled meters
54. Construction Company of          Manufacturing of energy-
Komarom                         efficient boilers
55. Agro-industrial Combinat         Liquid fertilizer plant
Szigetkoz
56. Szolnok Sugar Factory            New beet press
57. Borsod Power Plant               Preheater turbine
58. Asphalt Road Manufacturing       Modernization of asphalt
Company                         mixers
59. Dunaujvaros Paper Mill           Burning of wastes
60. Nitrogen Works of Pet            Heat recovery from furfural
plant
61. Ozd Metallurgical Works          Utilization of blast furnace
gas
62. Mosonmagyarovar Alumina          Substitution of coal for oil
Plant


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  Ot      day of        1983.
FOR SECRETARY


