CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 492 PAK
Project Agreement
(Fourth Karachi Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI
DATED JULY 8, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 492 PAK
Project Agreement
(Fourth Karachi Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI
DATED JULY 8, 1974
0


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI (hereinafter called the Board).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Board agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement are to be relent by the Borrower to the Board on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
*       the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Board shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with proper administrative, financial, port and engineering practices,


﻿4
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation to sub-section (a) hereof, the Board shall carry out:
(i)         Part B(iii) of the Project by operating, as from the completion
of Part B(ii) of the Project, the dredger provided under Part
C of the Project at maximum output and to such extent and
for such periods (allowing for major maintenance) as shall be
Pcessary to complete such Part B(iii) by not later than June 30,
1979; and
(ii)         Part B(iv) of the Project by operating its existing dredging fleet
to such extent and for such periods as shall be necessary to
complete such Part B(iv) by not later than September 30, 1976.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association in order to assist it
(a)   in the procurement of equipment and of dredging services included
in Part A of the Project and in the supervision of the carrying out of such Part
A;
(b)   in the carrying out of surveys for and in the procurement (and, in
the case of Part B(i) only, the evaluation of the results) of the dredging services
included in Part B(i) and (ii) of the Project; and
(c)   in the preparation of specifications for, and in the procurement and
inspection during construction of, the dredger included in Part C of the Project.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part A, Part B(i) and (ii) and Part C of the
Project, the Board shall employ suitably qualified and experienced contractors.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Board undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,


﻿5
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Board to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Board shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project at all times or, in the case
of the dredger provided under Part C of the Project, until completion of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Board shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Board: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
*        representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
the Board
Section 3.0 1. (a) The Board shall at all times take all steps necessary on
its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   The Board shall at all times maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and conduct its operations under competent and experienced
management, in accordance with proper administrative, financial, port and
engineering practices.
(c)   The Board, in accordance with proper port and engineering practices,
shall at all times renew, repair and maintain in good and substantial condition,
its buildings, facilities, plant, equipment and machinery.


﻿6
(d)   The Board shall take appropriate measures to contain oil spillage, in
particular by use of the floating collars provided under Part A of the Project,
on each occasion of the loading or discharge of oil at the Board's oil piers, to
dispose of such spillage as may occur and to prevent ballast discharge in the Port
area other than into ballast discharge tanks designed for the purpose.
(e)   Except in the normal course of business, the Board shall not, without
the prior approval of the Association, sell, transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for its efficient operation
and the sale, transfer, distribution or disposal of which would adversely affect the
Board's ability to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.
(f)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall not
create or permit to be created any mortgage, pledge, charge or other lien on any
of its property or assets; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
Section shall not apply to (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing
a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
Section 3.02. The Board shall make provision satisfactory to the Association
for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate port authority practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Provisions
Section 4.01. The Board shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Board shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, revenue and expenditure accounts and related statements) for each
fiscal yeai audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Accountant General, Pakistan Revenues or by other independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its accounts and financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the audit report by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish


﻿7
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Board and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Save as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall
not, prior to the Closing Date, make any investment or undertake any development
relating to cargo handling or port facilities or otherwise to the business of the
Board (other than the carrying out of the investment program of the Board as
from time to time agreed between the Board and the Association) which would
result in estimated capital expenditures by the Board exceeding in any fiscal year
the equivalent of $2,000,000.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board
shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue for the Board's fiscal year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal
year on all the Board's debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business alnd maturing by its terms on demand or less
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan contract
or agreement, on the date and to the extent that it is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but shall be counted only to the extent that the underlying
debt is outstanding;
(iii)       the term   "net revenue" means the gross operating revenue
accruing from the Board's services, adjusted to take account of
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less all
operating and administrative expenses, taxes (if any) and
adequate maintenance, but before provision for depreciation and
debt service requirements;


﻿8
(iv)        the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate
of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the
Board, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) The Board shall, in consultation with the Association, take
from time to time all necessary steps within its power (including, but without
limitation, adjustments of its tariff structure and/or rates) as shall be required to
provide revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return on the value of
the Board's net fixed assets in operation of not less than 4% in respect of each
of the six fiscal years of the Board 1976 through 1981 and of not less than 7%
in respect of the fiscal year 1982 and each subsequent fiscal year of the Board.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the Board's net fixed assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of that year.
(ii)        The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" means the
gross book value of such assets (less the amount of accumulated
depreciation) as valued from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" means the gross operating revenue
accruing from the Board's services less all operating and
administrative expenses, taxes (if any), adequate maintenance
and depreciation but excluding interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall
set by July 1, 1975 and thereafter maintain its tariff structure so as to:


﻿9
(a)   promote the efficient utilization of its services and facilities, in
particular by encouraging port users, through means of incentives and rebates, to
accelerate ship turn-round times; and
(b)   ensure that the charges for its several services and facilities shall be
not less than the direct operating and maintenance costs of providing the same.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Board shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the Board shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Board and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. (a) The Board shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning its administration, operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Association and the Board shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them  of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Board shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Board and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.0 1. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Board hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dat-s:


﻿10
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Board of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Board:
The Trustees of the Port of Karachi
Karachi
Pakistan
Cable address:
PORTRUST
Karachi


﻿11
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Board may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board and two
other Trustees.
Section 7.03. The Board shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of the Board, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Board pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI
By /s/ S. Zahid Hasnain
Chairman
By /s / Rustom F. Cowasjee
Trustee
By /s/ S. M. Azizul Bari
Trustee


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Part A and Part B(i) and (ii) of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement, the Board may grant
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, as determined by the
Board, in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors, either individually or as joint ventures, shall be required
to prequalify as provided in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the
information for qualification, sucli information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classification established
by the Board and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and
comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Board, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.


﻿13
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Board shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part B.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Board to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Board shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts. With
respect to all contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for civil
works or dredging estimated to cost the equivalent of $225,000 or more or to
any contract for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $120,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Board shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Board shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for awa-d in respect of such bids by the said consultants and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or the Schedule, promptly inform the Board and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.


﻿14
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Board shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the firstptplication for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Board and state the reasons for such determination.


