Report No. 1466b-BO
Bolivia: Appraisal of a                                                                FILE COPY
Third Railway Project
April 29, 1977
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationr



Currency Equivalents
1 Bolivian Peso ($b)                     US$0.05
US$1.00                             =   $b 20.0
1 million $b                        =   US$50,000
Weights and Measures
Metric                              US Units
1 kilometer (km)                    =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet (ft)
1 liter (1)                         =   0.22 imp. gallon
=   0.26 US gallon
1 kilogram (kg)                     =   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                                    2,205 pounds
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ALALC        -   Latin America Free Trade Association
COMIBOL      -   Bolivian Mining Company
CONAVI       -   National Housing Council
DMJM         -   Daniel, Mann, Johnson and Mendenhall -
Consulting Firm, Los Angeles (USA)
ECLA         -   Economic Commission of Latin America
ENFE         -   The Bolivian National Railways
FOMO         -   National Manpower Development Service
IDB          -   Inter-American Development Bank
LAB          -   Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (Airline)
MTCCA        -   Ministry of Transport, Communication and Civil Aviation
SOFRERAIL    -   Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de Realizations Ferroviaires -
Consulting Firm, Paris (France)
SNC          -   The National Highway Service
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Program
USAID        -   United States Agency for International Development
YPFB         -   Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......... . . . . . . .  .................  ....... .   i-iii
1.  INTRODUCTION .......................................................  1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................       2
A.   General ....      .......................................  2
B.   Transport System ............      ....    .              2
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination                       4
D.   Development Plan ... . ........    .      .               6
3.   THE BOLIVIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS (ENFE)   .............          7
A*   General  .......t...o............                         7
B.   Organization and Management                               7
CG Staff. .                                                    8
D.   Railway Property ......... .        ...      ..    .      8
E.   New and Uneconomic Lines.                                 9
F.   Operations..                ........ ..... .. .           9
G.  Commercial Policy ....         ............10
4.   THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT       .    ........    11
AA.  The Plan ... ................................            11
B.   The Project and the Proposed Loan           ...          11
C.  The Action Program                  ...                   14
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement
and  Disbursement   .......... ............ .  .......  14
E.   Project Risks ....              .     .....15
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....... ..        ............ ......   15
A.   General  ...................0...                         15
B. Traffic .16
C.   Economic Benefits of the Plan..                          16
D.   Economic Returns for Freight and Passenger Traffic.    17
E.   Individual Track Rehabilitation Works  . .17
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Buratti (Engineer), Mumme
(Economist), Rasheed (Financial Analyst) and Dominguez (Consultant Engineer)
and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
r
6.  FINANCES ...............................................   18
A.   Financial Position ................................   18
B.   Tariff  and  Costs   ..................................  19
C.   Future  Prospects   ..................................  20
D.   Financing  Plan  ....................................  22
E.  Accounts, Budget and Audit ........................   23
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMbIENDATION ....    ..............   24
TABLES
1.  Total Freight Movement in Bolivia
2.  Selected Operating Statistics 1973-1976
3.  1977-1981 Investment Plan
4.  Investments to be Committed in 1977-1978
5.  Freight Traffic 1971-1981, Actual and Forecast
6.  Passenger Traffic 1970-1981, Actual and Forecast
7.  Economic Evaluation
8.  Economic Evaluation of Track Rehabilitation Program
9.  Income Statement 1973-1981, Actual and Forecast
10.  Summary Balance Sheets 1973-1981, Actual and Forecast
11.  Cash Flow 1973-1981, Actual and Forecast
ANNEXES
1.  International Financing in the Transport Sector
2.  Summary and Conclusions of Bolivia Transport Sector Report
3.  Brief Description of Railway Property
4.  New and Uneconomic Lines
5.  Main Items of the 1977-1981 Investment Plan
6.  Scope of Technical Assistance Services to ENFE (July 1977-May 1979)
7.  Summarized Terms of Reference - National Transport Survey
8.  Summarized Terms of Reference - Advanced Technical Assistance for
Highway Maintenance
9.  Action Program of Second Railway Project (1975-1979) - Evaluation
of Progress Achieved as of December 1976
10.   Time-Phased Action Programs 1977-1981
11.   Tentative Disbursement Schedule
12.  Methodology Used in Traffic Forecast and Analysis of Future Traffic
by Major Commodities
13.   Estimate of Long-Run Marginal Rail Costs
14.  Estimate of Road Vehicle Operating Costs
15.  Estimate of Marginal Road Maintenance Costs
16.   Estimate of Trucks and Buses Needed to Carry Diverted Traffic
from the Railways
17.  Estimate of Average Rail Revenues
18.  Present and Future Role of the Railways
19.   Traffic Costing Study
20.   Forecast Income and Expense 1977-1981 - Assumptions and Explanatory
Notes



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
CHARTS
1.   Bolivian Railway Freight and Passenger Traffic Density
Passenger - IBRD 12707
Freight   - IBRD 12708R
2.   ENFE's Organization Chart - World Bank 16949
MAPS
1.   Bolivia Transportation System by Mode - IBRD 11455R1



I



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project consisting of the third stage of a
plan for the technical and financial rehabilitation of the Bolivian National
Railways (ENFE) and concludes that it warrants Bank support. Railways are
playing an important role in the economic development of Bolivia since they
constitute the economic means of transportation of minerals and other high
volume and low value commodities over long hauls. The Government has given
its full support to the continued rehabilitation of track, rolling stock and
workshops. The proposed loan of US$35.0 million equivalent would be the
fourth Bank Group lending operation to Bolivia for development of its trans-
port infrastructure and the third to ENFE.
ii.       The existing inadequate transport infrastructure has developed,
without coordination, in an irregular and unbalanced fashion. Several private
railways were built between 1870 and 1920 in the western region of Bolivia
where economic activity is concentrated with the main objective of mineral
exports through Pacific ports. In the eastern region, Santa Cruz was connected
with Argentine and Brazilian Railways in the 1950's. The only rail connection
between the Western and Eastern Systems is via a 600-km detour through
Argentina. The highway network connects major cities in the southwest and
provides the only land link between Bolivia's high and low lands; it provides
no adequate link to the ports. This inadequate infrastructure is still a
major obstacle to the development of Bolivia, impeding the economic integra-
tion of vast stretches of territory possessing great natural resource poten-
tial. Bolivia's foreign trade depends mainly on the railways. With the
exception of the low-level unpaved roads that link La Paz with Peru and Chile
in the west and Tarija with Argentina, and of pipelines for petroleum and
natural gas, all cross-border traffic is hauled by rail.
iii.      ENFE has been facing technical and financial difficulties since it
was created in 1964. In 1974/1975, the Government took major steps to save
ENFE from its increasing problems by providing badly needed funds; by appoint-
ing a new, well experienced and industrious General Manager; and by granting
substantial tariff increases effective January 1975. The main objective of
such steps was to make ENFE financially viable. The tariff structure is now
adequately based on the criteria that it should cover at least the long run
marginal cost plus a contribution toward the recovery-of fixed costs. Also,
tariffs are uniform across the country. As a result of this, ENFE's financial
condition started improving; the year 1975 was a turning point in its finan-
cial history when, for the first time, it generated net operating revenues.
Since then, ENFE's revenues have been meeting all operating expenses and debt
service charges. The arrival of materials, tools and equipment, purchased



- ii -
under IDA Credit 346-BO and Bank Loan 1121-BO, are improving railway opera-
tions. The availability of motive power and rolling stock has improved.
A new train scheduling program was introduced on April 1, 1976 on the Western
System, and, consequently, there has been a marked improvement in train
operations. A similar program has been introduced in 1977 on the Eastern
System with the arrival of new locomotives. The Commercial Section has been
given a department status in the organization, and its sales promotion activ-
ities have been successfully intensified. ENFE has made bilateral arrange-
ments to purchase 33 diesel locomotives, which will completely dieselize its
fleet by early 1979. The success of ENFE's rehabilitation and modernization
program will depend upon (a) the continued full support of the Government;
(b) the continued sound financial condition of ENFE; (c) the ability of ENFE's
management to carry out its various time-phased action programs successfully;
and (d) the fulfillment of ENFE's traffic forecast, which depends heavily on
exports and imports and on world trade conditions. The forecasts in this
report are the best estimated in the light of present conditions.
iv.       The proposed project covers the investments to be committed during
the first two years (1977-1978) of ENFE's Investment Plan (1977-1981); it
comprises the continuation of the rehabilitation programs of track, equip-
ment and workshops and a program of technical assistance. All goods financed
under the proposed loan would be acquired on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines on Procurement except for
critical spare parts (US$2.6 million), which would be purchased from manufac-
turers of existing equipment.
v.        ENFE's investments to be financed by the proposed Bank loan include
the purchase of equipment and tools for the various workshops; spare parts and
subassemblies for motive power and rolling stock; telecommunications equipment
to complete the installation of the multiplex system; 301 freight cars; yard
equipment to start the renewal of the Oruro and Santa Cruz marshalling yards;
track materials, quarry equipment, ballast cars for track rehabilitation;
rails, tools, equipment, and gang trolleys for track maintenance; a concrete
tie plant for the Western System; earth-moving equipment; and finally, the
continuation of the ongoing technical assistance program. This investment has
a total estimated cost of US$52.7 million equivalent, including a foreign
exchange component of US$32.9 million equivalent.
vi.       In addition to the above, the Bank loan includes the financing of
the foreign exchange component of two Government undertakings: the updating
of the 1969 National Transport Survey and a program of technical assistance
for road maintenance. These two items have an estimated cost of US$3.0
million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of US$2.1 million
equivalent. Therefore, the total project amounts to US$55.7 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$35.0 million equivalent.
vii.      ENFE's overall Investment Plan has an economic return of 18% and
is well justified. With the recent dramatic improvement in the financial
condition, ENFE's working and operating ratios were 79 and 96 for 1976 and are
expected to improve to 73 and 91 by 1981. ENFE would, through its revenues,



- iii -
cover all operating expenses, pay debt service charges and contribute part of
the local cost of investment. This would further reduce the Government's
contribution to ENFE. The financial targets are considered to be reasonable
and attainable.
viii.     The project would provide a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$35.0 million. The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of four-and-one-half years.






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Five-Year (1977-1981) Investment Plan of the Bolivian National
Railways (ENFE) amounts to a total of US$116.8 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$73.6 million. The investments contemplated for the
first two years (1977-1978) amount to US$52.7 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$32.9 million. The Government of Bolivia and ENFE
have asked the Bank for a loan of US$32.9 million equivalent to finance
the foreign exchange component.
1.02      This would be the third Bank Group operation with ENFE.  The first
was an IDA credit (346-BO for US$8.0 million) in 1972, and the second was an
IBRD loan (1121-BO for US$32.0 million 1/) in 1975. Details of these loans
and other foreign assistance in the transport sector are given in Annex 1.
The second five-year investment plan (1975-1979) has now been revised and
extended to include the period 1980-1981. The revision includes (a) the
continuation of the rehabilitation of ENFE's track, telecommunications,
rolling stock and workshops; and (b) a program of technical assistance for
specific tasks.
1.03      In addition to ENFE's Investment Plan, the project also includes
provisions for updating the National Transport Survey completed in 1969 and
technical assistance for road maintenance. The cost of these additions to the
project is estimated at US$3.0 million, including a US$2.1 million equivalent
foreign component. This US$2.1 million is included in the proposed loan,
which therefore adds to a total of US$35.0 million.
1.04      ENFE has made arrangements, on a bilateral basis, to purchase 33
diesel electric locomotives from General Electric of Brazil and Mitsubishi of
Japan. The delivery of these locomotives has started (eight were received
in January 1977) and is expected to be completed by early 1979, at which
time ENFE's locomotive fleet will be fully dieselized. The locomotives are
financed by suppliers' credits, and the payments will be made by ENFE from its
internal cash generation.
1.05      In the transport sector, apart from the railways, the Bank helped
to finance a gas pipeline (Loan 635-BO, US$23.25 million) in 1971. This
project has been completed successfully and the pipeline is now in service.
A loan of US$25.0 million for an aviation development project is at an advanced
stage of preparation, and a loan for a highway maintenance project is being
considered.
1/   The amount was later reduced to US$28.7 million when ENFE secured
bilateral financing for purchase of diesel locomotives.



- 2 -
1.06      This appraisal is based on (a) the five-year Investment Plan (1977-
1981) prepared by ENFE, with the assistance of SOFRERAIL (France); (b) infor-
mation supplied by the Government of Bolivia; and (c) findings of an appraisal
mission in October/November 1976 comprising Messrs. C. Buratti (Engineer),
C-H. Mumme (Economist), N. Rasheed (Financial Analyst) and F. Dominguez
(Engineer Consultant). The report has been prepared by them and has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2
2.01      Bolivia has an area of 1.1 million km , which can be roughly divided
into the barren highlands "Altiplano" in the western part of the country, where
most of the country's population lives, the central valleys in the midwest, and
the lowlands in the east and the north. The departments of Pando, Beni and Santa
Cruz are in the latter area and represent more than half the territory of the
country, but contain only a small part (19%) of the population. Because of
topographical barriers and long distances, transportation's normal role of
encouraging overall economic development through an interchange of production
among regions is unusually difficult. The provision of adequate transporta-
tion is further complicated by low traffic densities. The difficulties caused
by topography and population distribution are reflected in high transport
infrastructure costs, necessitating a careful analysis of the most appropriate
modes of transportation and projects for investment.
2.02. In 1974, total freight movements in Bolivia amounted to about 5.5
billion ton-km. Of this, 75% was carried by pipeline, 16.3% by road, 7.0%
by rail, 1.1% by waterways, and 0.6% by air (Table 1).
B.   Transport System
(i) Railways
2.03      Except for petroleum and natural gas, the Bolivian economy relies
primarily on the railway system to carry its external trade as well as a
significant part of its domestic freight and passenger traffic. The system
consists of about 3,400 km of meter gauge railway line (Map IBRD 11455R1).
The only line not operated by ENFE is that from Machacamarca to Uncia (105
km), which is operated by COMIBOL, a Government-owned mining enterprise. The
railways form two separate systems, the Western and the Eastern, the former
carrying 60%, and the latter 40% of the total traffic.
(a) The Western System was built between 1870 and 1920, largely
in response to the need of the mining industry to transport
its products to the Pacific ports. This system consists of
over 2,100 km of railway, linking the main towns in the



- 3 -
southwestern part of the country and providing access to the
port of Matarani in Peru, to the ports of Arica and Antofagasta
in Chile, and (via Villazon) to the Argentine ports. About 63%
of the freight traffic on the Western System consists of export/
import traffic.
(b) The Eastern System was built during the 1950's, consists
of two major lines and is presently operating about 1,300 km.
The Santa Cruz-Corumba line (643 km) connects with the
Brazilian system, and the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba line (539 km)
connects with the Argentine system. The railways are the
only significant mode of surface transport in Eastern Bolivia,
the region where most of the new exports (cotton, timber and
sugar) originate. About 85% of the traffic on the Eastern
System consists of export/import traffic.
2.04      The railway subsector is analyzed in detail in Chapter 3.
(ii)  Highways
2.05      The present road system consists of about 38,000 km, of which 3%
(1,200 km) are paved, 17% (6,600 km) are gravel surfaced and the remainder,
80% (29,800 km), are unimproved earth roads. The most important part of the
network is located in the highlands and valleys, where 84% of the population
is concentrated in 34% of the territory. In contrast, the lowlands of the
northern and eastern regions, which have twice the area of the other two
regions, are serviced by a few low standard roads. The road network generally
is laid out in the form of a "Y" with Oruro as center; the stem pointing to
the south via Sucre, Potosi, Tarija and through Villazon and Bermejo into
Argentina; the left arm stretching through La Paz into the Titicaca and Yungas
regions; and the right arm leading through Cochabamba into the lowlands of
Santa Cruz.
(iii) Waterways
2.06      The river transport system is made up of an extensive network of
inland waterways located in the eastern and northern parts of Bolivia,
measuring about 1,600 km. Channel depths vary from 1.0 to 3.5 m, with
seasonal variations of up to 9.0 m. The system consists of five main water-
ways, as shown on Map IBRD 11455R1. These rivers represent the only avail-
able surface transport mode in vast areas of the underpopulated northeastern
part of the country. As such, they perform a vital function even though the
quantities moved are relatively small.
2.07      Lake transport is limited to Lake Titicaca, the highest navigable
lake in the world. Its primary function is that of an alternate transport
corridor to the Pacific Ocean through the Peruvian lake port of Puno, and then
by rail and road to the seaports of Matarani and Mollendo. In terms of
ton-km of freight traffic, lake traffic is more important than river traffic
(Table 1).



-4-
(iv) Aviation
2.08      Air transport is a vital means of communication, despite its rela-
tively high cost, and is likely to remain so for a long time due to the
topography and low population density of the country. The areas in which the
greatest potential for development of Bolivia could be assisted by improved
air transport are northeast of the mountains and in the south. The Bank is
considering a loan for infrastructure to assist in expansion and improvement
of air service to these areas. About 30 airports are served by regular
flights, mostly by the Government-owned Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB), and some
irregular flights for meat haulage.
(v) Pipelines
2.09      The state oil company operates 2,462 km of oil pipelines and 754 km
of gas pipelines. The oil pipelines allow access from the major production
fields to the Pacific seaport of Arica and to the Argentine border. The Bank-
financed natural gas pipeline (Loan 635-BO) conveys gas to Argentina. Depend-
ing on the success of intensive exploration efforts now under way and the
confirmation of identified reserves, significant new pipeline construction may
be undertaken.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.10      Important issues related to transport planning and coordination in
Bolivia need attention. As an example, Bolivia is likely to have to construct
and improve a substantial number of roads. This program, which may well cost
several hundred million dollars, must be carefully defined and evaluated
against the alternatives offered by the other transport modes. The Government
of Bolivia is considering the eventual construction of a highway between Santa
Cruz and Corumba (Brazilian border), practically parallel to the existing rail-
way between those points. The high cost of constructing such a highway (about
US$125 million) and the possibility that this highway is unlikely to generate
substantial traffic, but, rather might divert it from the railway, requires a
careful economic study. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Government will refrain from making investments for the construction of this
highway before an adequate study demonstrating the economic justification has
been carried out and the Bank has been given an opportunity to comment on it.
2.11      A National Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by UNDP, was com-
pleted in 1969, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. It proposed a program
for integrated transport development over the following ten years, and those
projects which were justified in the Survey have mostly been started or are
included in the 1976-1980 Development Plan (paras. 2.16 and 2.17).  One of its
main recommendations was that a Directorate of Planning and Coordination should
be created. The Directorate was created and, for a time, was attached to the
Ministry of Coordination and Planning, but is now in the Ministry of Transpor-
tation, Communications and Civil Aviation (MTCCA).
2.12      For achieving better planning and coordination, the Bank, in 1972,
assisted in the preparation of terms of reference for a UNDP-financed tech-
nical assistance program to strengthen this Directorate. The main tasks
of the program were to:



(a) review and evaluate existing transport information; identify
areas where additional or more accurate information is required
and install a system that would collect the minimum of necessary
data;
(b) review existing policies and regulation for inter-city transport
of passengers and freight by all modes; determine the extent to
which these policies and regulations are actually carried out;
identify the economic and social objectives which these policies
and regulations were designed to support; evaluate how efficient
these policies and regulations have been in supporting these
objectives; and
(c) review the relation between charges in all transport modes and
the cost to the economy incurred by each mode (with special
emphasis on road users), and suggest all corrections necessary
to assure adequate user charges.
2.13      This UNDP-financed program of technical assistance to the Directorate
of Planning and Coordination, with ECLA acting as executing agency, was can-
celled in 1976 due to lack of funds after only partial implementation (a con-
sultant worked for a few weeks at MTCCA and assisted in the preparation of
projects to be included in the National Five-Year Investment Plan, 1976-1980).
2.14      The gap in knowledge regarding' transport facilities and equipment,
their condition, their age and their ability to meet expected demands is
serious, especially for highways and waterways. Although many individual
project studies have been undertaken, there has been no real coordination
among them. The Government has decided that the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination, with the help of the consultants, should update the National
Transport Survey. The main objectives of this National Transport Survey would
be to:
(a) analyze and project the transport demand in relation to planned
development of the economy;
(b) review existing capacity and operations;
(c) determine the role of each mode in relation to the demand;
(d) recommend policies and operational improvements designed
to make best use of existing and future capacities;
(e) prepare a program of investments necessary to improve and
expand capacities to meet projected demands;
(f) strengthen the Directorate of Planning and Coordination and
develop a new organization and staffing plan for it;
(g) conduct the work in such a manner as to ensure that a maximum
amount of working knowledge is imparted to the counterpart
personnel, and assure that the organization of traffic counts



- 6 -
and other data collection exercises will be undertaken in such
a way that they can most easily be incorporated in the future
routine work; and
(h) indicate the method of implementation in such a way that it
might serve as terms of reference for a subsequent two-year
technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination.
2.15      The Government has requested financing by the Bank.  The arrange-
ments proposed for preparing the National Transport Survey and the technical
assistance contract for its implementation are outlined in paragraph 4.03.
D.   Development Plan
2.16      The Government's major objectives (except for pipelines, planned by
the Ministries of Mines and Industry), for the next five years (1976-1980)
can be summarized as follows:
(a) continue the rehabilitation and modernization of the state
railway;
(b) extend and improve the road network to meet national and
regional development related to high priority sectors in the
economy;
(c) modernize air transport through improvement and re-equipment
of infrastructure, ensuring permanent availability of smaller
airports, particularly in the north and northeast;
(d) extend the river and lake fleet and improve port facilities
and river navigation; and
(e) achieve an efficient operation of each transport mode in such
a way that costs are low and services satisfy the demand.
2.17      The present MTCCA plan calls for investment in transport, during
1976-1980, in projects already under execution totalling US$475 million,
excluding pipelines; of this total, US$266 million is for highways, US$107
million is for railways, and US$102 million is for aviation. It does not,
however, include capital investments for waterways, which are relatively
minor.  This may be compared to total public sector investment of US$2,436
million, or almost 20%. In addition, projects of US$439 million are under
study, witlh an aviation share of US$111 million and the rest for highways.
Productive sectors (industry, mining, hydrocarbons and agriculture) will use
about 60% of the the public sector investment, and energy and public services
will use the rest. About 62% of the transport investment is in foreign
exchange and is likely to require external financing. Since the transporta-
tion investments are large, and may even be excessive, continued sector
planning and coordination are required to ensure that the projects under study
are justified in their overall context and are well-timed. The summary and
conclusions of the latest transport sector report for Bolivia are given in
Annex 2.



- 7 -
3. THE BOLIVIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS (ENFE)
A.   General
3.01      ENFE was founded in 1964 to take over the former British-owned
Bolivian Railway Company (BRC) main trunk lines of the Western System and the
Government-owned branch lines radiating from the BRC lines (about 2,100 km).
In 1967, the Eastern lines were also transferred to ENFE (about 1,200 km). In
1974, as part of an agreement with Peru, ENFE took over the Guaqui-La Paz line
(96 km).  In March 1976, the Santa Cruz-Santa Rosa line (104 km), built by a
Joint Commission of Argentina and Bolivia, was handed over to ENFE. The only
rail connection between the Eastern and the Western Systems is via a 600-km
detour through Argentina, over the Belgrano Railway (Map IBRD 11455R1).
ENFE's freight and passenger densities are shown in Chart 1.
B.   Organization and Management
3.02      ENFE is governed by a Board of Directors chaired by the Minister of
Transport, Communications and Civil Aviation. The other six members of the
Board are representatives of the Ministries of Transport (1), of Industry and
Commerce and of Mining and Metallurgy (1), of the National Planning Council
(1), of Labor (2), and the General Manager (non-voting). The General Manager
is appointed by the President of the Republic and acts as chief executive; he
refers most policy decisions to the Board. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations of the first IDA Credit (346-BO) that amendments to the Enterprise
Law governing ENFE would not be made without previous approval of the
Association, and a clause to that effect was introduced into the Guarantee
Agreement. The present organization of ENFE is given in Chart 2.
3.03      Until the end of 1974, ENFE went through a period of consolidation
of the various railways into a single enterprise, of basic reorganization of
management, of difficult financial problems resulting from low tariffs and inade-
quate financial support from the Government, and of excessive union interference
in the railways' personnel management. In January 1975, the Government decided
to start a phase of active rehabilitation of ENFE: it appointed an energetic
new General Manager and gave him unprecedented backing; reduced union partici-
pation in the management of ENFE; and authorized a series of cost reductions
such as the transfer of medical care to the Government and a program of staff
reduction through attrition.
3.04      At the same time, the effects of the IDA Credit of US$8.0 million
were beginning to be felt, and an investment program was prepared, which was
partly financed by Bank Loan 1121-BO (1975, US$32.0 million, later reduced to
US$28.7 million when ENFE bought 17 diesel locomotives from General Electric,
Brazil, on a bilateral basis). With IDA and Bank financial assistance, spare
parts, new rolling stock and track maintenance tools started to arrive, and
the Viacha workshop began to operate. Under the guidance of the consultants,
SOFRERAIL, railway operations began to improve. The availability of motive
power reached 80% in 1976, the number of foreign cars rented was reduced and
the utilization of passenger cars improved substantially.



- 8 -
3.05      While the Western System has achieved good progress in operations,
progress on the Eastern System has lagged, particularly in track rehabili-
tation, due to the lack of effectiveness of the Eastern Management. The
Minister of Transport has submitted to the Bank a satisfactory plan of action
for solving this management problem.
C.   Staff
3.06      Following Bank recommendations at the time of the Second Railway
Project, ENFE has embarked upon a staff reduction program. The number of
employees decreased from 6,401 in 1973 to 6,047 in 1976; ENFE has retired more
than half of its permanent employees eligible for retirement and has a program
for further reduction of over 300 employees between 1977 and 1981. By 1981,
its total manpower will be reduced to 5,740, or 1.8 man per km, which is
better than most railways in Latin America. Agreement was reached on these
figures, which are incorporated in the Action Program (para 4.09), with the
understanding that, as the staffs of the different departments are reallocated
to meet ENFE's needs, some adjustment may become necessary.
3.07      The main problem regarding ENFE staff is not one of quantity, but
of quality. The salary restrictions make it difficult for ENFE to retain its
engineers and technicians, let alone to attract new ones. This aspect of the
staff problem is further compounded by the acute shortage of skilled personnel
in Bolivia. The Government is aware of these problems, and, after discussions
with the Bank, it has authorized ENFE's General Manager to improve prevailing
engineer and technician wages and to attract additional young engineers by
offering them the possibility of a career in railways. Several plans are now
under study in Bolivia concerning the training of skilled personnel. The
Government is planning to collect a contribution of 1% of payroll from all
Bolivian employers to finance various training centers through FOMO (National
Manpower Development Service). Since ENFE will be contributing its part, it
will be able to utilize FOMO facilities. Also, ENFE will be able to request
specific training for its employees from FOMO.
D.   Railway Property
3.08      ENFE's present track and structures are in urgent need of repair.
Deferred maintenance, combined with age in the western region--where the
track is 60-70 years old--and tropical weather in the eastern region, call for
an energetic and systematic track rehabilitation program during the next five
years. ENFE's rehabilitation of part of its rolling stock, its purchase of
new passenger and freight cars, and its complete dieselization in 1978-1979
will produce limited benefits unless the track is brought to a standard which
will allow the new and rehabilitated equipment to operate safely at normal
speeds.
3.09      A good start in this direction has been made in the western region
where, in spite of the low capacity of the existing stone quarries, about 60
km of track have been completely rehabilitated and are now at the desired
standard. With the expected arrival of new and more powerful stone crushers,
ballast production should increase considerably to cope with all requirements



of track rehabilitation. In the eastern region, track rehabilitation is
expected to be carried out by contract, and the Santa Cruz-Corumba line should
be completely rehabilitated in about five years.
3.10      The supply of ties, which for several years was a bottleneck, has
been resolved satisfactorily. Track materials and tools are now available,
financed by IDA Credit 346-BO and by Bank Loan 1121-BO. Only 68 km of rails
in the east remain to be replaced. Except for some sections of the Uyuni-
Ollague line and of the Viacha-Charana line, where rails will have to be
changed, rail welding for the rest of the system will extend rail life and
reduce maintenance costs. A brief description of railway property is given
in Annex 3.
E.   New and Uneconomic Lines
3.11      In the fall of 1976, the Argentine and Bolivian Governments agreed
to discontinue the activities of the Argentine-Bolivian Joint Commission which
planned to extend the Santa Cruz-Santa Rosa line up to Puerto Mamore and
Trinidad in the north. The Joint Commission will be phased out in the next few
months, when the line reaches Yapacani. From then on, all further extensions
will be studied by consultants. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
four points: (a) the Bank will be given an opportunity to comment on the
selection of consultants and their terms of reference; (b) prior to any con-
struction of the line beyond Yapacani, the Bank will be afforded an opportunity
to review and comment on the economic justification; (c) a clause similar to
the one in Loan 1121-BO will stipulate that the accounts of the operations on
the line to Yapacani be kept separately and that ENFE be reimbursed by the
Government for any losses incurred until the line's revenues cover operating
costs and debt service charges; and (d) the incremental cost of upgrading the
Santa Cruz-Yapacani lines to ENFE's minimum operational standards will be
studied and, if justified, will be underwritten by the Government (Annex 4).
3.12      The ongoing feasibility study, by the Brazilian and Bolivian experts,
for the interconnection of the Eastern and Western Systems, is expected to be
ready by mid-1977. Agreement was reached with the Government during negotia-
tions that investments for the interconnection will be made only after an ade-
quate study demonstrating the economic justification has been done and the
Bank has been given the opportunity to comment on it. With regard to unecon-
omic lines, the Sucre-Tarabuco line has been closed and the Cochabamba-Aiquile
line is under study (Annex 4).
F.   Operations
3.13      Although the performance of the diesel locomotive fleet has improved
considerably, tractive power will remain a matter of concern until the proper
general overhauls can be made on locomotives with more than 24,000 hours of
service: this will be possible in 1977, when spare parts will start arriving.
ENFE has resorted to bilateral financing for the purchase of the diesel loco-
motives which it needs to eliminate steam power and to completely dieselize
its operations. To meet these needs, it has already bought 17 diesel loco-
motives from Brazil (para 3.04) for the Eastern System and has signed a



- 10 -
contract with Mitsubishi of Japan for another 16 diesel locomotives for the
Western System, to be delivered gradually from early 1977 to 1979. Eight
locomotives arrived from Brazil in January 1977.
3.14      Under the guidance of the consultants, SOFRERAIL, railway opera-
tions began to improve. The first train scheduling program, introduced on the
Western System in 1971 and the Eastern System in 1973, lost most of its
effectiveness with the motive power shortages which started in 1972, and with
the 15-month interruption of the main line northwest of Oruro going toward
La Paz due to heavy floods. A new updated program was inaugurated on April 1,
1976 on the Western System. The reopening to traffic of the line near Oruro,
and the marked improvement in the availability of diesel power and of rehabili-
tated and new rolling stock, have resulted in the better use of equipment (an
average of 511 km/day for diesel locomotives in October 1976, 10 days turn-
around time for freight cars), better regularity of services, and better obser-
vation of time schedules.  Selected operating statistics are given in Table 2.
3.15      With the arrival of 17 new diesel locomotives, two new ferrobuses
and 18 new passenger cars, a new train scheduling program proposed by SOFRERAIL
has been introduced on the Eastern System in 1977.  ENFE will manage its new fleet
of locomotives without the constraints involved in the use of foreign rented loco-
motives operating in Bolivia with foreign crews and will be increasingly able to
cope with the unsatisfied transport demand of the region. For this purpose, it
is essential that the technical assistance program be retained in order to conti-
nue the training of the Region's personnel and to give all possible support to
management in solving the complex problems resulting from the dieselization of
the traction and from the increasing demand for transportation. Continuation
of the program is included in the project (para. 4.03).
G.   Commercial Policy
3.16      In 1973, with the help of its consultants, ENFE created a Commercial
Division. This division has been upgraded to departmental level, and its
manager is directly responsible to the General Manager. The present commer-
cial policy is to relate the tariffs to the operating costs while attempting
to remain competitive with other modes. Whenever there is a need to increase
tariffs, ENFE submits the proposal to the Minister of Transport, who has the
final authority to grant tariff increases. SOFRERAIL completed a detailed
costing study in 1976, and the rates and fares are related to the costs:
freight rates cover full costs on both systems. The passenger fares cover
marginal costs fully on the Eastern System but only about 95% on the Western
System. ENFE has, accordingly, obtained the Government's approval and raised
the fares by 10% effective February 1977. On the other hand, the Commercial
Department has intensified its sales promotion activities to attract more
traffic: discounts for higher volume traffic were introduced as an incentive
in late 1976, and the results are proving fruitful. ENFE has also started
identifying new and potential customers, evaluating their needs and their
future growth, so that railway policies can be adapted in such a way that more
traffic is attracted to ENFE. ENFE considers that a well organized information
system covering the transportation markets is a prerequisite to an aggresive
policy of attracting an increasing share of the market demand. Technical
assistance is expected to perform a fundamental role in setting up an infor-
mation system which can cope with this target.



- LI -
4. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   The Plan
4.01      Between 1970 and 1975, a series of UNDP grants, totalling US$2.32
million, financed an extensive program of technical assistance by SOFRERAIL
to ENFE. This program was designed to prepare a plan for ENFE's technical and
financial rehabilitation; to help ENFE carry out a series of action programs;
and to train ENFE's staff in modern engineering, management and commercial
practices.
4.02      With the help of SOFRERAIL, ENFE has prepared a third Investment
Plan covering the years 1977-1981. This plan has been reviewed and modified
in agreement with the Bank. It is a compact and realistic package, wherein
expenses in all sectors are well balanced. In striving for this internal
balance, an effort was made to correct, as far as possible, the low priority
which had been given, in the two previous loans, to track rehabilitation.
Investments in each category have been reduced to a minimum level below which
further reduction may harm the rehabilitation program. It was agreed during
negotiations that the Government and ENFE will make no further major revision
of the Investment Plan without consultation with the Bank. For this purpose,
a major revision is considered to be a change of more than 20% in real terms
in the cost of any item in the Investment Plan, the inclusion of new civil
works costing more than US$1.0 million, or the procurement of equipment of a
single type costing more than US$0.5 million in any given year. Annex 5
describes the main items of the 1977-1981 Investment Plan. Table 3 gives the
details of the Plan; a summary is given on the next page.
B.   The Project and the Proposed Loan
4.03      The project consists of (a) investments included in ENFE's Five-Year
Investment Plan and which are to be committed in 1977 and 1978 (paras. 4.04 and
4.05); and (b) the continuation of the ongoing program of technical assistance,
mostly at the operational level (Annex 6). It includes the updating of the
National Transport Survey and a two-year subsequent technical assistance for the
implementation of the major policy recommendations to be made under the survey
(Annex 7). Also included is the technical assistance for the highway mainte-
nance (Annex 8). This latter technical assistance would be engaged to aid in
the pilot maintenance program planning (as distinct from preparation of a possi-
ble Bank-financed project), the development of equipment procurement action and
planning of the enlarged training center program. The amounts for the National
Transport Survey, subsequent technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning
and Coordination, and the technical assistance for highway maintenance will be
onlent by ENFE to MTCCA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
There is a possibility that UNDP may finance part of the updating of the survey.
This study would then be carried out as a Bank-executed UNDP project. During
negotiations, it was agreed that disbursement for the National Transport Survey
will be subject to the Government assigning counterparts on a full-time basis
for the duration of the survey. The Government also agreed to ensure that at



- 12 -
ENFE's Investment Plan Summary, 1977-1981
in $b million             in US$ million        % of Total
Local    Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Expenditure
1. Way and Works      662.2      741.0   1,403.2   33.1    37.1    70.2          60.1
2. Rolling stock:
freight cars         -      287.3      287.3       -    14.3    14.3        12.2
passenger cars       -       11.8       11.8       -     0.6      0.6        0.5
3. Spare parts             -      55.4       55.4       -      2.8     2.8        2.4
4. Workshop Equipment  3.9        49.5       53.4    0.2       2.5     2.7        2.3
5. Technical
Assistance          11.9       64.7       76.6    0.6       3.2     3.8        3.3
6. Contingencies
Physical          33.9       12.1       46.0    1.7      0.6      2.3        2.0
Price            151.8      249.5      401.3    7.6    12.5    20.1         17.2
7. Grand Total        863.7   1,471.3   2,335.0   43.2    73.6   116.8          100.0
ieast five of these counterparts will remain in the Directorate of Planning
and Coordination after the completion of the survey, during the implementa-
tion phase and for an adequate period of time thereafter. The policy recom-
mendations of the survey will be implemented by July 1, 1981. A detailed
description of the project and of the items to be financed by the proposed
loan is given in Table 4. The proposed Bank Loan (US$35.0 million) will
finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the equipment, materials, and
consulting services of the project. A summary of the project is given on the
next page.
4.04      Included in way and works are (a) equipments and tools needed to
accelerate the rehabilitation of the track; (b) some earth-moving equipment;
(c) telecommunications equipment to complete the multiplex network; (d) quarry
equipment to increase substantially the production of ballast and its distri-
bution; (e) ballast cars; (f) concrete tie manufacturing plant; (g) equipment
and materials for starting the modernization of marshalling yards and studies
by consultants to solve existing problems at Oruro and Santa Cruz stations and
yards; (h) labor content needed for rehabilitation of track; and (i) ties,
cement and other minor items.
4.05      Maintenance and rehabilitation of rolling stock and motive power
includes the provision of (a) labor, parts and repair units needed for locomo-
tives, ferrobuses, freight and passenger cars; and (b) equipment and machine
tools for the workshops.



- 13 -
Project Summary, 1977-1978
in $b million                in US$ million         % of Total
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Expenditure
1. Way and Works      307.1      295.8    602.9      15.4      14.8      30.2       56
2. Freight Cars           -      158.8    158.8         -       7.9       7.9       15
3. Spare Parts            -       52.8      52.8        -       2.6       2.6         5
4. Workshop Equipment  3.9        39.0      42.9      0.2       2.0       2.2         4
5. Technical
Assistance           5.3       28.4      33.7      0.3       1.4       1.7        3
6. Special Projects:
a. National Trans-
port Survey      11.7      30.0      41.7       0.5       1.5      2.0         3
b. Technical Assis-
tance for Highway
Maintenance
2.3      10.0      12.3       0.1      0.5       0.6         1
Sub-total    330.3      614.8    945.1       16.5     30.7      47.2
7. Contingencies
Physical          16.5        5.9     22.4       0.8       0.3       1.1        2
Price             66.8       83.4    150.2       3.4       4.0      7.4        11
Sub-total       83.3      89.3    172.6        4.2       4.3      8.5
8. Grand Total        413.6      704.1  1,117.7      20.7      35.0      55.7      100
4.06      Technical assistance includes the services of experts, mostly at
the operational level, to help implement the consultants' earlier recommenda-
tions and to train ENFE's personnel in modern operational and administrative
railway procedures. Through direct negotiations and in agreement with the
Bank, ENFE has extended SOFRERAIL'S technical assistance until June 1977, with
funds from Loan 1121-BO. Total man-months required for technical assistance
are about 200 at an estimated total cost of US$1.7 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$1.4 million. The technical assistance is expected to
continue through 1977 and in 1978. Draft terms of reference and a tentative
bar chart for the technical assistance are given in Annex 6.
4.07      Technical assistance for the National Transport Survey and its major
policy implementation require about 200 man-months at a total cost of US$2.0
million with a foreign exchange cost of US$1.5 million (Annex 7).



- 14 -
Technical assistance for highway maintenance would require about 72 man-months
at a total cost of US$0.6 million with a foreign exchange cost of US$0.5 million.
4.08      Cost estimates are based on March 1977 prices.  Details of physical
and price contingencies, which are consistent with Bank guidelines, are shown
in Table 3. No retroactive financing is included in the loan.
C.   The Action Program
4.09      The causes for ENFE's slow start in implementing the first Action
Program (e.g., the long lead time required for deliveries, the effects of the
January 1974 floods, and the scarcity of financial and material reserves) have
disappeared to a great extent, and positive results are appearing in several
sectors. A more detailed review of the progress achieved appears in Annex 9.
A revised Action Program (Annex 10), designed to continue, expand and improve
the previous one, was agreed during negotiations, and will be carried out by
ENFE with assistance of the consultants.
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      ENFE would execute the project with the specialized assistance of
the consultants, except for the updating of the National Transport Survey and
the Highway Maintenance, which would be executed by the Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Civil Aviation. ENFE will carry out track rehabilitation
on the Western System under force account while contractors under ENFE's
supervision will carry out track rehabilitation on the Eastern System. The
progress achieved by ENFE's staff and management in the execution of the first
(IDA Credit 346-BO) and second (Bank Loan 1121-BO) projects indicates that
ENFE is qualified to execute this project.
4.11      It was agreed during negotiations that contracts for goods estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 but more than US$5,000 could be
awarded after solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers in Bank
member countries and Switzerland. The aggregate value of purchases under this
provision would not exceed the equivalent of US$500,000. Goods estimated to
cost less than US$5,000 may be purchased under local procurement procedures.
Except for this and for the critical spare parts which, as agreed by the Bank,
would be procured on the basis of direct purchase from the original equipment
manufacturers, all goods financed under the proposed loan would be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on
Procurement. Bolivia is a member of the Latin American Free Trade Association
(ALALC), but preferential agreements are not applicable in the case of ENFE
because it is exempt from duties on imported equipment. Local bidders 1/
would be granted a margin of preference by adding 15% (or the applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower) to the CIF value of foreign bids.
4.12      As mentioned in paragraph 3.04, the diesel locomotives which have
already been ordered by ENFE are excluded from the project. However, the
related financing charges are included in the financial analysis.
1/   The likelihood of participation by local bidders is very small.



- 15 -
4.13      Disbursement of funds from the loan would be based on 100% of
foreign expenditures for imported goods and equipment and for techllical
assistance for the project. The loan would be disbursed over a period of
about three years; a schedule showing the estimated rate of disbursement is
given in Annex 11. Disbursement would be fully documented.
E.   Project Risks
4.14      The eminent success and sustained improvement of the railways in the
past two years have been considered in this report. Indications are that ENFE
and the Government are committed to the objectives of the project; however,
there is a risk that the anticipated progress may not be fully achieved. In
order to reduce the risk, several steps have been taken in the project, such
as the Action Program, frequent consultation with the Bank and the provision
of adequate technical assistance. Also in the economic evaluation (para. 5.11)
and in the section on future prospects in the Finance chapter (para. 6.12),
the impact of failure to meet the targets of the project is analyzed.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      This economic evaluation concentrates on ENFE's 1977-1981 Investment
Plan. Quantifiable benefits are discussed in detail, and an indication is
provided of non-quantified benefits which would result from the investments.
The economic evaluation of the Western System is based on the assumption that
there will be a continued flow of traffic on the Arica-Charana section (in
Chile) of the Arica-La Paz line. It was agreed during negotiations that
failure to keep the line in adequate operating condition will be an event of
suspension of loan funds related to the Western System. The Chilean Railways
has at times failed to maintain this section properly, but recently provided
sufficient locomotives and initiated measures toward proper maintenance of the
track. An official agreement is expected to be reached in May 1977 between
the concerned parties. During negotiations, ENFE agreed that, if a satisfac-
tory arrangement is not made by the time the loan is signed, it will provide
the Bank with a supplemental letter stating that it will use its best efforts
to reach such an agreement.
5.02      ENFE's Investment Plan is a coordinated program of rehabilitation
and modernization designed to enable the railways to perform efficiently and
to carry the traffic which has been forecast for the 1977-1981 period. If
the Investment Plan is not implemented, declining quality of service and
diminishing capability to move traffic will result partly in diversions to
more expensive road transport and partly in complete loss of traffic in areas
where roads do not exist.
5.03      Since the Investment Plan covers all major track rehabilitation
works to be carried out on the Western and Eastern Systems and the individual
subprograms of the integrated Investment Plan are closely interrelated, full
benefits can be realized only if the whole Investment Plan (1977-1981) is



- 16 -
carried out. For this reason, the economic evaluation considers the Plan as a
whole, separating the economic returns of freight and passenger investments on
the Eastern and Western Systems of the railroad. Two alternatives were taken
into account: (a) making no investment in the railway and (b) implementing
the Investment Plan. In addition, track rehabilitation works, the benefits of
which can be singled out, were analyzed separately for individual lines
(paras. 5.07 and 5.11). The timing of the individual subprograms takes
account of ENFE's capacity for executing them, as well as the future demand.
B.   Traffic
5.04      A traffic forecast up to 1981, assuming that the Investment Plan is
carried out, was prepared by ENFE and SOFRERAIL and revised by the Bank
(Tables 5 and 6). Freight traffic is expected to grow in ton-km at a rate
of 3.7% on the Western System and 9.0% on the Eastern System, resulting in
an overall growth of 6.0% per year. For passenger traffic, the projected
annual growth in pass-km is 3.6% for the West and 10.0% for the East, showing
an overall growth of 5.9% per year. The estimated growth rates seem reason-
able and are in line with the Bank's projection of GDP growth, which is ex-
pected to be in the 5-6% range during the remainder of the 1970's. Annex 12
explains the methodology and assumptions used in the traffic forecast and
contains a detailed analysis of future traffic by major commodities.
5.05      In the absence of the Plan, rail traffic is expected to decrease
steadily, reaching, in 1981, a level of 87% of projected freight traffic and
44% of projected passenger traffic on the Western System and a level of 84%
for freight and 74% for passengers on the Eastern System. It is assumed that,
if no investments were made, rail traffic will come to a stop on the Viacha-
Charana line of the Western System in 1982 and on the Santa Cruz-Corumba line
of the Eastern System in 1994 and that total rail traffic will come to a stop
on the Western System in 1988 and on the Eastern System in 1997.
C.   Economic Benefits of the Plan
5.06      The economic evaluation is based on measuring the costs to the econ-
omy in the event that the railroad Investment Plan is not implemented. The
main benefits related to the Investment Plan as a whole for freight and
passenger traffic are the avoidance of (a) higher railroad operating costs for
traffic that would remain on the railroad; (b) higher costs of transporting by
road the freight and passenger traffic diverted from railroads; and (c) lost
traffic, where no alternate roads exist. Savings in long-run marginal rail
costs arising from the Investment Plan are explained in Annex 13 and paragraph
6.10. Costs by road take into account vehicle operating costs without depre-
ciation and interest, marginal road maintenance costs and investment in
vehicles (Annexes 14, 15 and 16). No allowance is made for an increase in
highway construction cost if the Plan is not implemented since, in general, no
congestion exists on the routes competing with the rail. For traffic that is
lost to the economy, the loss was measured by the average revenue per unit-km;
this assumption is conservative since the value added to freight transported,
mainly imports and exports, is higher than the revenues accrued to the mode of
transport (Annex 17).



- 17 -
5.07      Track rehabilitation benefits consist of savings derived from
(a) a reduction in track maintenance costs; (b) an increase in the useful life
of sleepers and rail; (c) better equipment utilization by avoiding abnormally
low speeds; and (d) avoidance of traffic diversions and loss of traffic.
5.08      Benefits not quantified in the evaluation are reduced accident costs,
reduced inventory costs for goods in transit, reduced breakage and spoilage of
cargo, and savings from elimination of railway closures due to bad weather.
The evaluation performed is therefore conservative.
D.   Economic Returns for Freight and Passenger Traffic
5.09      The economic evaluation considers the economic costs of the Invest-
ment Plan, including physical contingencies and the replacement costs during
the period 1977 to 2001. An analysis of the Investment Plan, item by item,
was made to distribute the costs between the Western and Eastern Systems and
between freight and passenger traffic. Items for which direct allocations
were not possible were assigned on the basis of operational and traffic charac-
teristics. The evaluation assumes no further growth in rail traffic beyond
1981.
5.10      The economic returns were computed from the costs and quantified
benefits described above over the project period.  The economic returns for
freight investments on the Western System are 17%, whereas passenger invest-
ments could not be economically justified and have been eliminated from the
plan.  On the Eastern System, the economic returns are 19% for freight and 44%
for passenger investments.  The overall Investment Plan has an economic
return of 18%. The Investment Plan is thus clearly justified. Sensitivity
tests applied to the economic evaluation consider a 15% increase in costs and
25% decrease in benefits. The economic rate of return ranges between 15% and
28% for the cost increase hypothesis and between 12% and 14% for the benefit
decrease hypothesis, thus indicating that the feasibility of the total Invest-
ment Plan would remain within acceptable limits (Table 7).
E.   Individual Track Rehabilitation Works
5.11      The details of the evaluation of the proposed track rehabilitation
works are given in Table 8; rates of return range from over 100% to 19%.
Sensitivity tests applied to the economic evaluation consider a 15% increase
in costs, a 25% decrease in benefits, and a two-year delay in the completion
of the 1977-1978 project. The economic rate of return ranges between 63% and
17% for the cost increase hypothesis, between 44% and 14% for the benefit
decrease hypothesis, and between 23% and 13% for the delay hypothesis, thus
indicating that the feasibility of the total track rehabilitation program
would remain within acceptable limits.
5.12      The present and future role of the railways in Bolivia is discussed
in Annex 18. Particular attention is given to the probable effect of highway
truck competition. Road transport is not likely to be competitive in the
foreseeable future for moving bulky items in the east. In the west, the
railways will remain the basic mode for the transport of foreign trade pro-
vided that ENFE reaches satisfactory arrangements with the Chilean railways
for adequate maintenance of the Arica-Charana section.



- 18 -
6. FINANCES
A.   Financial Position
6.01      From the time of its creation in 1964 until 1973, ENFE's financial
position had been deteriorating continuously, with the exception of 1969; in
that year, traffic and revenues increased by 17% over the previous year while
expenses rose by only 5%, thus improving the working ratio from 109 in 1968 to
93. After 1969, however, the working ratio again started deteriorating and
reached 122 in 1973, mainly due to high increases in staff costs, failure to
raise tariffs, inadequate financial support from the Government, and the poor
state of ENFE's plant. In order to save ENFE from a financial crisis, the
Government increased its financial assistance considerably in 1973 and 1974
to enable ENFE to meet its operating deficits, outstanding debt service
charges and the local investment requirements. Then, in January 1975, the
Government granted ENFE substantial increases in freight rates with the
objective of making it financially self-sufficient. As a result, the year
1975 was a turning point in the financial history of ENFE; for the first time,
it generated net operating revenues of $b 67.0 million as against the net
operating loss of $b 93.1 million in 1974. The working and operating ratios
were 79 and 88, better than the appraisal targets of 85 and 96. However, in
1976, due to a traffic decline in the first six months caused by the miner
strike and the Government imposition of 25% deposits upon Bolivian importers
prior to imports, the financial results were not as good as in 1975, but were
still close to the appraisal targets (the preliminary working and operating
ratios are 79 and 96 against the targets of 85 and 95). Income and expense
figures for 1973 through 1976 are given in Table 9.
6.02      In accordance with Section 5.04 of Loan Agreement 1121-BO, ENFE
carried out a study of the revaluation of its fixed assets and incorporated
the results in the 1976 balance sheet. However, the prices used for this
revaluation were 1973 and early 1974 market prices, which are still quite low
when compared to current prices. Therefore, in order to reflect realistic
up-to-date values, a revision of revaluation is required, particularly for
motive power and rolling stock. Further, ENFE should continue to revalue
the fixed assets every two to three years depending on the magnitude of
inflation and furnish to the Bank a full report prepared by the auditors on
eachi such revaluation. ENFE agreed, during negotiations, to (a) revalue its
fixed assets in terms of 1977 prices and to incorporate the results in the
1977 balance sheets; (b) thereafter revalue such assets at least once every
three years; and (c) furnish to the Bank a full report on such revaluation
prepared by the auditors.
6.03      The balance sheets for 1973 to 1976 are shown in Table 10.  The
liquid cash position has improved since 1973, and outstanding current obliga-
tions have been considerably reduced. Most of the accounts receivable and
payable that were outstanding for a long period have been cleared. The
obsolete and slow-moving materials have now been segregated from regular stock
and are being disposed of. Although the diesel locomotives and rolling stock
have been increasing, the inventories are not expected to increase much
further because of improved productivity in the recently rehabilitated work-
shops and better warehousing procedures.



- 19 -
6.04      The cash flow statement, Table 11, indicates that the Government
contributions had increased gradually, up to 1974, to $b 127.0 million. This,
combined with the increased revenues, improved ENFE's working cash position
since 1975.  Consequently, the Government f nancial contributions to ENFE were
reduced considerably and were mostly limited to equity contributions for the
local component of the investment requirements.
B.   Tariff and Costs
6.05      ENFE increased freight rates, first by 68% on all commodities and
then by another 52% on food commodities, effective January 1975. The tariff
structure has been revised, and the rates are applied uniformly across the
system, based on various class categories. Shippers are encouraged to use the
maximum car load possible. The minimum limits of these rates are set to
recover long run marginal costs. In spite of freight rates being higher than
trucking rates on some routes, the high volume, low value, and long haul com-
modities are usually transported by trains. Low gasoline prices are helping
truckers to maintain low rates on some routes and to capture some of the rail-
ways' internal traffic. However, shippers are willing to pay higher prices
for reasons of security, reliability of service and safeguards against pilfer-
age. With the present freight rates, ENFE is covering not only the long run
marginal cost but also all of the fixed costs and the internal and external
debt service charges. The average freight revenue per ton-km was $b 1.035 in
1975, while the average marginal cost was $b 0.411. A detailed discussion on
freight costing is given in Annex 19.
6.06      The Commercial Department of ENFE has currently introduced an
incentive program for all shippers, offering a tariff discount of 14% on car-
load traffic of any commodity hauled up to 50,000 tons and 30% over 50,000
tons annually. There are many medium size shippers in the export and import
business in Bolivia, and it is necessary to attract them also by giving higher
discounts. At the Bank's recommendation, ENFE will, in 1977, intensify its
sales promotion activities and contact the medium size shippers to determine
if more traffic can be attracted to railways by offering higher discounts.
This may result in a lowering of tariffs, but an increase in net revenues to
ENFE.
6.07      Passenger fares have not been increased since January 1974 because of
keen competition with buses on some routes, particularly between La Paz and
Oruro and Cochabamba; bus fares are generally lower than railway fares. How-
ever, the current situation indicates that, on the Eastern System, the occu-
pancy ratio is high on passenger trains--in some cases 100% or more--because
of the almost non-existence of bus service and the shortage of railway equip-
ment. Similarly, on the Western System, the present occupancy ratio is
between 60% and 80%, and the passengers tend to prefer trains because of
reliability, comfort and reduced travel time. In addition, a detailed cost
study, conducted by ENFE and consultants SOFRERAIL, indicated that the 1975
passenger revenues on the Western System did not quite cover the long run
marginal costs (more details are discussed in Annex 19). The average passenger
revenue per pass-km on the Western System was $b 0.24, while the marginal cost
was $b 0.25 ($b 0.23 and $b 0.21 on the Eastern System).



- 20 -
6.08      The passenger trains and the rail car (ferrobus) services are pro-
vided to poor and middle class people, and, additionally, a third type of
service, through autocarriles, is provided to the poorest working class group,
which has no alternative services for commuting to work locations. Therefore,
only a modest increase in passenger fares to cover the marginal costs and to
contribute toward the recovery of fixed costs is fully justified. The Ministers
of Transport, Communication and Aviation and of Planning and Coordination, as
well as ENFE, agreed, and raised passenger fares by an average of 10% in
February 1977.
C.   Future Prospects
6.09      Based on the traffic forecasts discussed in Chapter 5 and the pro-
posed Investment Plan, a forecast of operating revenues and expenses (in con-
stant mid-1976 pesos) was prepared for the years 1977 through 1981 (Table 9).
Other assumptions and explanatory notes are detailed in Annex 20. Also, it is
intended to improve the railways' competitive position with regard to highway
transport.
6.10      A summary of projected revenues and expenses is given below:
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
--(in millions of mid-1976 Pesos)---
Operating Revenues                 639      659      685     716      753
Working Expenses                   482      485     487      496      512
Depreciation                       104      110      115     122      127
Total Expenses                     586      595     602      618      639
Net Operating Revenues              53       64       83      98      114
Working Ratio /1                    76(78)  74(76)  71(75)  69(74)  68(73)
Operating Ratio /1                  92(95)  90(94)  88(93)  86(92)  85(91)
Return on Net Fixed Assets (%)   1.3        1.3      1.6     1.8      2.1
/1   Figures in brackets are the targets shown in the Program of Action.
See paragraph 6.12 for explanation.
The above table shows that the total revenues will rise from $b 639 in 1977 to
$b 753 in 1981, an increase of 18%, while the operating costs will rise from
$b 586 in 1977 to $b 639 in 1981, an increase of 9%, thus improving ENFE's
financial condition in real terms. The average freight revenue per ton-km is
expected to remain more or less the same between 1977 and 1981 ($b 0.90 in
1977 and $b 0.89 in 1981), but the average freight marginal cost per ton-km is
expected to decrease from $b 0.34 to $b 0.28 for the same period--a decrease
of 17% in real terms. The cost decreases are mainly due to improved perfor-
mance as a result of dieselization of locomotives, rehabilitation of workshops
and rolling stock and better cost control by ENFE's management. The details
of such cost reductions are discussed in Annex 20.



- 21 -
6.11      The working and operating ratios will continue improving from 76
and 92 in 1977 to 68 and 85 in 1981. The rates of return on net fixed assets
(after revaluation) will gradually improve from 1.3% in 1977 to 2.1% in 1981.
For a railway enterprise such as ENFE, the above ratios and rates of return
are considered satisfactory because they (a) provide the real test of ENFE's
performance in transferring the cost of railway service to the users based
on sound commercial policies; (b) help to achieve further improvement in the
cash flow of ENFE by generating adequate cash to meet most of its financial
needs; and (c) decrease the financial burden on the national budget. The
present tariff structure is adequate because it helps to further economic
development in the country and enables Bolivian exporters to meet the prices
in the international markets. Any further increase in the rate of return
would necessitate a significant increase in tariffs (which are already high)
in real terms; this is not desirable until the National Transport Survey is
completed and the transport pricing policies are determined. Also, the low
gasoline prices in Bolivia tend to increase intermodal competition, which may
have an adverse effect on rail traffic. It would therefore be realistic to
expect only the forecast goals incorporated in the working and operating
ratios, but these goals should be treated as a minimum requirement. However,
these goals are based on the expectation that the improved operating perform-
ance of ENFE would reduce the railway operating costs by about 17% (para.
6.10). Should ENFE fail to accomplish such reductions, it should be prepared
to increase the tariffs in real terms to meet the financial targets. For
instance, if, in 1979, cost reductions achieved are only half the expected
target, then ENFE would need to increase freight tariffs by 3% in real terms.
It was agreed during negotiations that every action will be taken, including
tariff increases, to meet the financial targets specified in the Program of
Action (Annex 10).  Agreement was also reached that these financial targets
will be reviewed once the National Transport Survey is completed and the
transport pricing policies are determined.
6.12      The forecast revenues and expenses were also calculated in terms
of current pesos to assess the impact of inflation upon the financial position
of ENFE and the need to increase tariffs to achieve financial targets. In
this forecast, allowances were made for the time lapsed between the cost in-
creases due to inflation and the action taken by ENFE to actually implement
the adequate tariff increases, i.e., obtaining approval from the Government
and issuing public notices. A time lag of four months is considered reason-
able. These targets are shown in the Program of Action, Annex 10. During
negotiations, therefore, it was agreed that ENFE would promptly propose, and
the Government would promptly approve, tariff increases sufficient to offset
any increased cost which may arise due to inflation or general wage awards.
Prior to any general wage award, ENFE should seek Government approval for
adequate tariff increases. Annual review of cost increases would also be
made. A sensitivity analysis of the financial projections was carried out
with reductions of 5% and 10% in the level of traffic and revenue. A 5% drop
would reduce ENFE's earnings by $b 65 million over the project period and by
$b 130 million over the plan period; a 10% drop would result in reductions of
$b 172 million and $b 345 million respectively. The annual working and
operating ratios would deteriorate by about 4% and 8%, and achievement of the
agreed financial targets would be delayed by about one year.



- 22 -
D.   Financing Plan
6.13      A forecast cash flow and financing plan is given in Table 11 and is
summarized in the following:
1977-1981
(mid 1976 $b million)
Funds Required
Investment:  Proposed Project 1977-1978                          867              30
Other Investments (1121-BO, bilateral
purchases, and investments between
1979 to 1981)                                  1,414             48
Debt Service                                                      604             21
Other                                                              17              1
Total                                                     2,902            100
Funds Available
ENFE's Internal Generation of Funds                            1,007              35
Proposed Bank Loan                                               552              19
Government Contribution                                           190              7
Other Foreign Loans /1                                           825              28
Bank Loan - 1121-BO                                              328              11
Total                                                     2,902            100
/1   Financing has already been arranged by ENFE for $b 389.1 million for 1977-
1978 and has to be arranged for $b 436.1 million for 1979-1981.
For reasons explained in paragraphs 5.02 and 5.03, the financing plan was
prepared to include the plan period of 1977-1981. ENFE is expected to generate
funds from its own operation to contribute 35% of the total funds required.
The Government contribution is estimated to be only 7% of the total funds
needed, while the proposed Bank Loan, other loans from international agencies
and the balance of existing Bank Loan 1121-BO represent 58%. The financing of
the foreign exchange component of the last three years of the Plan has not
been arranged. The Bank will have an opportunity to discuss the matter fur-
ther before such financing could be arranged.
6.14      The summary balance sheets of ENFE for 1977-1981 are shown in
Table 10. The fixed assets have been adjusted to 1976 market prices. As
mentioned in paragraph 6.02, ENFE intends to revise the values of fixed assets
in terms of 1977 market prices and to incorporate the results into the 1977
balance sheet.



- 23 -
6.15      The debt/equity ratio changed considerably in 1976 because of revalua-
tion of assets (52/48 in 1975, 18/82 in 1976). At the same time, the rate of
return on net fixed assets also changed downward. Without revaluation, the
rate of return will be 3.6% for 1977 (versus 1.3% with revaluation). The
Government financial support to ENFE is estimated to be nil in 1977, to in-
crease up to $b 72.0 million in 1980 and is then expected to decline to $b 14
million by 1981. In order to maintain its present sound financial condition,
ENFE should be cautious in future borrowings. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that ENFE will not incur any debt with a term of over one year
without the Bank's agreement unless net cash generated from operations in the
year when such debt is incurred is at least 1.5 times maximum debt service
requirement.
E.  Accounts, Budget and Audit
(i) Accounts
6.16      With the help of consultants SOFRERAIL, ENFE established a new and
comprehensive code of accounts in 1974. The schedule of expenses is well
designed for cost accounting purposes. The fixed assets of the Eastern and
Western Systems have now been separated, and depreciation is properly charged
to each system. ENFE has also attempted to mechanize the accounting procedures,
but satisfactory progress has not yet been achieved because of the lack of
adequate computer facilities. ENFE is seeking help from the Government for
better computer services. The consulting services will be continued during
1978 to ensure satisfactory operation of the accounting system.
(ii) Budgets
6.17      In October of each year, ENFE prepares and submits to the Ministry
of Finance the financial needs for railway operations and the local cost of
investments for the following year. The Government then adjusts these figures,
if necessary, and incorporates them into the overall national budget. Because
of the substantially improved financial condition of ENFE, the Government is
obligated to contribute only a portion of the local component of the investment
requirements. However, if ENFE experiences financial difficulties at any time,
the Government should be prepared to provide support. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government will provide ENFE with addi-
tional funds as shall be needed to carry out the project.
(iii) Audit
6.18      External audit is carried out by the Audit Section of the Ministry
of Finance; the Section has caught up with the backlog of audit reports for
1973 to 1975. The audit procedures and scope of work are satisfactory.
Recently, ENFE has been attending to the accounting exceptions of the auditors
and has been reducing inaccuracies, mainly in inventory accounting. The
standard clause should be repeated in the Loan Document that ENFE submits to
the Bank a copy of the auditors' report and its commentary within six months
of the close of the fiscal year.



- 24 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements on the following were reached with
the Government and ENFE:
(a) Investments for the construction of the highway between Santa
Cruz and Corumba to be made only after an adequate study
demonstrating the economic justification has been carried out
and the Bank has been given an opportunity to comment on it
(para. 2.10);
(b) The Bank to be given an opportunity to comment on the selection of
consultants and their terms of reference for carrying out studies
for extension of the Santa Cruz-Yapacani line (para. 3.11);
(c) Prior to any construction of the line beyond Yapacani, the Bank
to be afforded an opportunity to review and comment on the
economic justification (para. 3.11);
(d) Accounts of the operations on the line to Yapacani to be
kept separately and ENFE to be reimbursed by the Government
for any losses incurred until the line's revenues cover
operating costs and debt service charges (para. 3.11);
(e) The incremental cost of upgrading the Santa Cruz-Yapacani line
to ENFE's minimum operational standards to be studied and, if
justified, to be underwritten by the Government (para. 3.11);
(f) Investments for the interconnection of the Eastern and Western
Systems to be made only after an adequate study demonstrating
the economic justification has been done and the Bank has been
given the opportunity to comment on it (para. 3.12);
(g) Further major revisions of the Investment Plan to be done
in consultation with the Bank (para. 4.02);
(h) Disbursement for the National Transport Survey to be subject
to the Government assigning full-time counterparts during the
survey. Agreement was reached that at least five of these
counterparts will remain in the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination after the completion of the survey, during the
implementation phase and for an adequate period of time there-
after. The policy recommendations of the survey will be
implemented by July 1, 1981 (para. 4.03);
(i) Revised Action Program, to be carried out by ENFE with
assistance of the consultants (paras. 4.09 and 6.11);



- 25 -
(j) Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of US$50,000 but more than US$5,000 could be awarded after
solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers in Bank
member countries and Switzerland; the aggregate value of such
purchases not to exceed the equivalent of US$500,000 (para. 4.11);
(k) Failure to keep the Arica-Charana Section in adequate operating
condition to be an event of suspension of loan funds related to
the Western System, and ENFE to sign a supplemental letter if
satisfactory arrangement is not made with Chilean Railways
(para. 5.01);
(1) ENFE to carry out a revision in the revaluation of fixed assets
in terms of 1977 prices, to incorporate the results in the
1977 balance sheet, to continue revaluing fixed assets every
two to three years and to furnish to the Bank a full report
prepared by the auditors on each such revaluation (para. 6.02);
(m) Financial targets to be reviewed after the National Transport
Survey is completed and the transport policies are determined
(para. 6.11);
(n) ENFE to promptly propose, and the Government to promptly
approve, tariff increases sufficient to offset any increased
cost which may arise due to inflation or general wage awards
(para. 6.12);
(o) ENFE not to incur any debt with a term of over one year without
the Bank's agreement unless net cash revenue in the year when such
debt is incurred is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirement (para. 6.15); and
(p) The Government to provide ENFE with additional funds as shall
be needed to carry out the project (para. 6.17).
7.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$35.0 million equivalent to ENFE. The loan would be for a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of four-and-one-half years.
April 29, 1977






iRnJTVIA
APPRAISAL OFA THMIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Total Freight Movement in Bolivia
1967                          1974
Ton-Km      %                  Ton-Km         %         X               Sources
103    Subtotal    Total        10       Subtotal  Total
Data for 1967 based or. the DMOY,
ROAD TRANSPORT                                                                              Study for the Ministerio de Trarns-
portes y Comunicaciones.  Data ;r
Minerals                       46 500       4.9      1.5         -           _              1974 came from the following
Other Cargo                   549 700      58.1     18.1         -                    _    sources:
Total                      596 200      63.0     19.6       896 464     65.1      16.3            Min. de Transportes  y
Total                                                                .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cormunicaciones Estimate
RAIL TRANSPORT
Minerals                       .84 900      9.0      2.8        45 300       3.3      0.8
Other Cargo                   208 700      22.1      6.9       342 700      24.9      6.2            ENFE
Total                      293 600      31.1      9.7       388 000      28.2      7.0
RIVER TRANSPORT                11 400       1.2      0.4        24 480       1.8      0X5            Min. de Transportes y
Comunicaciones Estimate
LAKE TPRUNSPORT                31 400       3.3      1.0        31 700       2.3      0.6 6          Min. de Transpcrtes y
Communicaciones Estinate
AIR TRANSPORT                  13 300       1.4      0.4        35 378       2.6     .0.6  _
Subtotal                  945 900    100.0  -31.1    1 376 022    100.0          25.0
PIPELINE TRANSPORT
Crude Oil                   1 923 000       -       63.1    3 747 000        -       68.2            yp
Petroleum Products            176 000       -        5.8-    376 000         _        6.8              PB
Total                   3 044 900       -      100.0    5 499 022        -      100.0  8verage growth rate 1967/1974,
Source: IBRD Mission
February 1977



TABLE 2
*1gA  or  A 701tR015 1   Ln73-1.
1  9  7  3                           1        9  7                        1        9  7  5                        1     7
V          1        70701.          v                    T * O5O.L     1           I         r,o               w             E         TOTAL
.1.  O l2 C8 
Lbut" (W,)                                   2.101       1.222       3.323       2.101       1.222      3 S 23      2.087       1, 182      3,269          20Y              18         3261
Pas..ngs,l carried (units)                 869.397    279.771   1.149.168    681.496    276.225    957.721    831.959    37.080  1.7i39,039              907 384        310 371   1,245 955
p555885509 tk       (000)                  182.584      87.371      269.955    149.405      98.852    248.257    189.575    120.039    309,614           240. 75s        25 993    S966 751
A-Mg.c Jotretey  (km)                          210         321          235         219        358         259         228         379         269           620            395          2 94
Flltared(Net 'on-)
ilereib 1  79rs'fle)7t ton]734,743    220.066                     354.809    724.444    a"3.8fl  1.018.301    814.782    326.259  1.141.041            899 275         388 812   1,080 097
on-ke carrIedi                             25'3. 336    114.965    365.301    231.269    156.491    387,767    294.176    171.273    465.449             300 365        219 126      518 497
Aoeflgs hil.5.4                                341         522          383         319        533         38O         361         525         408           434            561          480
Tra-ffic Uolt.Thta  (pa-kactne-km)         431.920    202.336      635.256    380.674    255.359    636.024    483.751    291.312    075.63              541 119        344 119      985 238
!II. TPAY2iC 0DMI1
PUsa8nger-ku p-r Route-lw                   86.903      7i.498      81.238      71.131      80.8'4      74.709      9C.836    101.556      94.712        153 361         97 973      108 731
PFre9gh  ton-km per Route-lw               119.151      94.079     109.931    110.076    126.067    116.692    140.956    144.901    142.383             143 920        169 616      153 717
TV.  1M2iR N3O1
Tr701-or - Passenger                                                                                               378.031        -       378.031        778 555           -         776 555
- ml)ed                                                                                                  270.927    262.401    553.320         243 560        255 459      499 019
- FreIght                                                                                              1.255.285    565.721  1.821,006    1.495 447           713 104   2,208 551
-  t.l/                        I.971.288    588.573   2.559.861  1.624.583    724.89   2.349.451  1.904.243    848.122  2.752,365            2,517 562        968 563   3,486 125
,       -r k. toe-ip   Passenger                                                                                    132.939        -       132,989        180 363           -         180 363
4s -d                                                                                                 93.556    119.859    213,415          67 286        113 338      180.624
- , ght                                                                                              531.114    357.02    896.111           606 073       .450 819   1 056.892
- To.cl                       697.269    333.132   1.030.401    597.9i2    350.229    948.171    765.659    476.906  1.242.565              833.722        564 157   1 417 879
:ros- loa4 of twIne-Ions
- Passenger-on.                                                                                                        352        -            352           232           -             232
- 917 ned-ron-                                                                                                         345         424        386            276            444          362
-  reigt,-oe-                                                                                                        429         631         492           4D5            632          479
1tl_-.ons                                    354         566          403         368        483         404         402         562         451           339            582          407
tle0 load oI freight trio-to-                  127         195          143         142        216         165         193         202         196           173            225          192
V.  D33i7VTT71  OP -Sm!
ti.d-e. oI seam  on,Ilees i,,n fl..e            60          15           75          60         15          75          32          13         43             32 3/           13 3/       45
- K-i.  lIne                                    4           10           5          48          10          58    43           le              51             20             II           31
.Shin ere                                     12           5           17          12           5         17          12           3         15             12             '3           15
N      Itrr of ste1a  loceot3ives in operation  23           9           32         26           9          35          17           6         13             17                          2 37
-M1n1lIne (daily average)                     15           9           24          i6          7          23           9,          6         13              9              5           14
-D.ont-ereUdsly                                8 erge)     -       -   8          10           2          12           8           2         16              7              2            9
Diesel              J.offiotl088 50  (set (Inits)  24        5           29          23           5         28          24           6          30            24              6           30
- KattinmO                                      20           5           25          19          5          24          20           1          21           220                           1 7
Sh-nt.-s                                       4                                    4 -  4  4              4 4         4           5           9
Diesel tocotoea 1. uperstion  Neit.)            13           3           16          14          2          76          13           9 Al       27           .20             ID 6/        30
- RaIn) Ins (d#ily cocrag)                      13           3           16         13           0          15          16           3          19            18              4           22
-Shnters (dailyaosrage)                          -           _            _           1          -           1           2           6           8             2              6            8
A-clt6ilIty maini.bet diesel lo oe1tb- ost(S)  49          30           45          60          40         55          70                      70            80                          80
A-erage daily run of r lnline
diesel 1IoOntoton  in op-eratIon (1.)                                             420          -           -         403           -           -           449             -            -
N_uettIrfr p-s,nger oas  In n.tI3               84          33          117          85         39         124          et          13         102            89             13          102
A-iail*1Ity (%)                                 87         79           85          45          38         43          59          62          i0            63             69           64
Nu-ber of freight oars In fe.t/              1.189         471        1.759       1.124         548      1.672         822         235        IM7            912            235         1147
Number of freight cars in I edos             1.070         453        1.523         846         230      1.076         841         152         993           796            197          993
Aal lability 7%)                                 90         96           87          75          42         64          92          65          86            87             84           86
FreIght mt-ton-A, per scro sbie oa
per ysar (000)                              234         254          240         246        630         328         323         728         406           328            663          416
V.  SLTAF4
N1,mbeo of Olsplnyss                         4.971       1.430        6.401       4.890      1.446       6.336       4.635       1.408       6.043       44.907           1 440       6 047
D5.mtFt onstt per eployss - tct.                 68        144          100          78        180         102         105         209         129           117            239         146
(pass-s non-kd/h.tplyas
Systai:  WeWeatero-  Ze0aster,t Bsna.
2  In 1973 and 1974 Ip ro-s for  hooting a is inclded.
3 Numbers of P-4asngr and freight cars can be Adoifled by cenu  in nOlI-se. flute  Ic 1975 .d 1974 a_tMe  tsa   l-oOtt-ec,   -a555c8e0 and fteng)i  cure to he scrapped
uI iop-urty p--esonel io udcd.
FI/ Pi -3re. exciode 104 ke betWu-e Sao  CweS-B ets Roa in the  aeot asd  96k6 b6.c-  Gaqui-l. Paa is. te h es.
I/ loldica 1oce.enti-e  canted b7 abst1.
oLe:  Any black epas- reflects oeeliabilit  nf tha statistical data.
Source: rNIFE
Aprit 1977



9969999909-          -          99W                                                        -                           -           999.9V     999991    -           999999             99,99-    -         99991        99999999                       99699        9991      9999 --              9999999-9
9999      9999       -          990 -6                          --                                                      -          96990I    99  9                  999    99919 - IL  -  - -~-            V9'9         99        9999 -I              9991  -      9999      9999                 C99                                         9'0   0'-99.           9
9990  ~~~9ti  9999  -  9  -  -       -            -         -          -         -           9999       9991      9999        -                 -                    -            9099      9999       9909                   9999      99999     9990       -                                                 999999999999~~~~TIT  -qll  1-  -1-  I-I  -  IT
-v'  , ~ C'                -                -I.. V.TV                         I          E.- -                           99-9I 9     1990    900I   I'                      -          - -I      I~          TC         teI -  -               -          L- 9909-9999          099      II                      999930I99999-              ..          
999-9999*                                                                                                                                                                                                              -I9*  - - - -        -C- -    9.99- -99  999*9I999*   -  0999  999  999.9-    V-- -I          909-
9999  9999  -  9999  -  9--  >-    -         -         -          -         -            -         -          -          -       999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .999  -  9999  9999       9999      -         9090         990~~~~~~~~~l 1-  Z  99`9999  -   9999 V- -  1  II                                      9- 99
1.~~~~~  ILZ .  ell  09 C,                                                                                         U I CT    I99].     ILI C                                                              Iv I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9999  9  9999999.9   
-  -  -  -  -  999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9    999*9  -  9909  999*9  09999    0990  - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-E--                                                   --11    .                                                          
I99     09         9999      -                       -         -                       991I09I909                                                       -                             -                   -                      I 9 90 99  0990             -     90 I       99        0990      -                                      9999   99999999               9
999~~~9  999~~~99    999*9  -  .  -  -  -  999*0  999*9  9999  -   .          -         -           .       .         -          -         -            999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9    009-99    999~~~~~9  -  999*9  099~~~~~99    999*9  -                                                    99999     99976Z1- 
9EV'C II1,9            CW           . 9                  ..            --                                       - I LI  ZII    -0999             999*9         . -I                           ~        1  C       CZ  1     O -                  --999U9                990l9                III -                               999999999  "   999             99
~T--                                         g-~        L --      .         -g-          - -C  7-                                    990       0999        99 - I                                  - -,   -jC ~ vf1--    9999~    9990        90309009                          9999      909       -69999999                                                             9
16E'CC  1W.  1. It  Izi I               IWIT    -            CZ".,       C.  I      Cll-~~99  90    999..9IT                                                  99901     909091   900099                             909       099                                                      99399999             99
9999      9990 I     M           999        990        999                   999         999        999                  999          99 9 9,C                         99999II990                 -           999         999       9999       -99999                           9999 -                009Z999                                                           09
999%  99>99  99999999  09~9     99~99       09.9       1999         999      99999       999      9999         999       99099   999           999,9  99.9 9       99999    999-9      999.9       999O       999*9 9zo9           99999       99  99    999999 999IC         999'99                 9999.99
909         99       90         -           999         999       999                    99         9999        999=                  9999-    9999.09..099399                                     999.                           -6    --        -        I-         999       999       90         -999999                                            -  
9990  9999 -  9999  999     9909                 0990        999        9999       -          999         9990      0990       -          999   0909          99 9     -          999         -          -         -                      9099       0999      -          9909                       9999C9999.99996.999-999  -   ,,         99
999  9909 -  90~9      999        9999                 09*9        099        999        -          09  9        999      9999                  9990990999                   -          9999        900        9999      -         9999C99                 999999999999'9l999                                                                     99
C  _', ,i ....~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99999999999                                                                                                                                                                     






BOLIVIA                                                                                                      TABLE 3
Page 2 of 3
APPRAISAL. OF A THIRD1 RAILWAY PROJECT
1977-1981 Invoest-it Plan
1tota  Eapeoditores 1977-1981                  1 9 7 7                           1 9 7 8                              1 9 7 9                             1 9 8 B                          1 9 8 1                      Thtal EPenditures 1977-1978
Local  For.ion  ---- Total ---   Local   foreign   --- Total --  Local  Foreign   ---- _Total                 Local  Foreian--  Total m-  Loca   E264gi  ---- Total --  Local FOreign  --- Total ----  LocalI  Foreign                           ~~To-l
$6      111$      $6        01J$     $6      171$       $5b     UB$      3b      uB$        $b       171$     $6    1us$        $4      01$       $b       B       $b      178$    $b      01$       $b       UB$       $b       UB$        $6        128$
1.8     IMPROVEMEONT OF RR1.
ONBTALLATIONS
1.8.1  SonIc Crm.                 77.942   3.610  150.142   7.507   5.423          -       5.423  0.271  21.020  1.068   42.380   2.119  40.989  1,905   77.089  3,854  10.510  0.737  25.250  1.263                     -       --                 -     26.443   1.068   47.803        -.3o'i
1.8.2  0--r                       56.886   2.632  109.526   3.478  10.825          -      10.825  0.541  16,099  0.842   33.039   1.652  15.765  1.053   36.825  1.841  14.097  0.737  28.837  1.442    -                        --                 -     27.024   0.842   43.864        2.193
1.8.3  Studio0                     0.315   0.053    1.375   0.069   0.315  0.053    1.375  0.869               -       -         -         -        -       -         -       -         -       -        -       -       ---  -                            0.310    0.053    1.375    C, ~ 69
Bob-Total          135.143   6.293  261.043  13.052  16.563  0.053   17,623  0.881  37.219  1,910   75.419   3.771  56.754  2.858  113.914  5.895  24.607  1.474  54.087  2.705                            -       --                 -     53.782   1.963   93.042    4:'652
1.9     TELECOMMUONICATIONS        0.649   0.879   18.229   0.912   0.313  0.879   17.897  0.893    0.334              -       0.334   0.017        -       -         -       -        -       -         -       -               --                 -      0.649   0~879    18.229       0.912
Bob-Total            0.649   0.879   18.229   0.912   0.315  0.879   17.897  0.895   0.334               -       0.334   0.017        -                                           -        -       -       -       --                 -      0.649   0.879   18.229    0,912
2.      ACQUISITION OP
R011000 STOCK
2.1   PF-lght coc                    -    14.363  287.260  14.363          -    4.265   85,308  4.265          -    3.675   73.500   3,675          -    1.421   28.420  1.421         -    0.237   4.740  0.237         -    4.765   95.300  4.765          -      7,940  138.800       7.940
2.2     Pea-gor care 2nd
.la..050                                    1.0    0.590         -       -         -       -        -       -          -        -        -     0.590   11.800  0.590         -       -        -       -       -       --                 -                  ---
Bob-Total1                   14.953  299.060  14,953         -    4.265   85.300  4.265                3.675   73.500   3.675         -    2.011   40.220  2.011          -    0.237   4.740  0.237        -    4.765    93.300  4.7635                7.940  138.800      7.940
3.      ACQISITIBONB OP SPARE
PARTSB
3.1    For new paoeng-r
.ore   4%-                        0.023    0.460   0.023         -       -         - -      -       -             -         -        -         0.023    0.460  0.023         -       -        - -     -       -             -        -        -             -         -          -
3.2    For  ne  fr-ight
core   2%-                        0.292    5.840   0.292         -    0,085      1.700  0.085       -      .101      2.020   0,101       -    0.007    0.140  0.007          -    0.004   0.080  0.004        -    0.095       1.900  0.095        -      0.186    3.720    0.186
3.3    For cabingi fleet             -      0.106    2.120   0.106         -     0.053     1.060  0.0533             0.053     1.060   0.053        -       -         -       -        -       -         -       -                     --  -                        0.106     2.120      0.106
3.4    Left-ove  fen  2od
LDB-LDH-DHB-FB               -       .16   14,320   0.716          -     0.716   14.320  0.716         -       -         -        -         -       -         -       -        -       -         -       -       -       --                --               0.716   14.320       0.716
3.5    Unlt .-hang.u -LDE-LDB--               -          -        -        -       -          -       -        -       -         -        -                 -         -       -        -       -         -       -       -       --                 ----
DHB-PB-                             1.632   32.640   1.632         -       -    -         -       -          1.632   32.640   1.632             -        -                 -       -        - -_                         --                 --              1.632   32.640       1.632
Bob-Total1                    2.769   53.380   2.769         -    0.854   17.080  0.854          -    1.706   35,720   1.786          -    0.030    0.600  0.030          -    0.004   0.080  0.004        -    0.995      1,900  0.0935              2.640   52.800       2.640
4.      MDERNBIIZATION OP
ICRKSHOPS AND DEPOTS
4.1    W-okehop- Viacha              -      0.648   12.960   0.648         -    0.648   12,060  0.648          -       -         -        -         - -  -  -             -        -       -            -        -       -            -             -           -  0,648   12.960    0.648
4.2    W-okohop  U- O.i              -      0.368    7.360   0.368         -       -          -       -        -     0.184    3.680   0.184         -    0.184    3.685  0.184         -       -         -       -       -       --                --               0.184     3.680     0.184
4.3    W-orbhop -Gu-araohi   2.627   0.484   12.307   0.615   1.050  0.484   00.731  0.536   11576                     -       1.576   0.079        -       -         -       -        -       -         -       ---  -  -                                2.627   0.484   12.307    0.615
4.4    Workahop   R b-ho             -      0.678   13.560   0.678         -       -          -       -        -    0.339    6.780   0.539          -     0.339     6.780  0.339        -      -         -       -       -       --                --               0.339    6.780    0.339
4.3    Workahp   O- or               -      0.221    4.420   0.221         -       -          -       -        -    0.221    4.420   0,231          -       -         -       -        -                 -       ---  -  -                                   -      0.221    4.420      0.021
4.6    Depots,   Qoijarr--
Yaculba                  1.261   0.077    2.801   0.140   0.420  0.077           1.960  0.096    0.641    -          0.841   0.042                                                                                           -                  1.261   0.077    2.801    0.140
Bob,-Total           3.688   2.476   53.408   2.670   1.471  1.209   23.651  1.282   2.417  0.744   17.297   0.665                    -    0.323   10.460  0.323          -       -        -       -       -       --                 -      3.888   1.953   42.948       2.147
3.      TECHNOICAL ASSISTANICE   11.949   3.234   76.629   3.831   2.627  0 706   16.747  0.837   2.627  0.716   16.947   0.847   2.691  0.727   17.231  0.862   2.396  0.632  13.036  0.752  1.608  0,453   10,668  0,533l  5.234   1.422   33.694                                     1.684
Bob-Total           11-949   3.234   76.629   3.831   2.627  0.706   16.747  0.6837   2.627  0.716   16.947   0.867   2.691  0.727   17.231  0.862   2.396  0.632  13.036  0.752  0.608  0,453   10.668  0.333   5.234   1.422   33.694                                   1.684
Totolo Page 2            151.629  30.606  763.749  38.187  30.076  7,066  180.296  9.014  42.597  8.831  219,217  10.961  59.445  6.149  182.425  9.121  27.003  2.347  73.943  3.698  1.608  3.313  107.868  5.393  63.073  16.797  399.313    19.975






TABLE 3
Page 3 aT 3
APPRAISAL OF A MI"8 RAILWAY PROJECT
19707-1981 loc-t-an  Flea
Total hc-ditor-   1977-1981                       1  9  7  7                              1  9  7  8                             1970  9                              1  9        0                       1  9  8  1                   T-t1 i.areditte.. 1977-1978
loca   local       -      Tatal -        local-F-g Tatel.--    local   Factg                          Tae1           local  FP...ala    m Total     Lace   Fat-i   ---Total  taco 1  Foca-Total                                    Lca   Parel               Fati
6.   BOOt TOT  STE-ATL
6.1  Tatel  Pega 1                           526,402  29,809  1,123,980   06,196  113,869  10,140  308,669  16,430  100,830   1.010  160,030   8,100  134,936  11,603  360,006  10,000   86,610  4,334  1073,295   8,665  $1,152   1,992   91,990   4,399  232,699  11,950    491,699  24,582
6.2  Total  Page 2                           15, 29  360          76322      2279 23 ,  .2720,976   7.966  120.296   9,01224  4.225927   8,831~ ~21921   10~,96    59,445   6,149  182,425  J,121  .270032,$41   7394    3,698   1,0    5.31$  107.868   5.393   63.573  16.797    399.513  19.975
Sabtata1         678,031  60,485  1,000, 700    94,080  134,845  18,7006  508,965  25,446  101,400  10041   382,240  19,.11i1  194,381  10,7052  540,401  207,401  113,818   6,681  0407,009  012,363  53,0760    1,305  199,858   9,992  3 16,271  28,8647    891.210  64,557
7. lataeca
7.1  POpalcal 150 ac -ace, 17.
T-argoT                                33,903  0..6042    4,j0039  .2,300  TZ~            0,1%4    10.302   0 ,0525    9,03   010 1,,2      093$2  .22.92.     7 12 .. 9f 02.177 .1325922    0,6   5,      0,066      7.001   0,5    2,8    0,073   4j14a   0,0    15.833    0.288                 21.595    1.088
02  Tate                                    011,934  61,089  1,033,032   96,685  14,0 18,894  519,407  25,92l1909,520  10,140  397,340  19,666  204,100l 007.929  062,660  28,134  119,299  6,740  204,239  12,713  56,448   7,308  104,006  10,199  332,100  29,035    912,800  45,633
7.3     i_ts    p.0-                                      -            -         -        84       75.-                -        8.07.    0.524                        7  .47,    0.05     -                 7.00    7.30       -                7.00      7.00 %
0.4  "cte    c-,paod  0 %                                   -         -                   6.50    6.60        -        -       13.00   10.40        -        -       25.05    04.10                        34.00  33.00                 -      43.40   42.30         -        -
7.0  Ftal                                    151 ,770  12,476    401,290   20,064    9,203   1,040   34,143   0 ,707   06,482   0,361   32,0702   2,501    51,0125   .,321  130,445   0,802   40,560  2,026   05,082   4,254  24,498   3,020   86,918   4,346   35,685   2,808                            81,845   4,992
8  . -Oed Taco  Ratl-ap 1---toa
Plea                        663~~~~~~~~~b,70    7,,)56   2,335,020   106,047  150,790  00,141  5303610  20,6078  007,000  11,700  450,042  02,030  255,125   2 07000,125  35,006  159,861  8,903  339,3201  16,960  80,946  00,499  298,924  14,545  367,792  31,843  1,884,652  50,229
9.   Addltta...l P-aet.-
9.1  Updett-9 aT Oa-rr1 Tcaa...a              11,656   1,308       41,656      2,0802           -        -             -       6,213   0,800   22, 213   1,110       3,110   0,400   11,111   0,555    1,166  0,158    4,166   0,288   1,166   0.150    4,164    0,208                6,213   8,880        22,213   0.1115
9.,2  lghaay_                                  2,3160 0,0           0230       068       1,180   0,250    0,8         ,0       1,080   0,250      0,0       039         -       -          -       -         .                                                                        2.360   8,300        12,368   0.618
9.3  Base coat estte,aca          ~~~~~14,06   2,080    54,016    2,700    1,180   0,250    6,180   0,309           7,303   0,030   20, 393   1,420    3,0101   0,400   11,111   0,555    1,866  0,050    4,166   0,208   1,166   0,158    4,166   0,208    8,573   1,300                      34,573   1,729
9.4  Phy:it-I ca0tg7a002.2                               ,,,,,       ,Qf0Q     0.035    0.059             02.059   0.002    0.370  0..z             37022  2a22      0.137      .      ,,j,5    0.008    0.038       -       8058  0,0032 .2.028           -     .Afl   .8.003     .8420          -       ...8Afl-  J.=
9m,.5  Tta                                    14.316   2,800        30,016    2,737      1.239   0,250      0,239   0,312    0,763   1,030   26,0763   1,438    3.260    0,408    11,266   8.563    0,224  0,158    4,124   0,211   1,224   0,158                  4,224    0,211    9,082   1,308         35,802    1,750
9.6  Prtai   cttg.    ae                       2.743   8.386        10.463    02.523    0.076   2a226    0.396   0.020         1.027   0.161    4.267   0,013    0. 777   0.006    2,097  0.,14.5    0,379  0,049   12.359  02.068  02.84  02063   .1.744  .LOAZ8   12.202    .e178                        aIh      .232I
9.1  G-ed TotL aT AdditloeI Pcojacts   17,659   2,366               65,179    3,258      0,315   0,266    6,635   0,331        8.790   0,202   33,030    1,051    4,043   0,406   03,963           698    0,603  0,198       5,383   8,279   1,7088   8,213    5,968    0,298   10.105   1.478             39,665   1.983
10.3  Occd OT-l aT  -roec                     881,183  75,931  2,400,200   020,085  1321,85  20,407  560,240   28,033  223,090  02,004  481,002  --202  159,008  22,044   704.000  35,004  161,464  9,171  34,4,004  07,246  82,654  10,710  296,892  04,843  377,887  33,325  10,44,317  52,212
Notea:  21)  The  bhar  Incae,c  Pla. does ca  ittlad   Icoo-i-  poah-ec  b11atap-0ly by 1001 baofc  cha Flea  -e  -p-acd.  Thio oa o4ced ly the Book.  Th  ie                             . ioo 1o aotao-a-  th-ca, ilat .d the debt s-ci-a ch-cgee at thes.. ae vs
22$  last  -etiata  er  bh...d ot H-ch 0007 pIce.
Apr1l19270






TABLE 4
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1/
1977-1978 Project and Proposed Loan
$b Million                       US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
1.       WAY AND WORKS
1.1      Rehabilitation of Track
1.1.1    Ties - Wood                                            59.466            -    59.466        2.973          -     2.973
1.1.2            Concrete, cement, aggregate                      1.154           -      1.154       0.058          -     0.058
steel bars                                -       1.640      1.640           -     0.082       0.082
1.1.3    Track materials turnouts                                     -     41.600    41.600             -      2.080     2.080
1.1.4    Labor                                                  33.095            -    33.095        1.655          -      1.655
1.1.5    Rail Welding                                            10.202           -    10.202       0.510           -     0.510
Sub-Total                        103.917      43.240   147.157        5.196      2.162      7.358
1.2      Ballasting
1.2.1    Labor                                                  69.715            -    69.715        3.486          -     3.486
1.2.2    Quarrv Equipment                                             -     28.100    28.100             -      1.405      1.405
1.2.3    Ballast Cars                                                 -     40.100    40.100             -     2.005       2.005
1.2.4    Installation of Quarries                                 0.649           -      0.649      0.032           -     0.032
Sub-Total                         70.364      68.200   138.564        3.518      3.410      6.928
1.3      Maintenance of Track (deferred)
1.3.1    Ties - Wood                                            31.586            -    31.586        1.579          -      1.579
1.3.2    Rails                                                        -       9.440     9.440            -     0.472      0.472
1.3.3    Track and Other Materials                                    -           -          -                      -          -
Sub-Total                         31.586       9.440    41.026        1.579      0.472      2.051
1.4      Tools and Equipment for Track Maintenance
1.4.1    Tools                                                        -      34.900    34.900            -      1.745      1.745
1.4.2    Spare Parts for Mechanical Tools                             -       6.300      6.300           -     0._15      0.315
1.4.3    Ballast Tamping Machine                                      -       6.380      6.380           -     0.319      0.319
1.4.4    Concrete Tie Plant                                       4.330      11.020    15.350        0.217     0.551      0.768
1.4.5    Track Cars                                                   -      21.500    21.500            -      1.075      1.075
Sub-Total                          4.330      80.100    84.430        0.217      4.005      4.222
1.5      Reinforcement of Bridges
1.5.1    Reconstruction of Bridges Ollague-Uyuni                  5.337           -      5.337       0.267          -      0.267
Sub-Total                          5.337            -     5.337       0.267           -     0.267
1.6      Reconstruction of Earth Fills - Protection Works
1.6.1    Western Region - Oruro-Cochabamba                       12.990       9.460    22.450        0.650      0.473      1.123
1.6.2       "       "    - Other Sectors                          2.164       6.740      8.904       0.108      0.337      0.445
1.6.3    Eastern Region - Puerto Pailas                           2.164      16.900    19.064        0.108      0.845      0.953
1.6.4       "       "    - Widening of Platform                       -           -          -           -          -          -
1.6.5    Spares - 10%                                                 -       4.920      4.920           -      0.246      0.246
Sub-Total                         17.318      38.020    55.338        0.866       1.901      2.767
1.7      Construction of "Variantes"
1.7.1    La Paz-Villazon  (4)                                    19.847           -    19.847        0.992          -      0.992
Sub-Total                         19.847            -    19.847        0.992          -      0.992



TABLE 4
Page 2 of 2
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1977-1978 Project and Proposed Loan
$b Million                        US$ Million
Local       Foreign   Total        Local      Foreign   Total
1.8      lpovement of Railroad Installation
1.8.1    Santa Cruz                                              26.443      21.360    47.803         1.322      1.068      2.390
1.8.2    Oruro                                                   27.024      16.840    43.864         1.351     0.842       2.193
1.8.3    Studies                                                  0.315       1.060      1.375       0.016      0.053      0.069
Sub-Total                          53.782      39.260    93.042        2.689      1.963      4.652
1.9      Telecommunications                                       0.649      17.580    18.229        0.032      0.879      0.911
Sub-Total                           0.649      17.580    18.229        0.032      0.879      0.911
Sub-total way and works          307.130    295.840   602.970         15.356    14.792    30.148
2.       Acquisition of Rolling Stock
2.1      Freight Cars                                                  -    158.800   158.800        _    -      7.940      7.940
Sub-Total                               -    158.800   158.800             -      7.940      7.940
3.       Acquisition of Spare Parts
3.1      For New Freight Cars                                          -      3.720      3.720            -      0.186      0.186
3.2      For existing Fleet                                            -      2.120      2.120            -      0.106      0.106
3.3      Left Over from 2nd Pruject  LDE-LDH-DHS-FB                    -     14.320    14.320             -     0.716      0.716
3.4      Unit Exchanges  LDE-LDH-DHS-FB                                -     32.640    32.640             -      1.632      1.632
Sub-Total                               -      52.800    52.800            -      2.640      2.640
4.       Modernization of Workshops And Depots
4.1      Workshops - Viacha                                            -     12.960    12.960             -     0.648      0.648
4.2                 - Uyuni                                            -      3.680      3.680            -     0.184      0.184
4.3                 - Guaracachi                                  2.627       9.680    12.307        0.131      0.484      0.615
4.4                 - Robore                                           -      6.780      6.780            -     0.339      0.339
4.5                 - Oruro                                            -      4.420      4.420            -     0.221      0.221
4.6      Depots    - Quijarro-Yacuiba                             1.261       1.540      2.801       0.063      0.077      0.140
Sub-Total                           3.888      39.060    42.948        0.194      1.953     2.147
5.       Technical Assistance                                     5.254      28.440    33.694        0.263      1.422      1.685
Sub-Total                           5.254      28.440    33.694        0.263      1.422      1.685
Grand Total Railway              316.272    574.940   891.212         15.813    28.747    44.560
6.       Special Projects
6.1      Updating of General Transport Study                     11.656      30.000    41.656        0.583      1.500      2.083
6.2      Technical Assistance to Highway Maintenance Project 2.360           10.000    12.360        0.118      0.500      0.618
Sub-Total                          14.016     40.000    54.016         0.701     2.000       2.701
7.       Base Cost Estimate                                     330.288    614.940   945.228        16.514    30.747    47.261
7.1      Contingencies
7.2      Physical                                                16.514       5.860    22.374        0.826      0.293      1.119
7.3      Price                                                   66.843      83.300   150.143        3.342      4.165      7.507
Sub-Total                         83.357      89.160   172.517        4.168      4.458      8.626
Grand-Totals                     413.645    704.100 1.117.745         20.682    35.205    55.887
1/ The proposed Loan is 100% of foreign exchange component i.e. US$ 35.2 million, rounded off to US$35 million.
Source: ENFE and mission estimates.
April 1977



I 1. 1       21 1                                                11 I                                             21,           211. 1            I,  I                          2- 1               II.,            Ill           1-                12. 1           21
33.1                                                                                                                                             -    1          136            III.o
1.1            21,              W,               2-                            I-               I1.1            10               II,             11.1           I,                 J-            -1.1             I                         21-           Il                1-               ",              -II,                             21.7
1-                1,                                                                                                                          -3            -1                                                13.1            511             11.1               1.1
ZI.,                                                                             41-             1-                                                                11.1            50.
11.1             1,2            311             1-               -I                                               I-              335             II.,             -I
.1                                                             I,  1              1.7           -                21.1             '.2           III                11.1                        13:            1-1.1                       III                                                                                  1.3           56                              IM
9.9                            -                -I                I.,         zl               7.,              I.,           -11                -              -             21                 -                             2             1.7           Ll         ll
W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P.I          1.              17.1
1-   3.
-I              III              161.1             7-                                            I-                             II-                                                                                          11-            1-                             -.1                11.2
21               I.,                           "I                                             j2l             .l            I.D         -- I I                  I            I.,            VI                                                                                1.2                            1-                 1. I          11            1-
-                 I.',                          'I"                                           -                 I.,           I.,         -                   I.,               1.6          ll                                2.1            -               I.,              2.,            171              I.,                             III
:I              17.               I.,          III                             I-              112                                             14,                  I.,           I.,         -                I.,           2.1          -                                                                                                    52             .l                             -                                                471 
M                                               jll                                            o,3               .1          I.,          21
IN. I                                              7I .                                                                          I                71  1          1 71                    I        I I .                                                     51               1 7 .1           12.             "z            II I .4            11 . I          IN             l .1                            1,11          19,                94.            4
171 .1                           III            Ir.,               -z            2I4           II-                                                     I                                                                                                           7         I
  .1            I I            lz I            1-                                                                                               21                                                                  1.3
1--l             IlM              311           M1.1             -.1                                                                                              141.1             Ill           131.1            161.1
. . . I . .    Ill,           1- 1               2 11           14.. 1           14 1I           II              11, 7          11. I                            124 .1           I II                             1-           211.             II               .1       "I.?            114
all,             522.3                          -.1                                             111.4                                            I.. 1            156.             11           I'M
1. I           I.I            142                -                                              5.4                             21                1. I           1.I           all                -1                                         -1            -1            1 14               -1               II.I                           2-                II.,            III                             -7              1 11           4-1 
-                             131                -                                             I.,                             III               2.,             I.,           Ic                  1.9           I.,          -              I-1            I.,          -                   11.1              .l                           II.,               I.,          53,             I-                8.1            117             - 4 
11-                             1:1                              1-            411             1-               1-              419             I-              1-              5DI                17,2          17,1    41                 -I             I-           411                 4-                I,            I,              11-1                               14           11.1             21.1            -               11.1 
o                                                                            11              I.,                                                                                               -6              7. 3        -              I-2             I.,         112                                                                                                                                                  12,             II..             I- 
7,7                 2         31,               1.2               .2          Ill                2M            11.3          11                          I..7          -                    7.1            - 1             11-                                                                                                                                              56             ".5
12.I           I-               4,               41.4             -1.1                        II-                1-             -                 17-            11.1            I                                11.1         '14                           ?.-                             2Z,                               1,            L-I              III.4            ...                                                            I 11 1 
21.1                         47.1                  2          -               5-               21.4            ...
21.1           11.1                              - I                            12,             11.1              1.4           521              21.,            11.1            5,                               11.,         11)                           11.1                                                                                                                             21.1                                            26.1  
-              4..            5I,                                             51,             I'll              -              III              -1                             -                  1-1           1-                           11.1            7.2         III                                                                G
I                                            1 4
Z                                                                                                                       4,             1,,                            4"                2, I    I---                                       1-                                                      -5   Ill
1'4-`                                          '4                  I                                            I:              4               I                                            3"             I               4.1         Ill 
174i           21,
7
III                              1 7. 1                        -1               -5              11,              -4                                                              11.1          12I                          11 I                                                                                                                                                                                             2I
-7
411.1         -21.1          31.
t.11 Z.-         I                                                 171.,            411        1111I.,
21






BO LI V I A
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic, Actual for 1970-1976-  and Proiections for 1977-1981
T R A I N S                                        T O T A L                        AUTOCARRILES                            RAIL CARS                               T O T A L
First class                    Second Class
Pass.   P-ss.Km.    Av.Trip   Pass.   Pass.km.    Av.Trip    Pass.   Pa.s.km.    Av.Trip                Pass.    Pass.km.    Av.Trip   Pass.           Pass.km.       Av.Trip     Pass.    Pass.ks.         Av.Trip
(000)   (mIllion)      (km.)    (000)   (million)         (km.)    (000)   (million)        (km.)       (000)    (million)       (km.)    (000)        (m1llion)       (km.)      (000)    (.illlon)         (km.)
Western Region
1970            79         15         193        642        100         156         721       115         160           75           15          69         206          90          437         1,002         210           210
1971            83         27         325        601        113         187        684        140          204          66            5          81         164          65           397          914         210           230
1972            81         29         358        586        100         171        667        129          193          58            4          69         162          61          377           887         194           219
1973            86         32         376        649        112         173         735       144          197          50            4           83         84          34          403            869        182           210
1974            73         26         356        517        107         207         590       134          225          47            5         106          45          12          267           681         149           219
1975           118         43         364        555        107         192         673       1SO          224          61            6           91         98          33           338           832        190           228
19966                                                                                                                                                                                               972        251 4         258
1977           231         93         403        636        122         192         867       215          248          66            6          91         115          39           339        1,048         260           248
1978           240         98         408        626        126         201         866       224          259          66            6           91        115          39           340        1,047         269           257
1979           237         98         413        611        126         206         848       224          264          66            6           91        135          49           363        1,049         279           266
1980           247        103         417        625        131         210         872       234          268          44            4           91        135          49           364        1,051         289           275
1981           254        109         429        623        136         218         877       245          279          44            4           91        136          50           368         1,057        291           283
Eastern Region
1970            22          5         245        159         34         215         181        39          218            9           3          382         38          16           415           228         58           258
1971            14          5         357         162        34         211         176        39          222            6           2          385         41          18           435           223         59           265
1972            20          9         450        191         43         225         211        52          246            6           2          368         26          12           479           243          66           272
1973            44         19         442         215        57         267         259        76          296           -           -            -          21          11           506           280          87           312
1974            51         32         627        175         42         240         226        74          327           17           8          500         34          17           500           276          99           359
1975            62         27         435        190         59         310         252        87          347            7           3          378         58          30           515           317         120           379
1976                                                                                                                                                                                                325         129 1         397
1977            62         32         518        198         70         354         268       106          396           10           1          100         69          36           521           347         142          409
1978            67         35         521        207         76         367         282       115          408           10           1          100          76         40           526           368         156          424
1979            76         39         525        219         84         384         301       127          422           10           I          100         83          44           528           394         272          436
1989            81         43         528        231         91         394         322       139          432           10           1          100          92         49           531           424         189           446
1981            89         47         530        246        100         407        346        153          442          10            1          100        101          54           533           457         208           455
Source: ENFE, SOFRERAIL and Mission Estimate
1/ 1976 (October to December Estimated)
January 1977



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF' KTIITRD RAMLWk- -PROJECT,
Economic Evaluation
Sensitivity Test
Best Estimate         Cost Increased             Benefits Decreased
ER (%)            by 15%; ER (%)            by 25%; ER (%)
Western System
Freight Investments                   16.9                    14.5                       12.1
Eastern System
Freight Investments                   19.0                    16.4                       13.9
Passenger Investments                 44.1                    28.3                       12.1
Overall Investment Plan                18.0
Source: Mission Estimate
February 1977



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Track Rehabilitation Program
Sensitivity Test
Two-Year Delay in Completion
Best Estimate    Cost Increased        Benefits Decreased    of the 1977-1978 Project;
ER (%)        by 15%; ER (%)        by 25%; ER (%)                     ER (%)
WESTEPT SYSTEM
Uyuni-Ollague                     29.1              24.1                 20.1                          18.6
Viacha-Uyuni                      19.2              16.7                 14.4                          13.5
Viacha-Charana                    20.7              18.1                 15.6                          15.6
La Paz-Viacha                     46.7              39.4                 33.2                          19.7
Oruro-Cochabamba           over 100,0               63. 2                43.6                          22.5
Rio Mulato-Potosl          over 100.0               63.3                  ;3.7                         22.5
Vilmz n- Uyuni                    55.3              43.5                 34.7                          21.1
EASTERN SYSTEM
Santa Cruz-Corumba               25.2               20.8                 17.3                          13.4
Source: Mission Estimate
January 1977
F3
00






TABLE C
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Income Statement - Actual 1973-1975. Tentative 1976 and Forecast - 1977-1981
($b million)
1973         1974         1975         1976         ---1977-----                   ----19781- -- 979----_-                                       ---- 19800--- 9 8-1-----
West      East    Total         West      East    Total         West       East    Total        West       East    Total          West      East    Total
Operating Revenues:
Passenger                                     30.2          41.9        55.9        72.4         69.5      37.2    106.7         70.7      39.5    110.2         74.0      43.4    117.4          76.2      46.6    122.8          78.5      51.0    129.5
Freight                                      150.0         233.1       455.6       490.0        290.4    228.9    519.3         299.1    240.5    539.6         309.1    253.3    562.4          321.7    266.6    588.3          336.4    282.5    618.9
Miscellaneous                                 13.8          22.8        50.4        37.2         11.0       2.0      13.0         7.1       1.9       8.9          3.8       1.2       5.0         4.0        1.0       5.0         4.0        1.0       5.0
Total Operating Revenues                194.0        297.8       569.9        599.6       370.9    268.1    639.0         376.9    281.8    658.7          386.9    297.9    684.8         401.9    314.2    716.1          418.9    334.5    753.4
Operating Costs
Administration and General                      -           41.1        51.5        59.0         40.5      32.0      72.5        40.9      32.7      73.6        41.1       33.7      74.8        42.5      34.9       77.4        44.1      35.9       80.0
Mtce. track, telecnunication and signals -                  84.2       104.7       116.2         76.9      56.8    133.4         77.1      58.2    135.3          77.6      59.0    136.6         78.8      39.0      137.8        79.2      61.3    140.5
Maintenance of Euipment                         -           54.3        57.8        67.4         47.5      21.7      69.2        47.9      22.4      70.3        47.3       23.7      71.0        47.0      26.0       73.0        47.5      28.7       76. 2
Traffic and Conercial                           -           53.7        59.8        61.9         57.8      29.1      86.9        58.7      30.0      88.7        59.0       30.9      89.9        60.0      33.0       93.0        62.2      34.1      96.3
Tractio,                                        -           40.4        48.9        75.9         44.8      33.1      77.9        44.7      33.0    '77.7         44.2       31.2      75.4        45.0      33.0       78.0        46.6      35.7      82.3
Miseellsnenus 1!                                -           32.7        76.5        45.3          -
Ioss on  subsidized food                       -           44.1         43.3        45.0        25.3       16.4     42.0         24.8      14.9      37.7        25.0      13.9       38.9        23.5      13.5      37.0         23.1      13.4      36.5
Total Working Costs                     236.0        350.5       452.5        470.7       292.8    189.1    481.9         294.1    191.2    485.3          294.2    192.4       486.6      296.8    199.4    496.2          302.7    209.1-   511.8
Depreciation                                  40.4          40.4        50.4       103.0          -         -       103.7         -         -      _110.2          -         -       115.7         -         -       12z.4          -         -       127,.5
Total Operating Costs                   276.0        390.9       502.9        573.7         -          -      585.6          -         -       595.5         -         -       602.3          -         -       618.6          -         -      639.3
Net Operating Revenue (less)                 (82.4)        (93.1)       67.0        25.9          -         -        53.4         -         _         63.2         -         -        82.5         -         -         97.5         -         -       114.1
Non-operating receipts                      (                4.4         1,1        22.2          -         -         5.4         -         -         5.4                              5.4         -         -          5.4         -         -         5.4
Non-operating expenses                      (  1.4           8.2        (1.7)        0.6          -         ,         '.8         -         -         2.2          -         -         2.2         -         -                                --         2.2
Net revenue or (loss) before interest         83.0         (96.9)       66.4        47.5          -         -        57.0         _         -        66.4          -         -       85.7          -         -       l-:            _         _       117,3
Loan interet 2/                                 6.2          6.3        11.4        23.1          .         -        40.5                            61.0          --                 95.3         -         -        103.0                           109.3
Net revenue (loss)                           (89.2)       (103.2)       55.0        24.4          _         _        16.5         _         -         5.4          -         -        (7.6)        -         -         (2.3)                  -         8.0
Significant Ratios
Working ratio %  /                           122           118          79           79           -         -        76  (79)    -          -        74  (76)    -           -        71  (75)    -           -       69  (74)                -        68 (73)
Operating ratio 7.                           142           131          88          96            -         -        92  (95)    -          -        go  (94)    _           -        88  (93)    -          -        g6  (92)                -        85 (91)
Tine interest earned                            -            -           5.8          2.1         -         -         1.4         -          -        1.1          -         -         0.9         -         -          1.01
Debt service coverage                           -            -           1.3          1.4         -         _         1.6         -                   1.8          -                   1.6         -         -         1,6          -         -         1.7
Return on net fixed assets %                   -             -           7.7          1.1         -         -         1.3         -         -         1.3          -         -         1.6         -         -         1.8          -         -         2.1
1/ Under new sca-unting systzn niseellaneous esponses would be charged to specific accounts.
2/ The interest rate of 8.8%, used in the calculation of interest zmounts for IBRD proposed loan, was later reduced to 8.2% but due to insignificant effect the above figures were unaltered.
3/ Figures in brackets are the targets shown in the Time-phas-d Action Progran (see also para. 6.12)
Note:  The fore-st 1977-1981 is in constant dollars of nid-1976.
Source: ENFE and Mission Estimates.
April 1977






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Summnary Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1973-1975 Actual
1976 Tentative; 1977-1981 Forecast
(in $b million)
1973        1974          19 75        1976            1977          1978         1979          1980          1981
ASSETS                                                         (Actual)                  -(Tentative)       -------------  (F9orecast) ----                        1
Fixed Assets - Gross                                621          808          1,254        6,459            7,820          8,396        8,414        8,606         8,905
Less Accumulated depreciation                       (96)        (136)          (186)      (2,591)          (3,210)        (3,194)      (3,171)      (3,205)       (3,317)
Net Fixed Assets                              525           672         1,068         3,868            4,610          5,202       5,243         5.401         5,588
Work-in-Progress                                      7            15            23            24               20            20            20           20            20
Current Assets: -Cash                                11            27            28            31               40            40           40            41            43
-Sundry debtors                   122          155            247           210             140           148           162           155           158
-Stores - Railway                 44            54             84            92               95           97            72            74            77
- Pulperia                 3            7              4             5                6            5             6             6             5
Total               180           243            363          338              287           290           280           276          283
Suspense                                             29           14              -             -                -             -             -            -             -
Total Assets                                  741           944         1.454         4,230            4,917         5,512        5,543         5,697         5,893
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities: - Cormercial                    95           147           194           155               96            97            98          100           102
- Social                     19            26            35            22               22            19            15           10            10
Total               114           173           229           177              118           116           113           110           112
Long Term Debt                                       96          221            635           737            1,225         1,756        1,743         1,774         1,840
Reserves:               - Social                     15            12              7           16               25            24            33            22           31
Equity                                              571           644           684           874              902           963        1,017         1,144         1,265
less accumulated deficits                           (91)        (127)          (115)         (200)            (201)         (195)         (211)        (201)         (203)
Asset Revaluation                                    14            14            14         2,626            2,848         2,848        3,654         2,848         2,848
Suspense                                             22             7              -            -                -             -             -             -            -
Total Liabilities                             741           944         1,454         4,230            4,917         5,512         5,543         5,697        5,893
AKZIOS
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                  1.58          1.41         1.6           1.9              2.4           2.5           2 5          2.5            2.6
Current Assets less Inventory/
Current Liabilities                               1.17         1.1           1.2           1.4              1.6           1.7          1.8           1.8           1.9
Debt/Equity                                        16/84         29/71        52/48         18/82           26/74          33/67         32/68        32/68         32/68
Note:       1976-1981 figures are in constant pesos   of mid-1976 and include the results of 1975 revaluation of fixed assets.
Source: ENFE and mission estimates.
March 1977



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Cash Flow - 1973 to 1975 Actual; 1976 Tentative; 1977 - 1981 Forecast
(in $b million)
Total
1973      1974       1975            1976            1977       1978       1979       1980       1981        1977x1981
----------Actual-----             (Tentative)        ------------------Forecast-----------_-------
Funds Required
Investment - Local                             2.0       37.9       31.5           80.1            34.8      133.0      140.6    158.6         108.3          575.3
- Foreign                         16.5      152.0       24.5          211.5           585.0      628.7      113.0    168.1         210.8       1,705.6
Total               18.5      189.9       56.0          291.6           619.8      761.7      253.6    326.7         319.1       2,280.9
Debt Service - Interest                        6.2        6.3       11.4           23.1            40.3       61.0       93.3    103,0         109.3         406,9
- Amaortization                 20.3       20.4       76.5           86.5            56.9       37.2       32.6      34.0         36.0         196.7
Total               26.5       26.7       87.9          109.6            97.2       98.2      125.9    137.0         145.3          603.6
Increase/(decrease) in Working
Capital, excluding cash                      9.0      (17.4)      59.0           28.5            (1.0)       5.0       (7.0)    (2.0)          3.0           (2.0)
Retirement Benefits by Government              6.7        7.4       23.9            9.0               -          -          -        -             -             -
Total               60.7      206.6      226.8          438.7           716.0      864.9      372.5    461.7         467.4        2,882.5
Funds Available
ENFE's net internally generated funds
including depreciation                     (40.6)    (56.5)    116.8            150.5           160.7      176.6      201.4    223.1         244.8        1;006.6
Loans - IDA Credit                             -        152.0        8.0            -                -          -          -         -            -
- IBRD Loan 1121-B0                      -          -        16.5           211.5           328.6        -          -       - _                        328.6
- IBRD pvo,posed loan                    -         _-                         -             110.2      385.6       44.6      11.4          -           551.8
- other                 -                          -         55.0                           146.2      243.1       68.4    156.7         210.8         825.2
Total                -        152.0       79.5          211.5           585.0      628.7       113.0    168.1         210.8       1,705.6
Government contribution
84.8      127.2      31.5            80.1             _         46.3       58.1      71.5         13.8         189.7
UNDP grants                                   16.5        -          -              -                -          -          -         -            -             -
Total               60.7      222.7      227.8          442.1           745.7      851.6      372.5    462.7         469.4        2,901.9
Cash at beginning of year                     11.0       11.0       27.0           28.0             31.4       53.3       40.0     40.0          41.0         205.7
Cash at end of year                           11.0       27.0       28.0           31.4             53.3      40.0        40.0     41.0          43.0         217.3
Increase/(decrease) in cash                    -         16.0        1.0            3.4            29.7       (13.3)       -         1.0          2.0          19.4
/ For 1977 and 1978 the financing has been arranged for $b 389.1 million and for 1979-1981 financing has to be arranged for $b436.1 million
from international financing agencies, including IBRD.
Note:  -  Figures for 1977-1981 are in constant pesos of mid-1976.  If consideration is given to the time lag for tariff increases due to
cost increases, the internal cash generation may be slightly less and has to be met by Government contribution.
- Foreign Exchange Rate is $b 20.0 - US$1.0
Source:   ENFE and mission estimate.
March 1977



ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
International Financing in the Transport Sector
Railroads                                                              (US$ in million)
1966       Japan      Purchase of rolling stock                               10.00
1966       Germany   Purchase of rolling stock                                 1.10
1972       IDA        First Railway Project:  346-BO                           8.00
1975       IBRD       Second Railway Project:  1121-BO                        28.70
1975       Brazil    Study of Sta. Cruz-Cochabamba line                        6.10
1975       Brazil    Bilateral financing for purchase of
17 diesel locomotives                                  7.70
1976       Japan      Bilateral financing for purchases of
16 diesel locomotives                                 12.50
1977       IBRD       Proposed Third Railway Project                          35.00
Highways
1962-62    USAID      Maintenance                                              2.03
1962-67    USAID      Construction Projects 3 and 7                            7.85
1964-66    USAID      Construction El Alto-KmlO Oruro                          0.83
1965-67    USAID      Construction Alcohe-Tipuani                              0.65
1966-67    USAID      Maintenance Equipment                                    5.00
1966-69    USAID      Various Feasibility Studies                              5.93
1966-69    USAID      Reconstruction Cochabamba-Sta. Cruz                      1.65
1966-71    USAID      Planning and Construction El Alto-Oruro                  9.01
1967       USAID      Various Access Roads                                     0.18
1967-72    USAID      Projects 1 and 4                                        46.80
1968       USAID      Warehouses for Road Equipment                            0.03
1968-69    USAID      Defenses Pirai and Yapacani Rivers                       0.68
1968-72    USAID      Reconstruction Cochabamba-Sta. Cruz                      1.50
1969-70    USAID      Construction Pilcomayo Bridge                            0.28
1969-72    USAID      Planning and Construction Yapacani Rio Vibora            2.40
1976-79    USAID      Sta. Cruz Northern Access                                4.80
1977-80    USAID      Feeder Roads Program                                     8.50
1971-73    IDB        Project Oruro-Quillacollo                                0.53
1972-77    IDB        Improvement of Cities-Access Roads                      10.00
1973-74    IDB        Planning La Paz-Pto. Salinas and Branches                1.70
1973-76    IDB        Construction La Paz-El Alto Expressway                  13.70
1975-76    IDB        Planning Chimore-Yapacani                                0.92
1975-      IDB        Construction Quillacollo-Confital                       35.00
1976-      IDB        Construction La Paz-Cotapata and Bridges                45.00
1973-74    Brazil    Construction Equipment for Bella Vista San Borja          5.00
1974-      Brazil    Maintenance Equipment                                    12.00
1976-      Japan      Construction Equipment for Pto. Salinas-San Borja   12.12
1974-76    C.A.F.    Planning Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado                         0.75
1976-77    C.A.F.    Planning Rio Seco-Desaguadero                             0.40
1977-78    Brazil    Asphalt Plants                                           10.00
Pipelines
1971       IBRD                                                               23.25
N. Y. State P. Retirement Fund                                    14.00
IDB                                                               19.00
Gulf                                                                1.40
Aviation.!/
1964-68    USAID      Investment in El-Alto Airport                            4.50
1968       USAID      Airport rehabilitation and technical assistance
to LAB                                                 2.80
1977       iBRD       Proposed first aviation project                         25.00
1/ This does not include partial financing for aircraft by US Export Import Bank.
January 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary and' Conclusions of Transport Sector Report
Bank Group Operations in the Transport Sector
1.        The Bank's first involvement in Bolivia's Transport Sector was as
executing agency for a UNDP-financed National Transport Survey (1967); this
was followed by the financing of a Pipeline Project (Loan 655-BO, September
1971, US$23 million) and two Railway Projects (IDA Credit 346-BO, November
1972, US$8 million, and Loan 1121-BO, June 1975, US$32 million). At present,
the Bank is appraising a Third Railway Project (proposed loan of US$35 mil-
lion), which would include funds for updating the National Transport Survey
and for subsequent technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination, as well as an Aviation Development Project (proposed loan of
US$25 million). To date, there has been no Bank involvement in the highway
sector.
Sector Knowledge
2.        The Bank's knowledge of railways and aviation is good and that of
pipelines is reasonable. There is a gap in knowledge regarding the overall
traffic demand as well as the ability of highways and waterways to meet the
expected demand. The overall knowledge, therefore, is not sufficient to estab-
lish the future role that each mode should play or to provide a base for the
formulation of a comprehensive transportation policy.
The Transport Sector
3.        Bolivia, as a land-locked country with adverse geography and climate
and a scattered population, presents serious resource allocation problems with
respect to the role of transport in its development. Its major commodities,
oil and gas, are transported fairly efficiently by pipelines, but its other
foreign exchange earning commodities must rely on facilities with high invest-
ment and high maintenance costs. In 1974, total freight movements in Bolivia
amounted to about 5.5 billion ton-km. Of this total, 75% was carried by pipe-
lines, 16.3% by road, 7.0% by rail, 1.1% by waterways, and 0.6% by air.
4.        Early development of the Bolivian transport network was based on
the construction of railways to serve the needs of foreign trade and the mining
sector in particular. The road network was developed later to meet the needs
of internal communication and to fill the gaps left by the railway. Air trans-
portation, which has grown rapidly in the last 10 years, serves long-distance
passenger traffic and gives access to extensive isolated areas. The two prin-
cipal river routes in Bolivia, the Ichilo-Mlamore and the Beni, are a means of
supplying the vast areas in the north and northeast, especially for heavy and
non-perishable goods, and Lake Titicaca serves as a navigable link with the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
southern Peru railway and the Pacific port of Matarani. Pipelines is the
latest mode that became developed.
Transport Modes
5.        By far the most important individual transport mode in Bolivia is
the pipeline, which accounts for a very high share (75%) of freight transport
(in ton-km). This reflects both the importance of the petroleum industry and
the relatively low level of development of the rest of the economy. The state
oil company operates 2,462 km of oil pipelines and 754 km of gas pipelines.
Compared with this system, the road network of about 38,000 km is much larger,
but only 1,166 km are paved and 6,559 km have gravel surface. The railway
system is about 3,400 km long, and the river system measures about 1,600 km.
The national airline, LAB, has a route network of about 27,800 km, of which
11,000 km are within Bolivia.
6.        Most of the country is accessible by only one transport mode; for
large areas of the country, access is available only at high transport cost
or with poor service, or both. Topography and the quality of the transport
infrastructure place serious restrictions on the vehicles that can be used,
i.e., 5-6 ton trucks on most roads, 25-40 ton barges on the rivers, turbopro-
peller aircraft of 5 tons payload at most airports and relatively short trains.
Although improvements, particularly for railways and aviation, are being made,
many of the vehicles (e.g., trucks, barges and aircraft) have not been main-
tained properly and are clearly overaged. Bolivia has about 17,500 trucks
with a carrying capacity of 88,000 tons. The river barges have a total
capacity of some 3,000 tons; 50 aircraft, about 300 tons; and 1,950 railway
wagons, about 43,000 tons. These numbers are only roughly indicative, due to
the number of vehicles out of service, e.g., about 40% for the railway wagons
and a similar, but less serious, situation for both aircraft and barges.
Other factors are the speed of the vehicles (25-30 km/hour for trucks) and the
amount of idle time since vehicles are used for storage. These differences
would have to be taken into account in any estimate of productivity by trans-
port mode. Passenger traffic is served by some 50,000 light vehicles, 4,000
buses, eight aircraft in scheduled air services, 188 railway passenger cars
and hydrofoils on Lake Titicaca.
7.        Traffic data are incomplete, particularly for intercity road trans-
port. Apart from the specialized role of pipeline transport, road transport
accounts for 65% of the remaining transport effort as compared to 28% for the
railways and small contributions by river, lake and air transport (about 2%
each). Intercity passenger transport by railway in 1975 totalled about 832,000
passengers for the Western System and 317,000 passengers for the Eastern
System; this may be compared to 463,000 domestic air passengers. Intercity
road transport is probably more important than other modes of transport, but
very uncertain in view of the large number of unaccounted-for travellers by
truck.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        A common major problem for all transport modes (except possibly
lake) is the lack of supporting infrastructure coupled with poor maintenance
of existing infrastructure. This is a serious matter since it limits the
use of larger, more economical vehicles and decreases average utilization.
Transport Planning and Coordination
9.        The Ministry of Transport, Communication and Civil Aviation (MTCCA)
is responsible for formulating, directing and executing policy. The invest-
ment proposals of MTCCA are reviewed by the National Economic and Planning
Council (CONEPLAN) to determine the overall level of investment in light of
national priorities. At present, only four of the five transport modes are
fully under the jurisdiction of MTCCA: highways, railways, aviation and
waterways. Pipelines are under the jurisdiction of Yacimientos Petroliferos
Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB), which, in turn, reports to the Ministry of Energy
and Hydrocarbons.
10.       A National Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by UNDP, was com-
pleted in 1969, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. It proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the following ten years,
and those projects which were justified in the Survey have mostly been started
or are included in the 1976-1980 National Development Plan. One of the
Survey's main recommendations was that a Directorate of Planning and Coordi-
nation (DPC) should be created. The Directorate was created and, for a time,
was attached to the Ministry of Coordination and Planning, but is now in
MTCCA. As a means of achieving better planning and coordination, the Bank, in
1972, assisted in the preparation of terms of reference for a UNDP-financed
technical assistance program to strengthen this Directorate.
11.       This UNDP-financed program of technical assistance to the Direc-
torate of Planning and Coordination, with ECLA acting as executing agency,
was begun and cancelled in 1976, due to lack of funds, after only partial
implementation.
12.       The gap in knowledge regarding transport facilities and equipment,
their condition, age and ability to meet expected demands is serious, espe-
cially for highways and waterways. Although many individual project studies
have been undertaken, there has been no real coordination among them. Accord-
ingly, the Government has decided that DPC, with the help of consultants,
should update the National Transport Survey. The main objectives of this
National Transport Survey would be to:
(a) analyze and project the transport demand in relation to
planned development of the economy;
(b) review existing capacity and operations;



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) determine the role of each mode in relation to the demand;
(d) recommend policies and operational improvements designed to
make best use of existing and future capacities;
(e) prepare a program of investments necessary to improve and
expand capacities to meet projected demands;
(f) recommend measures for the strengthening of DPC under MTCCA
and develop a new organization and staffing plan for it;
(g) ensure that a maximum amount of working knowledge is imparted
to the counterpart personnel, and assure that the organization
of traffic counts and other data collection exercises will be
undertaken in such a way that they can most easily be incor-
porated in the future routine work; and
(h) indicate the method of implementation for the major policy
recommendations to be made under the Transport Survey that might
serve as terms of reference for a subsequent two-year technical
assistance to DPC.
Export-Import Transport
13.       Bolivia relies heavily on exports and imports for the development
of its economy. The main exports are minerals via Peru and Chile, crude oil
to Argentina and Chile, gas to Argentina, and agricultural commodities, espe-
cially cotton and wood, to Argentina and Brazil. Recently, major sugar exports
to Chile also took place. Imports are mainly wheat and flour from Argentina
and, via Peru and Chile, iron and steel, mechanical equipment, vehicles and
other durable goods.
14.       The main carrier (except pipelines) is the railway, which, in 1975,
carried 350,000 tons of imports and 153,000 tons of exports by the western
network (mainly through Arica and Antofagasta) compared to imports of 167,700
tons and exports of 89,600 tons by the eastern network.
15.       External transport facilities assume special importance in the
economy of the nation since most imports and the exports of high-bulk ores
and certain farm commodities depend on efficient, low-cost transportation and,
especially, on access to the Pacific ports of Antofagasta, Arica and Matarani.
Another related problem is that Bolivia's potentially most significant export
markets in South America--represented by such cities as Lima, Santiago, Buenos
Aires, Asuncion, Montevideo, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro--are located at
great distances from La Paz, ranging from 1,100 to 2,500 km by air and even
farther by overland and river routes.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Sector Objectives and Strategy
16.       The Government's present Five-Year Plan (1976-1980) includes, as
major goals, the expansion of the main export sectors--hydrocarbons and
minerals and agriculture and agro-industries--in order to break the foreign
exchange constraint to development. The plan recognizes that infrastructure
such as transport and communications is basic to the country's development
and is given high priority. The latest Economic Memorandum on Bolivia (March
23, 1977) concurs with this view. The targets for transport call for invest-
ments in projects already started of about US$475 million, excluding pipelines:
56% for highways, 23% for railways, and 21% for aviation. Some 62% of these
investments are in foreign exchange. In addition to these projects already
under way, the Government has under study some US$439 million in possible
projects. The Five-Year Plan does not include capital investments for water-
ways, which are relatively minor.
17.       From the Five-Year Investment Plan (1976-1980), it appears that the
Government's major objectives for the Transport Sector are:
(a) Roads: extension of the road network;
(b) Railroads: rehabilitation and modernization of the National
Railroad System to allow more efficient operation and to
continue its financial viability; and
(c) Air Transport: improvement and construction of airport
facilities and improvement of the air navigation system to
provide all-weather availability of most airports.
18.       The pipeline subsector has proposed new investments for 1976-1980
of some US$799 million, which would extend the pipeline network and increase
throughput over existing lines.
19.       The Five-Year Plan addresses itself primarily to new construction
with no added emphasis being given to rehabilitation and maintenance of the
existing network (para. 20), particularly in the road subsector. Since the
transportation investments are large, and may even be excessive, continued
sector planning and coordination are required to ensure that the projects
under study are justified in their overall content and are well-timed. Since
even the transport investments already committed are ambitious, it is likely
that most of these projects under study cannot be carried out in the 1976-1980
period. In considering the development needs of the country, it should be
recognized, however, that not all the perceived investments will necessarily
be economically justified, but each should be a least-cost solution. In
particular, duplication of services, i.e., parallel road and rail lines,
should be avoided.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Bank Group Contribution
20.       The Transport Sector Mission identified several maintenance and
investment requirements '(particularly for rehabilitation) in the Bolivian
transport sector; it has also pointed out the need for updating the National
Transport Survey and for strengthening the Directorate of Planning and Coordi-
nation under MTCCA. The Bank's main objective is to assist in high priority
infrastructure projects and to guide in the selection of a future investment
program as yet only partly defined, i.e., projects und.wr study estimated to
cost US$439 million. This two-part objective would not only deal with overall
transport coordination, but to be effective, would also approach, at the same
time, the most important of the individual transport modes. The Bank's
previous involvement with railways and pipelines will now be broadened by
projects in aviation and, possibly, in roads. A focus will be put on the
selection of projects meeting the development strategy, rehabilitation and
maintenance of the present system with emphasis on the Government-provided
infrastructure and upgrading of managerial capability to perform these tasks.
21.       The Bank's immediate measures to assist the Government in reaching
these objectives in the transport sector should be the provision for financing
the foreign exchange component of:
(a) the updating of the National Transport Survey and subsequent
technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination under the proposed Third Railway Project (para.
21 (c)) at an estimated cost of US$1.5 million equivalent;
(b) the technical assistance for highway maintenance funded under
the proposed Third Railway Project (para 21 (c)) at an estimated
cost of US$0.5 million equivalent (para. 22);
(c) investments included in ENFE's Five-Year Investment Plan
(1977-1981) which are to be committed in 1977 and 1978, and
the continuation of the ongoing program of technical assis-
tance to ENFE with an estimated cost of US$32.9 million
equivalent also in the proposed Third Railway Project;
(d) assistance to AASANA for airport construction; provision of
technical assistance to AASANA; electronic equipment; construction
equipment for runway maintenance; design of works at Cochabamba.
The estimated total cost is US$39.5 million, with a Bank contribu-
tion of US$25.0 million equivalent in the proposed airfields project.
22.       During discussions with the Transport Sector Mission, the Government
authorities requested Bank assistance in the field of highway maintenance.
The proposed initial project is a Pilot Project in three separate districts
(La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) of the Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC).
April 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Brief Description of Railway Property
A.   Track and Structures
1.        The 1.0 m gauge prevails throughout the Western and Eastern Systems
of ENFE; rails vary in weight from 25 to 37 kg/meter. Due to the light
traffic characteristics of ENFE, they are generally in reasonable condition,
with three exceptions: (a) a 68-km section close to Robore, on the Eastern
System, where rails are of a variety of weights and profiles, all underweight;
(b) a 172-km section close to Uyuni where rails have been corroded by the
salinity of the earth; and (c) a 92-km section between Viacha and Charana,
where the 25 kg rails are underweight for the axle loads of the new diesel
locomotives. An extensive program of rail welding in lengths of 36 and 40 m
for the rest of the system, excluding the above three sections, now under way,
should extend the life of the rails and reduce maintenance costs.
2.        Sleepers are of wood, except for about 70 km between Oruro and
Viacha, where they are of steel. In the last three or four years, a great
effort has been made by ENFE to replace the high percentage of bad wooden
sleepers (about 70%); initial supply difficulties have been overcome, and an
adequate supply is now moving on site in both regions. However, due to the
high cost of the traditional quebracho colorado trees, to the great distance
of the sources of this variety, and to the transport difficulties during the
rainy season, the loan includes a provision for the purchase of a concrete tie
manufacturing plant, to be installed on the Western System. In order to use
other varieties available close to the line on the Eastern System, the invest-
ment plan provides for the purchase of a wood tie treatment plant.
3.        On the Western System, the first 60 km of rehabilitated track,
including ballast, were completed by the end of 1976, and on the Eastern
System, about 25 km were completed. The main bottleneck to track rehabil-
itation is still ballast production. However, modern crushing equipment
purchased under Loan 1121-BO, plus equipment to be purchased under the pres-
ent loan, will supply all the ballast that will be required. The bridges
purchased under the IDA Credit and the 1121-BO Loan for the Uyuni-Ollague
line have arrived and are being put in place as a part of the project.
4.        On the Oruro-Cochabamba line, protection work of the line against
floods and some local elevation of the track, all performed by the maintenance
crews, have allowed traffic throughout the 1976 and the early 1977 rainy
seasons with a minimum of interruptions. Plans for relocation of sections of
the line have been removed by ENFE from the Investment Plan.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The training of track crews and engineers has continued under the
guidance of two experts supplied by the consultants. Given an adequate
supply of ballast and other materials, these crews are now able to rehab-
ilitate about 400 m of track per day, a commendable performance.
6.        Train control is by the token or by the line order systems, which
are adequate for the anticipated level of traffic for the next years.
7.        A great improvement is now under way in the telecommunications
sector. A number of new radiophones have been installed and are operating
at main points. The entire wiring system is being rehabilitated and new
equipment installed under Loan 1121-BO. The present loan will finance the
purchase of equipment to improve and expand the multiplex system.
B.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
8.        As of December 31, 1976, the composition of the motive power fleet
was as follows: one 2,000 HP Fiat and twenty 1,850 HP Hitachi-Mitsubishi--
BoBoBo--diesel electric mainline locomotives, five 1,000 HP Hitachi-Mitsubishi
diesel hydraulic mainline locomotives, four 550 HP Hitachi-Mitsubishi diesel
hydraulic shunters and 124 steam locomotives of various types and power.
Steam locomotives--only about 40 are daily in service--will be scrapped
with the full dieselization of the fleet expected in 1979 with the arrival of
33 new diesel locomotives--twenty-four 2,000 HP and nine 1,000 HP. Suppliers'
credits have been secured, but ENFE will repay the entire amount through its
internally generated cash. Except for the 2,000 HP DE Fiat locomotive, all
the present diesel locomotives acquired in 1968 were from Japan, while 10
railcar sets--ferrobuses--were acquired from Germany in the same year. Two
diesel trainsets consisting of four elements each, which were purchased in
1968 from Japan, because of their low reliability and high maintenance costs
have been converted into coaches in the Uyuni workshop and are now used in the
international trains.
9.        Diesel locomotives and railcars were supplied in 1968-1969 without an
adequate conversion of steam locomotive shops into diesel shops. This lack
of shop facilities, the scarcity of skilled personnel in diesel repair and the
long lead times of spare parts and equipment financed with the first IDA
Credit 346-BO caused a breakdown of the motive power fleet in 1973-74. Only
at the end of 1974 with the first arrival of spares and equipment and the
support of the technical assistance, did the situation change. The diesel
electric locomotives achieved an average availability of 80% in 1976, and it
is expected that this good performance will be maintained in the future.
10.       The total number of freight cars as of December 31, 1975 was 1,948,
of which 1,020 have been rehabilitated and 728 will be scrapped starting from
the latter part of 1977. In 1975, ENFE used an average of 800 (net) foreign
freight cars per day in Bolivia because of the shortage of its own fleet.
However, this shortage will be reduced when 300 freight cars, purchased
through Loan 1121-BO, arrive in Bolivia in 1977, as well as another 301 cars
to be purchased through the proposed loan. The balance of about 200 cars
will be rented.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       The total passenger cars as of December 31, 1975 were 188, of which
only one-third are in service because some are scheduled for rehabilitation
and some for scrap due to old age (60 years old). So far, 50 cars, which
would have a useful life of 5-15 years, have been rehabilitated. In 1977,
23 steel-bodied passenger cars, purchased from Chile through Loan 1121-BO,
will arrive in Bolivia.
C.   Workshops
12.       The complete dieselization of ENFE's fleet requires the conversion
and modernization of the Viacha workshop for the western region and of the
Guaracachi workshop for the eastern region, the upgrading of the Oruro shop
as a diesel depot, and the discontinuance of workshop operations at Tupiza,
Sucre, and Cochabamba where steam locomotives still are repaired. The con-
version and modernization of Viacha and Guaracachi is in course. The conver-
sion to diesel sheds for Tupiza, Sucre and Cochabamba will be completed when
the steam locomotives are retired from operations.
April 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
New and Uneconomic Lines
A.   New Lines
Under Construction                                           -
1.        Under a 1967 agreement between the Governments of Argentina and
Bolivia, a Joint Commission was formed in Santa Cruz to design and build
a railway line extending north from Santa Cruz toward Rio Mamore, with a
possible extension to Trinidad. The first 104-km section to Santa Rosa is
ready, and the second 100-km section from Santa Rosa to Rio Yapacani will be
ready in a few months. Although the construction is below ENFE standards,
some traffic is taking place on the first section, mostly under the pressure
of the demand for passenger transportation, for carrying out construction work
and for exporting the production of this rich agricultural zone. A proper
economic study of the region's potential and of its present development has
never been made and is certainly long overdue to establish the economic feasi-
bility of the railway.
2.        In mid-1976, the Governments of Argentina and Bolivia decided to
suspend the activities of the Joint Commission as soon as construction of the
line reached Rio Yapacani. Any construction beyond Rio Yapacani would have to
be preceded by economic and technical studies performed by consultaffts and would
have to be financed by international financing agencies. These decisions are in
agreement with the position the Bank has maintained since the time it granted
the first IDA Credit.
3.        In accordance with its past position, it was agreed during negotia-
tions that ENFE will continue to keep the accounts of the operations on this
line separately, and the Government will reimburse any losses incurred, until
such time as the line becomes viable.
Proposed
4.        The linking of the Eastern and Western Systems, within Bolivian
territory, has been a long-time Bolivian aspiration. Furthermore, the exis-
tence of a through railway connection from Santos in Brazil to Arica in Chile
through Bolivia, without the present detour of 600 km through Argentina, has
been a long-time aspiration of Brazil. A feasibility study, being carried out
under a Brazilian grant, is expected to be completed by mid 1977. ENFE has
agreed to make a copy of this study available to the Bank for its review and
comments. During negotiations, it was agreed that investments for the inter-
connection will be made only after an adequate study demonstrating the econ-
omic justification is carried out and the Bank has been given the opportunity
to comment on it.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.   Uneconomic Lines
1.        As per Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement (Credit 346-BO), the
situation on uneconomic lines is as follows:
Sucre-Tarabuco Line
2.        This line is closed.
Cochabamba-Aiquile Line
3.        The Project Agreement requires the closure of this railway line if
the highway between Cochabamba and Aiquile is a more economic alternative.
The highway is not really parallel to the railway track and does not serve the
same business community as the railway. There is a mine (Quioma mine) located
on this railway line near Chaguarani, about 196 km from Cochabamba. This mine
has increased its production from 250 tons to 700 tons a month and, by mid-
1978, expects to increase to 2,000 tons. There is no other mode of transport
available for this mine and for the people who live there. Therefore, ENFE
is presently operating a mixed train service twice a week in each direction
on a trial basis for one year. At the end of one year, ENFE will review and
assess the profitability of this line. At the same time, the Government is
also studying this line, particularly in conjunction with the East and West
rail link study, and the results are expected to be out by mid-1977.
April 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Main Items of the 1977-1981 Investment Plan
A.   Way and Works
A 60% share of the Investment Plan is reserved for Way and Works.
This may seem high, but three facts should be borne in mind: (a) in previous
projects, priority had been given to rolling stock; (b) if the total of the
three projects is considered, the above percentage becomes 45%; and (c) the
general title "Way and Works" includes a substantial investment in marshal-
ling yards and telecommunications. The track rehabilitation program for
1977-1981 is:
Western System                    Total      1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
(km)
Uyuni-Ollague         -        87         -      -       -      -       87
Viacha-Uyuni          -       408         95    100    100    100       13
Viacha-Charana        -       210         -      -      103     54      53
La Paz-Viacha         -        24         24     -       -      -       -
Oruro-Cochabamba )
Rio Mulato-Potosi)   -        200         -      51      51     50      48
Villazon-Uyuni )
Sub total               929        119    151    254    204    201
Eastern System
Santa Cruz-Corumba   -        552        109    135    154    154       -
Total                 1,481        228    286    408    358    201
The above program may appear ambitious, but ENFE, with the help of the consul-
tants and the contractors, will be able to accomplish it.
Investment in this category contains:
(i) Track Rehabilitation
This item includes basic track materials and associated work
necessary to rehabilitate and upgrade the track to a level
compatible with the implementation of periodic maintenance
schemes. It includes ties, fastenings, fish plates, turnouts,
and rails.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
The details per section of lines are as follows:
La Paz-Viacha        - 24 km in 1977 and 1978:  substitution of ties,
ballasting and welding of rails.
Viacha-Uyuni         - 408 km (195 km in 1977 and 1978):  substitution
of rails, turnouts, fishplates, fastenings,
ballasting and welding of rails.
Oruro - Cochabamba)   200 km (51 km in 1978):  substitution of
Rio Mulato-Potosi ) - ties, fishplates, fastenings, ballasting
Villazon-Uyuni    )   and welding of rails.
Uyuni-Ollague )      - 297 km (in 1979 to 1981):
Viacha-Charana)        substitution of ties, fishplates, fastenings,
turnouts and rails for 119 km of track.
Santa Cruz-Corumba  - 552 km (244 km in 1977 and 1978):  substitution
of ties, ballasting and welding of rails.
(ii) Equipment for Ballasting
In order to alleviate the shortage of ballast, which is badly
delaying the track rehabilitation program, the Investment Plan
provides for the purchase of one large crushing plant and one
medium plant. It also provides for 64 ballast cars (14 for the
west and 30 for the eastern region to be purchased in 1977-1978).
(iii) Tools and Equipment
This item includes small track materials, miscellaneous hand
tools, small mechanized tools, measuring devices, one tamping
machine (in 1977), one concrete tie manufacturing plant (in 1977)
and one wood tie treatment plant (in 1979) and gang trollies for
track crew (in 1977 and 1980).
(iv) Structure Reinforcement
36 bridges were purchased under the first two projects to re-
place old ones on the Uyuni-Ollague line. The Investment Plan
contains a provision for the erection of these bridges in 1977
and 1978.
(v) Reconstruction of Earthfills and Protection Works
This item includes equipment and labor to continue improving
the defenses of the Oruro-Cochabamba line against floods;
of improvements to the platform; and some spare parts for the
equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(vi) Construction of "Variantes"
This item includes the construction of four short relocations
(total length 9-km) on the Oruro-Villazon line, needed to
eliminate dangerous curves, to avoid landslides and river
erosion, and to avoid the necessity of subdividing trains on
short ramps.
(vii)  Improvement of RR Installations
This item provides for the remodelling and enlargement of new
marshalling yards and stations at Santa Cruz and Oruro, and
for the studies required.
(viii)  Telecommunications
Under this item, the existing multiplex system will be
modernized and enlarged (in 1977 and 1978).
B.   Acquisition of Rolling Stock (13% of total expenditure)
This item includes provision for:
- 545 freight cars
- 4 passenger cars
- spare parts
(i) Freight Cars
Out of the present fleet of 1948 freight cars, 1,020 are being
rehabilitated, 300 are new or in good condition, another 300
financed with Loan 1121-BO are expected early in 1977 and 545
are to be purchased to cope with the 1981 traffic forecast
requiring 2,165 freight cars. The newly acquired stock is
expected to enter into service as follows:
1977   1978  1979  1980  1981   Total
Freight cars  West   200 /1        -    -    181    -    181 /2 1
East   100 /1    301    -       63    -    364/2]
Total                   - /2    301    -    244    -    545
/1 Financed with Loan 1121-BO.
/2 Excluding freight cars financed with Loan 1121-BO.
ENFE is expected to scrap 728 freight cars starting from 1977.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(ii) Passenger Cars
Out of an inventory of 188 passenger cars, only 60 are in opera-
tion; 50 of them were rehabilitated in the 1972-1975 period
in spite of their age (about 60 years old) and their mixed timber-
steel structure. Their rehabilitation was decided taking into
consideration the scarcity of funds, the low cost of local manpower
and material required (mostly timber and hardware) and the useful
life extension of the passenger cars (from 5 to 15 years). Financed
with Loan 1121-BO, 23 passenger cars are expected to enter service in
1977 (15 are new and 8 second-hand). Four passenger cars are in the
Investment Plan to gradually replace the rehabilitated cars mainly to
increase safety, to decrease the maintenance costs and to take full
advantage of higher speed made possible by the rehabilitation of the
track. The four cars to be acquired are expected to enter into the
service in 1980.
(iii) Acquisition of Equipment Component and Spare Parts
(2% of Total Expenditure)
This item includes spare parts for the overhaul backlog of loco-
motives now in operation and for rehabilitation of: (a) two canni-
balized DE locomotives, three DH shunters, one mainline DH loco-
motive and (b) 138 freight cars. It also includes main components--
subassemblies--for diesel locomotives and railcars.
C.   Workshop Modernization (2% of total expenditure)
This item includes the purchase of facilities and equipment that
have not been bought with previous loans for repair and maintenance
of locomotives and rolling stock at the following workshops:
- Viacha for diesel and railcars on the Western System.
- Oruro depot for diesel and railcars on the Western System.
- Uyuni and Robore for passenger and freight cars on the
Western and Eastern Systems, respectively.
- Guaracachi for diesel locomotives and railcars on the
Eastern System.
- Quijarro and Yacuiba sheds for diesel locomotives and
railcars on the Eastern System.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
D.   Technical Assistance (3% of total expenditure)
In the 1977-1978 project, this item provides for a program of tech-
nical assistance to ENFE, mostly at the operational level, to continue the
implementation of the ongoing technical and financial rehabilitation, and to
continue the training of ENFE engineers and technicians of all levels in
modern methods of railway operations and management. Technical assistance
will be continued beyond the project period, but its scope should be reviewed
by the Bank.
April 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Scope of Technical Assistance Services to ENFE (July 1977-May 1979)
Technical assistance to ENFE started in 1969 and, under UNDP grants,
continued until September 30, 1975, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency.
After this date; technical assistance was financed partly by Loan 1121-BO
(foreign currency component) and partly by ENFE (local currency component).
During the first years, the efforts of the technical assistance program were
directed mostly at improving ENFE's organization and administration.
However, after the goods, purchased under the IDA Credit, started
to arrive in the last quarter of 1974, the weight of the technical assistance
effort shifted from reorganization and management to operations. Several
operational experts went to Bolivia to work on the track, in the workshops,
and in the dispatching offices. This new trend became even more accentuated
after 1974, and the project intends to continue the trend, which is giving
excellent results.
The services to be provided by the consultants can be summarized
as follows:
1.   Track Maintenance and Improvement
To assist ENFE in organizing and carrying out the stepped-up track
rehabilitation program, through proper work procedures in the field, and
efficient utilization of all the equipment, machines and tools purchased under
the preceding and the present loans; to pursue the training of all field
crews, track inspectors and engineers; and to review existing work programs
and adapt them to the changing necessities of ENFE, as work progresses and
conditions vary.
2.   Maintenance of Motive Power and Rolling Stock
(a) Motive Power: to assist ENFE, at Viacha and at Guaracachi,
(i) in the training of personnel in the maintenance and repair
of diesel locomotives and ferrobuses; (ii) in the installation
of new facilities and equipments needed in view of the fleet's
full dieselization; (iii) in establishing improved work proce-
dures and quality standards. The consultants will also assist
ENFE, at Viacha, in starting the general overhaul (24,000 hours)
of the diesel electric locomotives; this will be possible because
of the arrival of spare parts and of the advanced stage of modern-
ization of the Viacha workshop. The two experts, who have pro-
vided very successful assistance to date, will continue in
1977 and 1978.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) Rolling Stock: to assist the Robore and Uyuni workshops in
the repair of freight and passenger cars, through the chain-
type system introduced at Uyuni by the rolling stock expert,
and which has resulted in the reduction of total man-hours
needed to repair cars and of the downtime of cars in the shop;
to assist in the reorganization of control methods and of minor
maintenance procedures for rolling stock in stations and yards.
3.   Operations
To assist in the introduction of a Transport Plan in the eastern
region, in 1977, in order to obtain the best utilization of the new diesel
fleet, which will arrive in 1977 and 1978, and of the new rolling stock. The
two experts who successfully introduced the Transport Plan in the western
region will return in 1977 and 1978 to introduce the Plan in the eastern
region.
4.   Tariffs and Commercial Policy
To review the adequacy of the existing tariff structure and to train
ENFE staff in commercial areas.
5.   Economics
To update and prepare the traffic forecast, investment plan and
economic evaluation for the 1979-1983 period. Special consideration should be
given to an incremental analysis for passenger traffic, which has to be carried
out on a route-by-route basis.
6.   Accounting and Costing
To ensure that the newly established accounting system is working
satisfactorily and to help the accounting staff in preparing annual budgets.
To update and further improve railway costing and prepare the financial forecast
for 1979-1983.
7.   Training
To systematically organize courses and services to be given or
conducted by ENFE's engineers and technicians, by the consultants, or by
teachers in Bolivia or abroad; to establish all the pedagogical material
needed for the courses; and to give pedagogical training to instructors
coming from the ranks of ENFE.
April 1977



B o L I V I A
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED BAR CHART
1 9 7 7         -19 78                                                        1 9 79                Total
Position                     J   A   S   0   N    D   J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   0   N    D   J   F   M   A   M   J   Man/Months
Supervision                                                                                                                                     1.0
Head of Team r                                                                                                                                 21.0
Track Rehabilitation
Eastern Region  1                                                                                                                           22.0
"         2to  2                                                                                                                      22.0
Western Region  1             ==                                                -     -    =                                                 22.0
"           2          -  -    --                                                              -   -    -   -   -22.0
Shop Expert - Viacha-Oruro          _  _         _         _            _            _                  _                                      16.0
Shop Expert - Guaracachi                                                                                                                        5.0
Diesel Traction Instructor                                                                                                                     11.0
Shop Expert                         - - - - - - - - -
Freight Passenger Cars                                                                                                                        9.0
Operations                                                                   _ _ -   -  -  -  _  -   -   - _                                   16.0
Economist                                                                                                                                       5.0
Accounting                                                                                                                                      3.0
Training                            ----12.0
Costs - Tariffs                                                                                                                                 3.0
Commercial Policy                                     _T                                                                                        9.0
Dtal     I 199
January 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Summarized Terms of Reference - National Transport Survey
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        A National Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by UNDP, was
completed in 1969, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. It proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the following ten years.
One of its main recommendations was that a Directorate of Planning and Coor-
dination (DPC) should be created. The Directorate was created and, for a time,
was attached to the Ministry of Coordination and Planning; it is now the
Ministry of Transportation, Communications and Civil Aviation (MTCCA). For
achieving better planning and coordination, in 1972, the Bank assisted in the
preparation of the terms of reference for a UNDP-financed technical assistance
program to strengthen this Directorate. In the meantime, the UNDP-financed
program of technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning and Coordina-
tion, with ECLA acting as executing agency, was cancelled due to lack of funds
after only partial implementation.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The objectives of the transport survey are to provide the Government
of Bolivia with a National Transport Master Plan for the development of a
coordinated transportation system; to define the appropriate governmental
and investment policies for each mode of transport, taking into account all
existing modes in use in the country as well as those that might become
feasible during the planning period; and to help strengthen the Department
of Planning and Coordination under MTCCA.
To achieve these objectives, the survey shall be carried out under
these Terms of Reference and shall consist of:
(i) A review of recent studies;
(ii) the collection of all data and any other information deemed
necessary to prepare a master plan for the development of a
coordinated transportation system, and the identification
of major areas where data are insufficient;
(iii) recommendations for the strengthening of the Department of
Planning and Coordination under MTCCA, which would be respon-
sible for the execution of intermodal transport studies
and the preparation of the transport sector input to the five-
year national plan, including recommendations on its permanent



ANNEX 7
Page 2
staffing; to accelerate implementation, the Consultant shall,
moreover, participate in the organization and planning
activities of the DPC, including the liaison between the
Department and all other agencies in the transport sector,
which shall be put on a permanent basis as soon as possible;
(iv) the identification and analysis of principal problem areas
in the transport sector. The presentation of recommendations
for procedures and methodologies for solving the problems,
consideration given to the technical, operational, planning,
coordinating, organizational, administrative, managerial and
training aspects of such problems;
(v) a detailed highway maintenance program for 1979-1988;
(vi) a detailed transport investment and financial program for
1979-1988;
(vii) an indicative program of transport investment for the period
1989-1998;
(viii)  recommendations for the improvement, if required, of the
operations, planning, organization, administration and
management of each transport mode;
(ix) recommendations for the improvement, if required, of overall
transport policies (including regulatory measures and trans-
port pricing) and coordination among modes; and
(x) draft terms of reference for the technical assistance contract
proposed below.
3.        This survey will be followed by a two-year technical assistance
program for implementation of major policy recommendations to be made under
the National Transport Survey, and all work should be undertaken in such a way
as to lead to a program of continuing action.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
4.        This transport survey shall cover the entire country and all modes
of transport that have or may acquire a significant role in the further
development of Bolivia's transportation system, including highways and road
transport, railways, inland waterways and navigation, airports and civil
aviation, pipelines and access to the sea via adjacent countries, including
roads, railways, airports and ports in these countries to the extent that they
are relevant to Bolivian traffic. The survey shall focus primarily on inter-
city traffic and shall not require specific studies for intracity traffic.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
5.        The consultant shall perform all technical and administrative
studies, economic analysis, financial and field investigations, and other
related work herein described, as required to attain the objectives given
in Part II hereof. In the conduct of this work, the Consultant shall coop-
erate fully with the Government and be solely responsible for the analysis and
interpretation of all data received and for the findings, conclusions and
recommendations contained in his report.
April 1977



dOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A TlHIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Proposed Bar Chart For National Transport Survey 1978-1979
Number of Months                                         Total Man Months
Position                                            3 l4 |5    6 j 7 | 8    9 | 10 I 11 | 12   13   14  15
Project Manager                           I                                                                                                 15
Transport Economist                        __1                                                                                              15
Resources Economist                                                                                                                          8
Industrial Economist                           _       _        _                                                                            6
Agricultural Economist                                                                                                                       8
Financial Analyst                                                                                                                            7
Traffic Data Specialist                   l_l                                                                                               10
Systems Analyst                                                          __                                                                 14
Railway Engineer                                                                                                                             6
Railway Operations and                             I       _t                                                                                6
Management Specialist
Highway Inventory and                     I_._I                                                                                             12
Planning Engineer
Highway Engineer                                                                                                                            15
Highway Maintenance Specialist                     |            _           .13
Airport Engineer                                                                                                                             4
Waterways and Port Engineer                                                                                                                  9
Pipeline Engineer                                                                                                                            4
152
Proposed Bar Chart For Implementation Phase 1980-1981
1   2   31 4 1 5 1 6 1 7 1 8 1 9 1 10  [11 112 j 13 1 14 115   161 17   18 F 19   20 L 21   22 j 23 j 24 I
48                               ox
200
Two Experts
To be defined during the course of
of the preparation of the National
Transport Survey
January 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Summarized Terms of Reference -
Technical Assistance for Highway Maintenance
I.   Introduction
1.        The Bolivian road network consists of 5,019 km of primary, 3,647 of
secondary and 28,647 km of local roads, of which only 1,166 km have asphalt
and 6,559 km have gravel surfaces. The National Highway Service (SNC), an
autonomous organization of the Ministry of Transportation, Communications and
Civil Aviation (MTCCA) is responsible for the development and maintenance of
the network.
2.        The 1976-1980 Five-Year Plan anticipates investment of about US$594
million for the highway sector, to be financed 46% by internal sources and 54%
by foreign loans. Program emphasis will be on improvement and/or new construc-
tion of about 3,800 km of primary and secondary roads and 1,200 km of feeder
roads. The Five-Year Plan addresses itself primarily to new construction,
improvement and rural roads, with no added emphasis being given to maintenance
of the road network.
3.        The immediate need to improve personnel training and to define
proper maintenance procedures is so urgent that the envisaged technical assis-
tance program is justified even if the Bank's proposed Highway Maintenance
Project is not carried out.
4.        The proposed technical assistance to strengthen planning and upgrade
the existing training program would be the first stage of an agreed strategy
for the improvement and strengthening of highway maintenance. Stage 2 would
involve maintenance programs for three districts. Stage 3 would be a country-
wide program for maintenance and rehabilitation.
II. Objectives
5.        The objective of the proposed technical assistance is to improve
the cost effectiveness of road maintenance. Specifically, the technical
assistance would:
(a) Institute planning, scheduling and budgeting procedures in the
Maintenance Director Headquarters at La Paz;
(b) Initiate improvement of maintenance procedures in three of the
nine national maintenance districts in the country (La Paz,
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz); and



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(c) Train personnel at headquarters and in the three maintenance
districts.
III. Scope of Consulting Services
6.        The consultants shall perform the services required to attain the
objectives given in Section II above. In the conduct of this work, the con-
sultants shall cooperate fully with the Government. The consultants will,
however, be responsible for the analysis and interpretation of all data
received and for the conclusions and recommendations contained in their
reports.
7.        The work shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following services:
A.   Maintenance Management and Planning
(i) Evaluation of present SNC objectives, policies and procedures
for maintenance of the national road network;
(ii) Strengthening the management capabilities of the SNC Maintenance
Directorate for planning, scheduling, performing and controlling
and budgeting highway maintenance work programs;
(iii) Assistance in the preparation and monitoring of a two-year
maintenance program (1978-1979) for the three selected
districts, taking into account the findings of the Bank's
Highway Design and Maintenance Model;
(iv) Identifying the training needs on the management and operational
level and recommending appropriate policies and programs; and
(v) Recommendations for the acquisition of soils, site and laboratory
equipment and implementation of analysis practices to facilitate
identification of sources of materials acceptable for highway
maintenance work.
B.   Development of Maintenance Strategies
(i) Suggest procedures and standards for maintenance of present and
planned roads according to the levels of service required, with
special emphasis on low traffic roads and the use of labor
intensive maintenance techniques;
(ii) Assess the impact of screening of aggregates, of adequate
watering and compaction on the frequency of grading required on
unpaved roads.



ANNEX 8
Fage 3
(iii) Assess suitability of the existing equipment for the recommended
maintenance procedures and standards and establish eventual
requirements for additional equipment to be coordinated with
the findings of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model;
(iv)  Assess the manner in which highway maintenance equipment is
being operated and prepare instructions for the efficient use
of the equipment;
(v)  Assess location, size and design of workshops and stores, their
tools and machinery, their organization, the warehousing of spare
parts, equipment maintenance and repair practices and advise on
improvements on these matters.
C.   Training
(i)  Assess present personnel training facilities, programs, costs
and efficiency;
(ii)  Identify overall training needs of maintenance personnel at all
levels;
(iii) Formulate training programs with adequate consideration of
training techniques such as self-instructional texts and
audiovisual materials using, wherever possible, existing
material;
(iv)  Participate in training of foremen, operators and mechanics;
and
(v)  Strengthen the SNC training staff and develop local capabilities
for continuing preparation and administration of training courses.
D.   Preparation of the Proposed Highway Maintenance Project
(i)  Assist SNC staff in the final steps of the preparation of
the project following the guidelines agreed with the Bank; and
(ii)  Review, according to experience gained through activities in
Bolivia, the terms of reference prepared by SNC and the Bank
for engagement of technical assistance for the implementation
of the proposed Highway Maintenance Project.
IV. Cost Estimate
8.        The project will be carried out over a period of 24 months, and
its cost estimate in US$ thousands is the following:



ANNEX 8
Page 4
A.   Technical Assistance                         Foreign    Local    Total
Project Manager (Maintenance Specialist)       144         24      168
Equipment Manager                              144         24      168
Training Specialist                            120         24      144
Sub-total                                 408 /t     72 /2   480
B.   Mobilization for Consultants
1 Wagoneer-type FWD vehicle                      8          1        9
1 Heavy duty pickup                              6          1        7
Vehicle Operating
(2 x 60,000 km x 2 years x US$0.15)            -        36        36
Sub-total                                  14        38        52
C.   8 Portable scales and traffic counters          72          7        79
Soil testing instruments                         6          1        7
Sub-total                                  78         8        86
Total                                     500        118      618
/1   Base salary, transportation to Bolivia, vacation home leave plus
overhead, for managers US$6,000 per month, for training specialist,
US$5,000 per month.
/2   Housing and living allowance US$1,000 per month.
April 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Program of Second Railway Project (1975-1979)
Evaluation of Progress Made as of 31 December 1976
Progress as of 31 December 1976
1.  Rehabilitation of Track               Only 60 km in the western and 25 km in
124 km of line were expected to       the eastern regions have been rehabili-
be rehabilitated in 1975-1976 i'    <ated, due to difficulty in supply of
the western region and 68 km in       ties and ballast.  Ties are now supplied
the eastern region.                   regularly, and be '- -t production will
become sufficient in both regions early
in 1977. It is expected that the
present backlog will be completely
eliminated in 1977.
2.  Rehabilitation program of             The gap between rehabilitation targets
diesel mainline locomotives,          and achievements (see following table)
shunters and railcars.                is due only to the delay in the deliv-
ery of spare parts expected to arrive
early in 1977. The rehabilitation pro-
gram of 1976 will be fully carried out
with about six months delay.
Number of units in running condition 1/
planned and actual are as follows:
1/   In running condition means available for service.  The units unavailable
because of major accidents and extensive delays in obtaining spare parts
are not included. Units undergoing scheduled repair work are included
in running condition.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
1974           1975            1976
Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual
- Mainline Diesel Locomotives
in fleet                          24      24       24     24      24       24
in running condition              16      16       22      22     24       22
- Shunting and Light Diesel
Locomotives
in fleet                           4       4        4       4      4        4
in running condition               1        1       4       1      4        1
- Diesel Railcars:
Ferrobuses
in fleet                        10      10       10     10      12 /1   10
in running condition             4       4       10      6      12       6
Automotors
in fleet /2                      2       2        2      2       2       2
in running condition             -       -        -      -       -
/1   Four railcars - ferrobuses - originally expected to enter service, two
in 1976 and two in 1978, will enter service only in 1978.
/2   The two automotor units comprise four cars each.  They were considered
to be uneconomic to repair and transformed into passenger cars in 1975.
They are mainly used on the international trains La Paz-Villazon.
3.  Rolling Stock Rehabilitation          Progress as of 31 December 1976
1,020 freight cars and 64 pass-       882 freight and 50 passenger cars have
enger cars had to be rehabili-        been rehabilitated as shown in Table 1
tated in the period.                  of this annex.  Uyuni workshop in 1974-
75 made more overhauls of steam locomo-
tives than planned to the detriment of
freight car rehabilitation. The back-
log of 138 freight cars will be over-
come in 1977. The last 14 passenger
cars in the rehabilitation program have
been cancelled because of their age
(more than 60 years old).



ANNEX 9
Page 3
4. Workshop Modernization Program
Viacha Workshop                       Civil works are 100% completed.  About
60% of equipment and facilities are
already provided and being used. The
remainder is expected to arrive in 1977.
Uyuni Workshop                        Civil works are 100% completed.  Equip-
ment and facilities financed with Loan
1121-BO are expected in 1977.
Robore Workshop                       Civil works are 80% completed.  Equip-
ment and facilities financed with Loan
1121-BO are expected in 1977.
Guaracachi Workshop - In view         Civil works have already been con-
of the new role that the shop         tracted.  They will be initiated in
assumes with the complete diesel-   January 1977 and completed in March
ization of the motive power in        1977.  Equipment, tools, and facilities
the Eastern Region, a substantial   are expected to arrive in 1977.
upgrading has been planned. This
includes civil works for the in-
stallation of a movable 20-ton
crane and new equipment and
facilities for the overhaul of
new diesel locomotives. Civil
works were expected to be com-
pleted at the end of 1976.
Cochabamba, Sucre, and Potosi         Cochabamba workshop has been converted
workshops were expected to be         into a maintenance and repair shop for
closed at the end of 1976.            track equipment (bulldozers, excavators,
etc.) while Sucre and Potosi have
decreased their activity due to natural
attrition of their personnel.
Conversion of Oruro and Tupiza        Oruro has been converted into a running
workshops into running sheds by       shed as scheduled.  Tupiza is still in
December 1976.                        operation, even though there is no valid
justification for its existence. Main
problem is reallocation of personnel.
5.  Staff Redevelopment and Reduction
A complete study of ENFE's man-       The study has been carried out with the
power requirements to cope with       help of SOFRERAIL, and the agreed total
present and future situation after  figures for the next five years 1977-
full dieselization had to be pre-   1981 appear in the Quantitative Targets
pared.                                Table 2 attached to this Action Program
Review.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
6. Reorganization of Operations
ENFE had to:
(i)  Implement a Transport Plan       A Transport Plan was implemented in
to cope with expected traf-    late 1975 in the Western System with
fic and optimize the use of    quantitative results shown in Selected
resources                        Operating Statistics (Table 2) and has
been prepared for the Eastern Region
in expectation of the arrival of new
diesel electric locomotives in 1977.
(ii)  Create train control offices   A train control office is performing
well in Oruro for the Western System
and less satisfactorily in Santa Cruz
for the Eastern System. SOFRERAIL ex-
perts are concentrating their assis-
tance upon training personnel to improve
performance in 1977.
(iii)  Set up a car allocation and    This has been carried out with good
control system                   results in the utilization cycles of
foreign cars in Bolivia.
(iv)  Reorganize marshalling yards.  The work has not been initiated because
of the expected relocation of Oruro
yard and expansion of Santa Cruz yard.
The marshalling operations in El Alto
will be reorganized in 1977.
7. Planning Unit
ENFE had to organize its Planning   ENFE carried out these tasks with the
Unit and make it able to (i) for-   full support of SOFRERAIL experts.
mulate the Company policy;            While the Bolivian contribution to the
(ii) prepare traffic projections    work so far done is remarkable, much
and investment plans; (iii) set       has to be completed in staff training
up and monitor implementation of    before the planning unit can be con-
management decisions through          sidered self-sufficient and independent
adequate controls; (iv) carry out   from the technical assistance.
a statistics system able to permit
corrective actions within reason-
able time; and (v) set up and
develop a traffic costing system.
February 1977



BOLIVIA
APPFAI SAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Rolling Stock Rehabilitation
Total
1972            1973             1974             1975             1976        1972-1976
Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Planned Acttal
(Western        2        2       16       6      17       10     13       13       -         -     48        33
Passenger Cars    (Eastern          1        1        6      10       6        5       3        3       -        -      16       19
(Total          3        3       22      16      23       15     16        16      -         -     64        50
Conv. of railcars
in coaches                        -        -       -      -       -        -         8       8       -         -      8         8
( Western      58       58      118    125    248        94    140       117      230       230   794      624
Freight Cars        ( Eastern       2        2       22      35      52       75      80       76       70       70   226       258
( Total        60       60      140    160    300       169    220       193      300       300 1,020      882
Source: ENFE
January 1977                                                                                                                         x



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Action Program 1975-1976
Quantitave Targets
Planned          Actual                 Planned          Actual
1975              1975                  1976             1976
Operations
1.  Working ratio (%)                         85                79                     85               79
2.  Operating ratio (%)                       96                88                     95               96
3.  Availability of mainline                  70                69.8                   75               80
diesel locomotives (%)
4.  Average daily run of diesel              400               403                    410              423
mainline locomotives (km)
5.  Availability of freight car (%)           68                81.6                   74               82
1/   W        E        W         E           W         E      W        E
6.  Average net load per car (tons)-       21.0  17.2        20.2   16.3           21.0   17.4      n.a.   n.a
7. Average daily run per car in
service (km)                          45.0  70.0        53.0   68.0           46.0   74.0      n.a.   n.a.
8.  Net ton-km per wagon-day in use         650   850         799    762             670    910     n.a.   n.a.
9.  Wagon turnaround time (day)            10.9  10.2        10.7   11.3           10.9   10.0      n.a.   n.a.
10.  Number of staff (end of year)!/           6,300             6,043                  6,300           6,040
Rehabilitation
11.  Km of track                              243t                   7                    105              78
12.  Number of freight cars                  210                  193                     300             302
13.  Number of coaches                        16                    16                     20              20
14.  Number of diesel locomotives              6                     6                      2               0
15.  Number of ferrobuses                      5                     5                      1               1
1/  Respectively for Western and Eastern Systems.
2/  Targets to be revised after study of ENFE's manpower requirements is completed.
3/  1975 - Work includes only 24 km of rehabilitation since the completion of the 100 km already contracted             m X
has first claim  on available materials.  Work also includes the consolidation of earth fills in the
Robore-Naranjos section of the Eastern System.
Source: ENFE
January 1977



ANNEX 1 r
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Time-Phased Action Programs 1977-1981
A.   Rehabilitation of Track
1.        The rehabilitation of the track requires (i) the upgrading of the
present track condition to a level where periodic maintenance becomes possible;
(ii) the production of ballast in adequate volumes; (iii) the erection of 36
bridges purchased under previous loans for the Uyuni-Ollague line; (iv) the
upgrading and enlargement of two marshalling yards of Oruro and Santa Cruz;
(v) the training of personnel; and (vi) the execution of periodic maintenance
work (see Annex 5, item A, and Table 1 attached, for details).
B.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.        The number of units in the fleet expected to be in running condi-
tion 1/ is as follows:
by end of       1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
Mainline Diesel Locomotives
in fleet                             34       45        45       45       45
in running condition                 33       45        45       45       45
Shunters and Light Diesel Locomotives
in fleet                              4       18        18       18       18
in running condition                  4       18        18       18        18
Diesel Railcars
in fleet                             10       14        14       14        14
in running condition                 10       14        14       14       14
The above figures include new purchases as follows:
Units
1977       1978
Mainline Diesel Locomotives                                 8           16
Shunters and Light Diesel Locomotives                       -           8
Diesel railcars - ferrobuses                                -           4
1/   In running condition means available for service.  The units unavailable
because of major accidents and extensive delays in obtaining spare parts
are not included. Units undergoing scheduled repair work are included in
running condition.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
C.   Rehabilitation Program and Modernization of Workshops
3.        Viacha Workshop:  In 1977, it is planned to (i) rehabilitate the
last two D.E. locomotives immobilized since 1973, after crash, for lack of
spares and cannibalized; (ii) perform two intermediate and six general over-
hauls on mainline D.E. locomotives; (iii) rehabilitate three D.H. shunters;
(iv) install facilities and machine tools supplied with Loan 1121-BO. In
1978, it is planned to (i) perform eight general overhauls on D.E. locomo-
tives; (ii) install new Cummins diesel engines in three D.H. locomotives whose
engines (MAN--built in Japan) are unreliable and obsolete since no more are
being built by the manufacturer; and (iii) complete the installation of
facilities and equipment in the program.
4.        Uyuni Workshop:  In 1977, it is planned to (i) rehabilitate 138
freight cars so that the entire freight car rehabilitation program (1,020
freight cars) will be completed; (ii) perform intermediate overhauls on 75
freight cars (out of the newly purchased 200). In 1978, it is planned to
(i) perform the cyclic overhaul of 125 freight cars left over from 1977 and
(ii) perform the cyclic overhaul of the freight cars rehabilitated in 1974-
1975. Target labor requirements for rolling stock repair are as follows:
1977      1978
Passenger car general overhaul (man-hours per car)   4,500          3,000
Freight car general overhaul (man-hours per car)           600        450
5.        Robore Workshop:  In 1977, it is planned to (i) perform interme-
diate overhauls on three steam locomotives; (ii) repair and maintain the steam
locomotives of the Eastern Region until full dieselization of the fleet is
achieved; (iii) perform maintenance and cyclic overhaul on 150 freight cars;
and (iv) perform maintenance and cyclic overhaul on six passenger cars.
6.        ENFE will implement the yearly plan for the installation of main
machine tools, equipment and facilities in the workshops.
D.   Financing and Accounting
7.        ENFE will complete revaluation of the fixed assets using 1977
replacement costs.
E.   Bridges
8.        ENFE will implement the plan for the erection of the bridges on the
Uyuni-Ollague line (see Table I of this Annex).
F.   Variations of Layouts
9.        ENFE will implement the plan for the construction of four variations
of layouts on the La Paz-Villazon line (see Table 1 of this Annex).
March 1977



ANNEX 10
Table I
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIROl RAILWAY PROJECT
ACTION PROGRAM 1977-1981
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS
1977           1978            1979           1980            1981
Operations
I  Working ratio (7.) 1/                                                                   78              76              75             74              73
2  Operating ratio (7,) 1/                                                                  95             94              93             92              91
3  Availability of mainline diesel locomotives   CT) 2/            W                       80              80              85             85              85
E                       80              85             85              85              85
4  Average daily run of diesel locomotives (Km) 2/                 W                      440             450             450            450             450
5  Availability of:                                                E                      440             450            470             480             480
/a) freight cars (7.)                                                              86              86              88             90              92
(b) passenger cars (1)                                                              70             75              80             80              80
6  Average net load per car (tons) 2/                              W                     21.0            21.1           .21.2           21.3            21.4
E                     17.5            17.7           17.9            18.0            18.1
7  Average daily run per car in service (Km) 2/                    W                     55.6            56.7            58.0           59.0            61.0
E                     81.6            83.0           84.0            86.0            90.0
8. Net ton-km per wagon-day in use 2/                              W                      690             710             720            735             780
E                      930             955            985            1000            1030
9. Wagon turn around time (day) 2/                                 W                     10.8            107            10.6           10.5            10.4
E                      9.2             9.0            8.9             8.7           ;8.5
10  Number of staff (end of year)                                                       6,044           5,980          5,900           5,826           5,740
Rehabilitation
11. Km of track 2/                                                 W                      119             151            254             204             201
E                      109             135            154             154              -
12  Number of weldings 2/  000)                                   W                        16             24              35             37              32
3                                       E                        14              16             16              16              16
53  Ballast production m  (000) 2/                                 W                      119             151             254            204             201
E                      109             135            154             154              -
14  Number of freight cars                                                                138              -               -              -
15  Number of diesel locomotives                                                             2                             -                      -
Scrapping Program
16  Steam locomotives 2//3//Mainline & Shunters) (Nos )            W                       46               4               2             10
E                       26              12               -              -              -
17  Freight cars 'Nos.) 2//4/                                      W                      180             180             192             70             70
E                       80              80             89              30             30
18  Passenger cars (Nods.) 2/ 4/                                   w                         8             20               3               -             -
E                       18              12               2              -              -
Other Programs
19  Erection of bridges on the Uyuni-Ollague line (Nos 5                                    12             24               -
20 Construction of variations in the layout of following
lines:
Vizcachani Km 130-131 '7. of total)                                               50             50
Tupiza Km 123-124 (% of total)                                                    50             50
Quehus Km 701-703 (% of total)                                                     -            100               -
Oruro-Uyuni Km 750-754 (% of total)                                                -              -             100
For purposes of this Exhibit, "working ratio" means working expenses (i.e operating expenses before
depreciation and interest) divided by operating revenues, and "operating ratio" means operating expenses
(including depreciation but excluding interest) divided by operating revenues,
1/ To be reviewed upon completion of the National Transport Survey and the determination of the transport pricing policies.
2/ Respectively for Western and Eastern Systems.
3/ 1977 figures include all the locomotives already in the scrapping list.
4/ Preliminary figures which can be corrected by census in course.
Source:  ENFE
April 1977



ANNEX 11
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Tentative Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year       Disbursement              Cumulative
and Quarter          (US$ million)              (US$ million)
FY-1 978
1st                     1.05                     1.05
2nd                     5.75                     6.80
3rd                     6.96                    12.71
4th                     6.21                    18.92
FY-1 979
1st                     6.78                   25.70
2nd                     5.88                    31.58
3rd                     1.16                   32*74
hth                      .31                   33.05
FY-1980
1st                      .96                   34.01
2nd                      .26                   34.27
3rd                      .49                   34.76
4th                      .1)4                  34.80
FY-1 961
1st                      .15                   34.95
2nd                      .05                   35.00
Source: Mission estimate
February 1977



ANNEX 12
nag? 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Methodology Used in Traffic Forecast and Analysis of Future
Traffic by Major Commodities
A.   Methodology Used in Traffic Forecast
Freight Traffic
1.        A traffic forecast for freight services up to 1981 was prepared by
ENFE and SOFRERAIL and revised by the Bank. This forecast considered all
commodities that represented more than 1% of total traffic in 1975. It shows
that traffic will grow in ton-km at a rate of 3.7% per year on the Western
System and 9.0% on the Eastern System, resulting in an overall growth of 6.0%
per year for the total network.
2.        The projected growth rate on the Western System is lower than the 4.3%
annual growth rate observed in the 1960-1975 period. Traffic growth, however,
had been hampered in recent years by deterioration of railway equipment, the
15-month traffic interruptions caused by floods in 1974, and exogeneous factors
such as mining strikes and the Government's new requirements of a deposit of 25%
of the value of imports prior to importation as well as increased road compe-
tition. The restructuring of railway tariffs in late 1972 had, as one of its
objectives, the discouraging of short-haul traffic. The effect of the new
tariff structure is now fully absorbed. The arrival of equipment ordered under
the First and Second Railway Projects, together with current and future rehabi-
litation of lines and new equipment proposed under the Third Railway Project and
the impact of the recently created Commercial Department, should enable ENFE to
reach its traffic targets.
3.        Freight traffic has been growing on the Eastern System since 1967 at
an unusual rate of about 19% per year. The eastern part of Bolivia is the main
center for exports of sugar, wood and cotton, which have registered dramatic
gains in recent years. Further increases are expected in exports of these
commodities, and the projected percentage growth per year is quite realistic
considering the monopolistic position enjoyed by the railway for export-import
traffic in this region.
4.        These estimates were compared with the results of a correlation
analysis, which uses GDP estimates for the period 1965-1981 as explanatory
variable of rail freight traffic growth. The conclusion indicated that in
order to achieve the results of the commodity analysis, GDP should grow by
5.9% annually; such a rate is within the 5.2-6.2% range forecast for Bolivia
estimated by the Bank (Economic Memorandum on Bolivia (1546-BO), dated
MIarch 23, 1977).



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Passenger Traffic
5.        Traffic on the Western System increased quite regularly from 1965 to
1970. The average rate of growth was 4.7% per year. Between 1970 and 1974,
there was a 29% decrease in pass-km moved, due mainly to the lack of equipment.
Recovery took place quickly following the 1971-1974 period of shortage of
equipment and traffic interruptions, so that traffic for 1976 is expected to
be 251 million pass-km, which would correspond to an average rate of growth of
3% per year between 1970 and 1976. This fast recovery is likely to end,
however, and an annual growth of 3.6% per year in pass-km was assumed up to
1981.
6.        For the Eastern System, where bus service is virtually non-existent,
the average growth rate for the 1965-1976 period was 15.0% per year and for the
1970-1976 period 14.0% per year. The projected annual growth in pass-km is 10%
up to 1981.
7.        These estimates, showing an overall growth of 5.9% per year for
passenger traffic, were compared with the results of a correlation analysis,
which uses GDP for the period 1965 to 1981 as explanatory variable of rail
traffic growth. The conclusion indicated that, to achieve the estimates
above, GDP should grow by 5.2% annually; such a rate is consistent with
the Bank's projection of GDP growth, which is expected to be in the 5.2-6.2%
range during the remainder of the 1970's.
B.   Analysis of Future Traffic by Major Commodities
Minerals
8.        The transportation of ore for export has always been the key compo-
nent of traffic on the Western System. The projections of ores and refined
metals are based on the Bank's Report No. 1251a-BO, Present Position and
Prospects of the Mining and Metallurgical Sector of Bolivia, dated November 19,
1976, and are summarized below:
1975     1976    1977       1978      1979     1980      1981
Tons (103)          140.4    173.6   182.0    196.4    222.0    245.6    293.4
9.        Only the exported portion of the production is significant for rail-
way traffic, whether it is exported in ore or metal form.  The historical
series are as follows:
(in '000 tons)
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
Exports   80.2  142.3  141.9  121.6  148.7  145.0  139.2  135.2  193.7  166.9  138.5
Rail      128.8  171.4  176.9  173.4  177.3  171.3  157.4  136.6  190.0  171.3  209.1
Traffic



ANNEX 12
Page 3
10.       On the basis of these past relationships, the elasticity of rail
traffic with respect to exports has been estimated at 0.42. Assuming that
exports would grow at the same annual growth rate as the production, at 11.7%
per year, this would lead to an annual rate of growth of rail traffic of 4.9%.
It is assumed that average haul will remain on the 1976 level of 253 km. As a
result, traffic is expected to grow as follows:
Western System
1976            1977           1981
Tons (103)                          226.4          237.6          288.0
Ton-km (10 )                         57.3           60.1           72.9
Average haul (km)                   253            253            253
Iron and Steel for Construction
11.       On both networks, this category has been significant for the last
five years. It consists of products imported in various forms of iron and
steel. The imports are increasing to keep pace with requirements for build-
ing a large number of new industrial plants and for housing in general.
12.       Railway traffic in this category is virtually all imports.  Imports
during 1973 to 1975 developed as follows:
1973          58,306 tons
1974          50,914 tons
1975         109,077 tons
For the same period, rail shipments are summarized below:
Western System                               Eastern System
3               6    Average               3               6    Average
Tons (10 )   Ton-km (10 )   Haul (km)   Tons (10 )   Ton-km (10 )   Haul (km)
1973      36.4           11.9            327          18.7           11.0            588
1974      24.7            8.8            356          20.5           11.3            551
1975      82.4          29.7             360          36.1           16.8           465
13.       Using these past figures, elasticity of rail traffic with respect
to imports was estimated as 1.25. Assuming a 4.1% annual growth rate in the
construction industry for the 1977 to 1981 period, the estimated annual growth



ANNEX 12
Page 4
for rail traffic is 5.1%, which should be similar on the Western and Eastern
Systems. As a result, 112,200 tons will be transported on the Western System
in 1981. Average trip length has increased in the past and should increase
from a level of 456 km in 1976 to 470 km in 1981. Rail traffic on the Eastern
System should increase to 80,500 tons in 1976, which is higher than would have
been expected from the past trend. Some 75,000 tons are conservatively used
as the starting point for future projection, leading to a forecast of 96,200
tons to be shipped by rail in 1981. The average haul has varied considerably
in the past, reaching 588 km in 1973 and then falling; there is an increasing
trend, however.  It was assumed that it will reach 560 km by 1981.
Western System                 Eastern System
1975     1977      1981         1976      1977    1981
Tons (103)            82.4    91.1    111.2            80.5    83.4    96.2
Ton-km (106)          29.7    35.8       52.0          43.4    45.3    53.9
Average haul (km)   360       389       470            539     543      560
Petroleum Products
14.       Since the crude oil production is transported by pipeline, the
Bolivian Railways primarily move refined products and liquified gas. The
following are data on produced and carried tonnage:
(in '000 tons)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
Refinery
Production         545.0   570.0    587.0   637.0   669.0   713.0   756.0   806.0
Rail Traffic
Western System      47.8    43.9       44.5    68.7    80.4    59.8    59.9    75.0
Eastern System        -       1.5       3.5      3.8     4.8      5.4      7.1    17.6
Based on these past relationships, the elasticity of rail traffic with respect
to refined products and liquified gas was estimated at 1.61. The estimated
rate of growth of refinery output is 5.2% per year, which should lead to an
8.4% annual rate of growth for rail shipments. This would lead to a total
tonnage of 125,000 tons in 1981, divided into 75,000 tons for the Western
System (taking into account the recent construction of the Sucre-Potosi
Product pipeline) and 50,000 tons for the Eastern System. Average haul on the
Western System is expected to be constant and, on the Eastern System, to
increase minimal up to 1981. As a result, traffic is expected to grow as
follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Western System                     Eastern System
1975   1977   1981               1975    1977   1981
3
Tons (10 )              75.0   75.0   75.0                17.6    24.9   50.0
Ton-km (10 )            27.7   27.7   27.7                 9.8    13.9   28.0
Average haul (kim)    369    369    369                  557     558    560
Cement
15.       In 1975, ENFE carried only 8% of the total cement traffic.  An active
commercial policy enabled ENFE, however, to increase its share of this traffic
substantially in 1976. The following are data on past consumption and rail
shipments:
(in '000 tons)
1971     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
Consumption           130.1    151.9    165.6    202.1    255.6          n.a.
Rail Shipments
Western System       12.6      6.1      14.7      14.0      23.0       78.4
Eastern System        1.8      2.8       4.2       2.5       9.9      11.0
The elasticity of rail traffic with respect to consumption obtained from the
above past relationships is 1.39.  Assuming an annual rate of consumption
growth of 5.5%, railway tonnage would increase by 7.7% per year. Using the
volume carried in 1976 as a base, rail shipments would reach 130,000 tons in
1981. Considering the past average growth rates on both systems, this total
traffic would be distributed between 98,000 tons on the Western System and
21,000 tons on the Eastern System. The average haul on the Western System
is 530 km in 1976 and seems unlikely to increase further. On the Eastern
System, average haul has remained almost stable for the last two years and
is used for the projections, which are as follows:
Western System                    Eastern System
1976   1977   1981               1976    1977   1981
Tons (10 )              78.3   81.9   98.0               11.0    12.5   21.0
Ton-km (10 )           41.5   43.4   51.9                 5.9      6.7   11.2
Average haul (km)    530    530    530                  536      536    533



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Wood
16.       Bolivia is rich in wood resources, the greatest potential being in
the tropical and subtropical regions. Wood production maintained a relatively
moderate growth rate during 1973 to 1975, as a reflection of the exported
volumes:
(in '000 tons)
1973      1974       1975
Production                   96.9      109.7      101.5
Exports                      42.5       51.4       34.7
Rail Shipments
Western System             22.3       11.5       24.6
Eastern System             60.1       69.8       37.2
17.       Rail traffic is very closely linked to exports, showing an elasticity
of 0.71 obtained from the above past relationships. The estimated rate of
growth of production is 5.5% per year. Using the 0.71 elasticity, the growth
rate of rail traffic would be 6% per year; thus, total rail traffic would
reach 88,000 tons in 1981. Average haul has increased to about 500 km in 1976
both on the Western and the Eastern Systems and should remain constant up to
1981. The projections are summarized below:
Western System                    Eastern System
1975   1977   1981               1975    1977   1981
Tons (10 )             24.6   27.7   35.0               37.2    41.9   53.0
Ton-km (10 )           10.8   12.7   17.5               17.6    20.1   26.5
Average haul (km)    440    458    500                 470      480    500
Chemical Products
18.       The domestic industry does not yet bring in sufficient traffic for
the railway to offset the losses resulting from the import restriction mea-
sures in effect since early 1976. The imports rose to 33,700 tons in 1974 and
34,900 tons in 1975, and rail traffic reached 50,400 tons in 1975, but then
decreased by 22,800 tons in 1976. Nevertheless, it can be expected that
imports of chemicals will grow at an estimated annual rate of 5.5% during the
remainder of the 1970's. Consequently, it can be expected that rail traffic
on the Western System will make up for the 1976 drop in 1977 and then will



ANNEX 12
Page 7
continue to increase at the estimated growth rate of imports. The average
haul has increased markedly from a previous average around 300 km in 1976
and is expected to grow as follows:
Western System
1975       1977        1981
Tons (10 )                 50.4        50.4        62.4
Ton-km (10 )               14.6        14.6        21.9
Average haul (km)         290         290         350
Machinery and Equipment
19.       Traffic of goods under this category is dependent on their imports,
which increased very irregularly until 1972 and then registered the following
figures:
(in '000 tons)
1972      1973       1974       1975
Imports                    16.0       23.0       23.0      45.7
Rail Shipments
Western System            5.8       20.9       23.4      21.5
Eastern System            2.2        5.1        6.1      14.6
20.       On the basis of the above relationships, the elasticity of rail
traffic with respect to imports has been estimated at 1.25.  Assuming a growth
rate of 4.1% per year, a 5.1% annual rate of growth for rail traffic can be
expected. Average haul for 1981 is estimated on 454 km on the Western System
and 520 km on the Eastern System. The projections are as follows:
Western System                    Eastern System
1975   1977   1981               1975    1977   1981
Tons (10 )             21.5   21.5   26.5               36.1    38.5   47.0
Ton-km (10 )            9.8    9.8   11.9                7.5      8.9   10.8
Average haul (km)    453    453    454                 515      520    520



ANNEX 12
Page 8
Sugar
21.       Despite the regular increase in consumption, Bolivia's exports of
sugar continue to grow because of the country's steadily increasing pro-
duction. The following figures show the past trend:
(in '000 tons)
1971     1972      1973      1974      1975
Production               85.1    122.6    173.5    153.6    197.4
Exports                   6.2      18.4     62.0      36.8      56.8
Imports                   -       39.0       -         -         -
Rail Shipments
Western System          7.4      17.1     48.5       8.1       5.7
Eastern System          6.8     30.3       0.7      25.6      37.5
22.       During 1973 to 1975, exports grew more rapidly than production
and the elasticity of exports with respect to production is estimated at
1.71 on the basis of the past trend.  Production can be expected to increase
at the same rate as that of agriculture as a whole, or 5.5% annually, which is
consistent with the Bank's agricultural objectives. Thus, exports should
increase at a yearly rate of 9.4%. Rail traffic seems to depend essentially on
the level of exports, and the elasticity of rail traffic with respect to exports
is estimated at 0.53. Consequently, the annual growth rate of rail traffic is
5.0 per year. Average haul, which in 1976 was 479 km on the Western System, is
expected to increase to 485 m in 1981. Average haul on the Eastern System,
which was 581 km in 1975 and 643 km in 1976, is expected to be 639 km in 1981.
These assumptions lead to the following traffic projections:
Western System                    Eastern System
1975   1977   1981               1975    1977   1981
Tons (103)              5.7    6.0    6.8                37.5    88.9  108.1
Ton-km (106)            2.4    2.7    3.3                22.7    57.4   70.3
Average haul (km)    428    445   485                   581      633    639



ANNEX 12
Page 9
Wheat and Flour
23.       Rail traffic increased at an annual rate of 1% on the Western System
and about 9% on the Eastern System. It is expected that rail traffic will
continue to increase until 1981. For the Western System, it is assumed that
1981 traffic will equal the average value of the last three years, 1974-1976.
For the Eastern System, the 8.7% per year trend observed from 1971 to 1976 is
expected to continue. The ton-km for the Western System will be kept at the
1976 level and the average haul on the Eastern System will be kept at the
1976 level.
24.       These data and assumptions are used to obtain the following projec-
tions:
Western System                     Eastern System
1975   1977   1981               1975    1977   1981
Tons (103)             172.7  156.4  180.6               36.7    25.4   36.7
Ton-km (106)            86.1   84.2   84.2                18.6    13.6   27.4
Average haul (km)    499    538    467                   507     535    535
Cattle
25.       Cattle-raising takes place mainly in the Chaco (Department of
Tarija) and in Santa Cruz. Exports have increased at an annual growth rate
of 9.6% since 1971. Rail transport of cattle takes place mainly in the
eastern region and is expected to grow at 4.3% up to 1981. Average haul is
expected to reach the 1975 level again in 1981. Rail traffic on the Western
System is assumed to remain at the 1975 levels during 1977 to 1981.
Western System                  Eastern System
1975   1977   1981         1975     1976    1977   1981
Tons (103)              0.9    0.9    0.9          11.4     14.0    14.8   18.3
Ton-km (106)            0.2    0.2    0.2           4.1      4.9      5.2    6.6
Average haul (km)    273    273    273            359      351      351    360



ANNEX 12
Page 10
Cotton
26.       Although cotton production increased considerably until 1973,it has
fallen since then, so that exports are beginning to decrease:
(in '000 tons)
1971     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
Production               17.9     31.2      72.9      55.5      30.0      25.6
Exports                   -         -       14.4      17.6      24.7      13.0
Rail Shipments
Western System          -        -         0.6       1.0       5.5       3.2
Eastern System          7.1     11.9      14.1      21.1      22.6      11.8
27.       Future expectations are geared to an output increase, however, and
rail traffic is expected to continue to increase at approximately 5.5% per
year after recovering the loss experienced in 1976.  Average haul is expected
to remain almost at the 1975 level on the Western System and to increase
slightly on the Eastern System. The following traffic projections have been
made:
Western System                    Eastern System
1975   1977   1981               1975    1977   1981
Tons (10 )               5.5    5.5    6.8               22.6    22.6   28.0
Ton-km (10 )             2.6    2.6    3.2               14.2    14.2   17.9
Average haul (km)    478    478    471                  628      628    640
Rice
28.       Rice production is beginning to increase further in Bolivia, and the
country renewed rice exporting in 1975, although rail shipments are still
negligible:



ANNEX 12
Page 11
(In '000 Tons)
1973         1974       1975
Production                      37.7         46.6        61.0
Exports                          -            -          10.3
Rail Traffic
Western System                 1.7           3.5        5.9
29.       During these three years, there has been an excellent correlation
between rail traffic and production volume, but the calculation is based on
an extremely short series. The elasticity of rail traffic with respect to
production is 2.56, so that, if output increases by 5.5% a year, traffic can
be expected to rise by 14% annually. Assuming that the trip length average
will remain unchanged from 1975, the following projections are obtained:
Western System
1975      1977       1981
Ton (10 )                         5.9        7.7       13.0
Ton-km (10 )                      1.9        2.5        4.2
Average haul (km)                 322        325        323
Vehicles
30.       This traffic consists entirely of imports.  It is growing very
slowly on the Western System, but much faster on the Eastern System because
of the vehicles, automobiles and farm tractors imported from Brazil. It is
assumed that, after reattaining the 1975 volume in 1977, the Western System
will continue to grow at its present rate and the Eastern System at 5.3%
per year, which yields an overall growth rate of 4.1%. Average haul on the
Western System is expected to remain stable whereas, on the Eastern System,
average haul is assumed to increase slightly.



ANNEX 12
Page 12
Western System                     Eastern System
1975   1977   1981                1975    1977   1981
Tons (103)              15.3   15.3   17.3                23.8    27.1   32.5
Ton-km (106)             7.1    7.1    8.0                13.3    15.1   18.5
Average haul (km)    466    466    462                   559     559    570
Paper
31.       As a result of increasing road competition, it is assumed that rail
traffic will remain constant at the 1976 level, leading to the following pro-
jections:
Western System
1975     1976      1977      1978
Ton (103)                 6.3       3.7      3.7       3.7
Ton-km (106)              2.2       1.1       1.1      1.1
Average haul (km)       342       298      298       298
Other Products
32.       Goods not analyzed above represent 5% of the total freight tonnage
carried on the Western System and 6% of its total ton-km. Traffic is expected
to reach a level of 21,000 tons in 1981.
33.       On the Eastern System, non-analyzed products account for 17% of
tonnage and 16% of ton-km. Traffic is expected to decrease to a level of
71,000 tons in 1981.
March 1977



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF ThIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Long-Run Marginal Rail Costs
(in $b, at mid-1976 Prices)
Freight Traffic                                      Passenger Ferrobuses                                           Passenger Trains
With the Plan              Without the Plan                With the Plan             Without the Plan                With the Plan              Without the Plan
Financial    Economic            Economic                 Financial    Economic              Economic                Financial    Economic              Economic
Ton-km       Ton-km              Ton-km                   Pass-km      P'as8-km              r'ass-km               Faso-;         ass-kmPsk
WESTERN SYSTEM
1977    0.353        0.359               0.359                     0.221         0.214                0.215                  0.208         0.202                 0.203
1978    0.339        0.346               0.350                     0.210        o.204                 0.206                  0.194         0.188                 0.190
1979    0.326        0.333               0.339                     0.198        0.192                 0.197                  0.187         0.181                 0.186
1980    0.308        0.315               0.327                     0.182        0.177                 0.186                  0.180         0.175                 0.184
1981    0.296        0.303               0.323                     0.174         0.169                0.179                  0.175          0.170                0.180
A 1% increase per year                                      A 17. increase per year                                    A 1%. increase per year
after 1981 has been                                         after 1981 has been                                        after 1981 has been
assumed.                                                    assumed.                                                   assumed.
EASTERN SYSTEM
1977    0.319        0.330               0.332                     0.178         0.173                0.173                   0.165         0.160                0.160
1978    0.300        0.312               0.313                     0.163         0.158                0.160                   0.161         0.156                0.158
1979    0.288        0.299               0.303                     0.154         0.149                0.154                   0.152         0.147                0.152
1980    0.271        0.283                0.292                    0.141         0.137                0.146                   0.146         0.142                0.151
1981    0.263        0.274               0.295                     0.137         0.133                0.146                   0.139         0.135                0.148
A 1% increase per year                                      A 1% increase per year                                     A 1% increase per year
after 1981 has been                                         after 1981 has been                                        after 1981 has been
assumed.                                                    assumed,                                                   assumed.
1/  The estimated reductions in the long-run marginal rail costs are explained in Annex 19.
2/ Including freight handling costs for rail-to-truck and truck-rail-truck transfers.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Road Vehicle Operating Costs
1.        Vehicle operating costs were estimated for interdepartmental trans-
port on routes competing with the Bolivian Railways. The 12-ton capacity
diesel-powered Volvo truck and the 36-passenger Mercedes-Benz diesel-powered
Pullman-style bus were identified as typical of the road transport vehicles
that are the railroad's principal competitors, and cost estimates for variable
and fixed costs of operation were developed. Sources of data were transport
syndicates, bus fleet operators, importers, and agencies of the Ministry of
Transport.
2.        Traffic and operating characteristics data were collected for the
following routes:
Western Region (Altiplano and Oruro-Cochabamba)
Desaguadero-El Alto (103 km)
El Alto-Oruro (212 km)
Oruro-Potosi (322 km)
Potosi-Camargo-Villazon (449 km)
Potosi-Tupiza-Villazon (351 km)
Potosi-Sucre (166 km), and
Caracollo-Cochabamba (200 kin).
Eastern Region
Cochabamba-Santa Cruz (503 km), and
Santa Cruz-Yacuiba (590 km).
The Santa Cruz-Cochabamba route does not compete with the railway; it was
surveyed, however, because its traffic influences vehicle operations throughout
the country.
3.        Vehicle operating costs were developed using primarily the consump-
tion estimating formulas developed in the TRRL/Kenya Vehicle Operating Cost
Study (TRRL Laboratory Report 672,1975). Vehicle specifications were input
to the formulas on the basis of the following characteristics:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Volvo N-10             M-B OF-1313
Item                           12-ton truck            36 Seat Bus
Engine (diesel)               6 cyl, 270 hp            6 cyl, 145 hp
No. rear axles                       1                        1
No. tires                      6 (12x20/18)            6 (9x20/14)
Average gross weight           12.3 - 16.0 ton         11.0 ton
Average speed                 40 km/ph                 48 km/ph
Average annual travel         80,000 km                140,000 km
Average useful life           6 years                  6 years
Average tire life              24,000 km               28,000 km
Average residual value         25%                     30%
Average load
Western area (1976)         7.13 tons                27 passengers
(1981)         6.20 tons                27 passengers
Eastern area (1976-1981)   5.30 tons                 27 passengers
Average fuel consumption
(lt./1,000 km)              290-380 lt               220-270 lt
Total cost
(in Bolivian pesos,
mid-1976 prices)
Economic                    1,065,600                1,305,680
Depreciable value
Economic                      752,300                  889,680
4.        Due to road improvements scheduled to take place on the Desaguadero-
El Alto and Caracollo-Cochabamba roads, included in the 1976-1980 Five-Year
National Development Plan, truck and bus operating costs on these roads
will decline from current levels by 1981. Also, more rigorous enforcement of
truck axle loading limits is expected, which will reduce average loads and
increase truck traffic on the Caracollo-Cochabamba road. These changes will
also affect costs over the period 1977-1981.
5.        The following tabulation presents estimates of large truck and bus
operating costs for regional groupings of roads competing with the railways.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Economic Operating Costs of Large Trucks and Buses on Routes
Competing with the Railways
(in $b, at mid-1976 Prices)
12-ton Truck             Pullman Bus
Veh-km   Ton-km         Veh-km   Pass-km
A.   Western System Area
(1)   Direct costs, excluding
depreciation and interest
1976                           6.468    0.907           4.227    0.157
1981                           5.862    0.946           4.093    0.152
(2)  Direct costs, including
depreciation and interest
1976                           9.113    1.284           5.395    0.200
1981                           8.200    1.323           5.185    0.192
B.   Eastern System Area
(1) Direct costs, excluding
depreciation and interest
1976-1981                      7.612    1.436          5.805    0.215
(2) Direct costs, including
depreciation and interest
1976-1981                     11.041    2.083          7.614    0.282
6.        Average daily traffic levels are relatively low on the routes
studied. It is not expected that traffic growth by 1981 will produce conges-
tion on the highways; therefore, increases in marginal costs of vehicle
operations from that factor are not considered.
Source: Road Vehicle Operating and Maintenance Cost Study, December 10, 1976
carried out by the Bank's consultants.
February 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Marginal Road Maintenance Costs
1.        Road maintenance costs were estimated for each of the routes compet-
ing with the railways. Cost estimating formulas developed by the National
Highway Service.(SNC) were modified to reflect the road wear attributable to
heavy trucks and buses. Analysis of traffic characteristics on each route
and the result of a special axle load survey performed by SNC in June 1976
provided the data for estimating road maintenance costs on each route.
Differences in the distribution and level of vehicle types and cargo loads
produced variations in costs from route to route.
2.        The cost estimating formulas reduced to the following equations,
which take into account the mix of road surface types, traffic composition
and vehicle loading characteristics in each region. The prices are in
mid-1976 Bolivian pesos.
Western System Area
1976:     CM - $b 22,383 + $b 152.97 (ADT)
1981:     CM - $b 24,825 + $b  63.21 (ADT)
Eastern System Area
1976-1981: CM = $b 18,936 + $b 41.25 (ADT)
Where: CM = Annual cost of road maintenance per km
ADT = Average daily traffic (all types of vehicles).
The 1981 equation for the Western System differs from that of 1976 because of
expected road improvements and changes in truck loads.
3.        Average costs of road maintenance per vehicle-km and per ton or
pass-km on the Western and Eastern System area routes are estimated as follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Average Cost of Maintenance
($b at mid-1976)
12-ton Truck                   Pullman Bus
veh-km   ton-km               veh-km      pass-kmi
Route Location
Western System Area
1976                    1.115    0.156                  0.314     0.012
1981                    0.817    0.132                  0.287     0.011
Eastern System Area
1976-1981               1.923    0.363                  1.046     0.039
Trucks in the Western area carry an average load of approximately 7.1 tons in
1976 and 6.2 tons in 1981. Eastern area trucks will carry about 5.3 tons each
throughout the period. Pullman buses carry an average of 27 passengers in
both regions.
4.        Marginal costs of road maintenance were derived from the average cost
equations by factoring the variable component with weighting factors that re-
flected the traffic levels and vehicle weight characteristics of each route.
Account is taken in the estimates of changes in road conditions and traffic
levels due to road improvements and axle overloading restrictions on area routes.
Marginal Costs of Road Maintenance
($b at mid-1976)
12-ton Truck                   Pullman Bus
veh-km    ton-km               veh-km    pass-km
Route Location
Western System Area
1976                    0.4341   0.0553                 0.1217    0.0045
1981                    0.2093   0.0332                 0.0944    0.0035
Eastern System Area
1976-1981               0.1887   0.0356                 0.1153    0.0043
Source:  Road Vehicle Operating and Maintenance Cost Study, December 10, 1976
carried out by the Bank's consultants.
February 1977



ANNEX 16
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Trucks and Buses Needed to Carry Diverted Traffic from the Railways
1.   Assumptions
Freight Traffic
The average 12-ton truck will travel 80,000 km per year, carrying an
average load of approximately 7.1 tons in 1976 and 6.2 tons in 1981 in the
Western System area and 5.3 tons throughout the period in the Eastern System
area. The truck has a useful life of six years. The economic investment cost
per truck, excluding the residual value, is $b 6.9 million.
Passenger Traffic
The average pullman bus will travel 140,000 km per year, carrying an
average of 27 passengers. The bus has a useful life of six years. The econ-
omic investment cost per bus, excluding the residual value, is $b 6.8 million.
2.   Computation
Rail traffic diverted to roads in the "without project" case was
divided by the estimated annual (ton-km, passenger-km) performance for trucks
and buses. The quotients were rounded and multiplied by the investment costs
for truck or bus. Both types of vehicles must be replaced after six years
of service; therefore, replacement costs have been assessed to current trans-
port requirements year by year, with cycles repeating every six years.
February 1977



ANNEX 17
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Average Rail Revenues /1
(In $b, at mid-1976 Prices)
Freight Traffic    Passenger Traffic
Ton-km               Pass-km
Western System
1977                                 0.901                 0.265
1978                                 0.903                 0.261
1979                                 0.903                 0.263
1980                                 0.904                 0.263
1981                                 0.904                 0.261
Eastern System
1977                                 0.893                 0.257
1978                                 0.890                 0.249
1979                                 0.886                 0.248
1980                                 0.882                 0.243
1981                                 0.880                 0.241
/1   Estimates are explained in Annex 20.
February 1977



ANNEX 18
P,2l 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Present and Future Role of the Railways
1.        In Bolivia, the railways are the most reliable connection with the
rest of the world for import and export traffic. As a result, most exports
and imports, especially those of bulky, high volume and low value goods, rely
on the railways (para. 2.03). At present, there are no highways competitive
to the La Paz-Arica, Oruro-Antofagasta, and La Paz-Matarani railways, but
some international freight is carried by trucks over low standard Bolivian
and Peruvian roads to and from Arica and Matarani. Some additional inter-
national traffic is carried by trucks over low standard Bolivian and Peruvian
roads to and from Arica and Matarani and also over low standard roads through
Villazon in the west into Argentina. There is almost no competition for the
Santa Cruz-Yacuiba railway, due to the very poor condition of the roads in the
southeastern region. There is no probability that the situation of inter-
national roads may change substantially in the near future.
2.        The highway system serves most of the internal traffic in the south-
west portion of the country and, where possible, complements the railways
in the transport of high value goods and other goods that the railways cannot
move because of the present shortage of equipment.
3.        The development of production in the east, on which the overall
development of the country depends so heavily, relies on the availability
of adequate rail transport. Road alternatives, if and when provided, will
most likely not be competitive, in the foreseeable future, for the transport
of the bulky commodities constituting the basic production of the region that
will be moved to ports or consumption centers over 2,000 km away. Moreover,
the opening of the road to Brazil (about 600 km) will await an economic study
prior to its construction (para. 2.10), and the improvement of the road to
Argentina will take a long time, leaving the railroads as the only viable
alternative for at least about a decade.
4.        In the west, where road alternatives exist, comparisons of long
run railway marginal costs for freight traffic with road transport costs
show that the latter are substantially higher. More rigorous enforcement
of truck axle loading limits is expected to increase road costs further.
Although shippers consider other elements--particularly quality of service
and speed--the traffic being moved by the railways consists, to a large
extent, of bulky, relatively low value products, with long hauls, for which
transportation cost is a prime factor. The improvement in the road system,
particularly the Caracollo-Cochabamba and Desaguadero-El Alto roads, will
increase the competitiveness of road service. However, a substantial amount
of rail traffic will not be affected by these roads either because of its



ANNEX 18
Page 2
nature or its location, and considerable improvements in the quality of rail
services should be expected as a result of the Investment Plan. The conclu-
sion is that the railways will remain the basic mode for the transport of
foreign trade provided that ENFE reaches satisfactory arrangements with Chile
for adequate maintenance of the Arica-Charana section.
5.        The future role of the Western System in the transport of passengers
is not yet clear. Investments in passenger traffic could not be economically
justified. The future role of the railways in the transport of passengers
should be evaluated with great care on a route-by-route basis before any
important long term investment commitments are made for these services.
March 1977



ANNEX 19
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Traffic Costing Study
1.         In February 1976, a SOFRERAIL cost expert visited Bolivia for the
second time (his first visit was in 1974) to undertake a traffic costing study
and to train ENFE counterparts in the techniques of railway costing, with a
view toward establishing a permanent costing team. A costing section consist-
ing of one supervisor and three cost analysts was set up and attached to
ENFE's Planning Unit. The costing system has been established separately for
freight and passengers and for the Eastern and Western Systems. The study
used the 1975 statistical and financial data. The cost-oriented accounting
system, established in 1974 by another expert from SOFRERAIL, was very helpful
in separating expenses by activity. The total expenses for 1975 by each code
of accounts were analyzed to exclude abnormal expenses pertaining to that year.
A summary is given in Table 1 to this annex.
2.         The total expenses, by each code of account, were allocated among
the following categories:
-  Passenger trains       -      First class car
Second class car
Sleeping cars
Dining car
Luggage car
-  Ferrobuses            -       Pullman
Special
-  Autocarriles          -       One type
-  Freight trains        -       Less than carload (LCL)
-      Carload
(i) minerals
(ii) other commodities
The allocated expenses were then analyzed to segregate long run marginal costs
from fixed costs. The marginal costs were determined basically by using the
percentage variability of each type of expense. These variability percentages
were determined by the International Union of Railways (UIC) method, but
necessary adjustments were made to reflect the operating characteristics of
ENFE and the physical conditions of Bolivia.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
3.        Depreciation was calculated on the 1975 replacement cost of the
fixed assets. Cost of capital was included in the study, but, for tariff
purposes, it has been excluded for the present.
4.        The marginal costs were further analyzed and separated into two main
groups, terminal costs and line operating costs. The costs of transporting
individual commodities and passengers were calculated by a formula which
includes terminal cost for a given tonnage of haul plus line operation cost
for given ton-km.
5.        The cost study has been useful to the railway in setting realistic
rates and their periodic revisions based on marginal costs, controlling costs
(e.g., maintenance and repairs of ferrobuses which were high and hidden in
total costs), rationalization, and streamlining railwav operation. Important
conclusions drawn from the stUdv were: (i) that the 1975 freight revenues
(for carloads and less-tha[L-carloads separately) covered marginal costs,
absorbed fixed costs and contributed over 30% toward interest payment; and
(ii) that the total passenger service revenues covered marginal costs on the
Eastern System but only about 95% on the Western System. Revenues from
sleeping cars, autocarriles and ferrobuses ("special" only) were short of
marginal costs on the Western System while revenues for sleeping cars and
autocarriles were short cf marginal COSL on the Eastern System. However, the
improved occupancy ratio, and the safety and social factors necessitate the
conLinuation of these services.  Nevertheless, a modest increase of about 10%,
on the average, is fully justified. ENFE, with the permission of the Ministers
of Transp-rt and of Planning and Coordination. raised fares V' 1"^' f          va
February 1977. The results of the cost study are shown in the attached table.
February 1977



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Revenues and Marginal Crsts
(in $b mi1lion)
_     ____-__----_-- -------- FRgIGHT ----------------
----------------------------------------P  PASSLNGERe---------.-------__--------_ ---------            Lees than                      Car Loads                     Total
Passenger Trains                             Ferrobuses                                 car  load                       other          Total        LCL and
L] t Class    2nd Clas    Sleepers    Lugeag            pllsa      Especial        Autoe-rrile6          (LCL          Mineral    Commodities    car load    car loads             Total
Revenues
Western Systen                                      9.7          16.9            1.0         7.3           4.7         4.7                1.6              14.0           57.1           241.0          298.1         312.1         358.0
Eastern Systea                                      6.0           7.4            0.2         8.2           3.0         3.7                0.6              13.8            -             168.6          168.6         182.4         211.5
569.5
Marginal Costs (Norme-'. ed)
Opera_tng Costs
.scern Systam                                       6.2          10.1           4.8          6.7           3.5         3.4                4.0              11.0           14.8            77.3           92.1         103.1
Eastern System                                      4.9           5.2            1.0         3.0           2.5         2.7                2.7               6.0             _             51.3            51.3         57.3
Depreciation
Western Sysres                                      1.8           2.5            1.0         0.7           1.1          1.7               0.3               1.5             3.3           16.7            20.0         21.6
Eastern Syatem                                      1.0           1.1           0.3          0.4           0.6         0.6                0.1               1.0            __              8.4             8.4          9.4            -
Total:  Western Systam                         8,0          12.6           5.8          7.3           4.6         5.1               4.3               12.5           18.1            94.0          112.1         124,7         172.3
Eastern Systan                        5.9           6.3            1.3         3.4           3.0         3.3                2.8               7.0             _             59.7            59.7         66.7           92.7
265.0
F -enues Less Harginal Costs
Western Systas                                      1.7           4.3           (4.8)        -             0.1        (0.4)              (2.7)              1.5            39.0          147.0           186.0         187.4         185.7
Eastern System                                      0.1           1.1           (1.1)        4.8            -          0.4               (2.2)              6.8             -            108.9           108.9         115.7         118.8
304.5
Fixed Cost (includinR depreciation)                                                                                                                                                                                                     251.2
(Norsalized)
Contribution Toward Debt Service Charges                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
RESULTS                                                                          Western Spotes                    Estern System
Freight      Passenser            Freigt       Passenger
1975  vevenuee                                                                 312.1          45.9               211.5          29.1
1975 Marginal Costs                                                            124.6          47.7                66.7          26.0
1975 Unit kms (Ton-luu and Pass-ksm)                                           294.2         191.6               171.2          122.6
197.. Unit S. 'enue                                                            1.061         0.240               1.235         0.237
1975 Uni. rc c                                                                 0.424         0.249        it    0.390          0.212
'urce:
January 1977



ANNEX 20
Page 1
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Income and Expense 1977-1981
Assumptions and Explanatory Notes
(The FAST Computer Model Was Used for the Forecast)
1.   Tariffs and Revenues
Tariff levels of 1975 were used to project freight revenues, and
levels of 1977 were used for passenger revenues. The forecast is in mid-1976
constant pesos. During negotiations, it was agreed with the Government and
ENFE that, if the cost increases are too high to permit ENFE to meet the
financial targets of the Plan of Action, necessary action will be taken to
raise tariffs sufficiently.
The freight revenue per ton-km was calculated for major commodities
21i(1 fur 'ess-than-carload traffic based on 1975 experience.  The unit revenues
were then multiplied by traffic forecast, by commodity, for the period 1977-
1981. For passenger services, the revenues per pass-km were calculated by
each type of service, e.g., first class, second class, sleeper and railcar
(speci;l and pullman).  The unit revenues were multiplied by the passenger
traffi_ trecast -or 1977-'98i.  The miscellaneous revenues (rent, accessories
and others) were calculated based on past experience and adjusted to future
expected changes. The projected revenues are shown in Table 9. For economic
analysis the projected revenues for 1977-1981 were divided by projected
traffic for freight and passenger and for the Eastern and Western Systems and
the results are shown in Annex 17.
2.   Operating Expenses
SOFRERAIL consultants performed a detailed cost analysis of railway
operations based on 1975 statistical and financial data. The costs were
separated between the Eastern and Western Systems and between passenger and
freight. These costs were also shown in total and in long-run marginal tosts
-or major commodities of carload freight as well as for less-than-carload
freight and for each class of passenger services. The marginal unit costs were
calculated for freight on a per ton-km basis, by commodity, and for passenger
on a pass-km basis, by class of service. The unit costs excluded depreciation
so that working costs can be segregated from operating costs. These costs
were then applied to the traffic forecast of 1977-1981 to arrive at the long-
run marginal costs. The results were the working costs, which were adjusted
to mid-1976 price levels. These costs were then reduced on the basis of
improvements in the operating performance, such as dieselization of the loco-
motive fleet, rehabilitation of track and equipment and workshops, increased



ANNEX 20
Page 2
availability and reduced turn-around time. (The details are discussed in
paragraph 4 of this annex.) To these marginal costs, the fixed costs for
1977-1981 were added, based on 1975 experience. The costs were adjusted to
mid-1976 price levels, on which the forecast for 1977-1981 is based. All wage
awards in 1976 were included in the calculations. As per ENFE, there will
be no wage increase in 1977. Depreciation has been adjusted, first, to
reflect the estimated revaluation of fixed assets in 1977, and second, to
allow for the prices of fixed assets to be purchased through the proposed
Investment plan.
3.   Forecast in Current Bolivian Pesos ($b)
The above forecast of expenses was formulated in terms of mid-1976
prices. In order to show the impact of inflation on costs, the expenses were
estimated to reflect the price increases between 1977 and 1981 provided by the
Country Program Department. These estimates are as follows:
Accumulated      Annual
1974                       100.0              -
1975                       114.5           14.5
1976                       121.9            6.5
1977                       132.2            8.4
1978                       142.8            8.0
1979                       153.4            7.4
1980                       164.2            7.0
1981                       175.7            7.0
4.   Cost Reductions Resulting from Improvements in Operating Performance
ENFE and SOFRERAIL have conducted a detailed study of cost reduc-
tions during 1977-1981 resulting from dieselization, rehabilitation of track
and equipment, improvements in operations, telecommunications, etc. Marginal
costs of 1975 were separated into traffic, traction, workshops and track. The
expenses were then analyzed to determine the effect of improvements in opera-
tions such as (i) reduced fuel cost and reduced repairs and maintenance cost
of locomotives due to dieselization, (ii) reduced repairs and maintenance cost
of ferrobuses due to technical changes, and (iii) reduced operating costs
(such as train and locomotive crew wages) due to increased speed and better
train performance resulting from improved track. The details are as follows:
(i) Dieselization
The cost of fuel per locomotive-km was calculated separately for
steam locomotives and diesel locomotives based on 1975 experience. Also, the
repairs and maintenance costs for steam and diesel locomotives were calculated
and expressed in terms of diesel and steam locomotive-km. The costs for
diesel locomotives were lower than for steam locomotives. Then the percentage
savings in 1981 were estimated by replacing steam locomotive costs by diesel
locomotive costs as compared with those of 1977, which are shown in Table 1 of
this annex.



ANNEX 20
Page 3
(ii) Track Rehabilitation
Better track allows better regulation of services; this reduces the
cost of traction and of crew wages. The percentage savings in such costs in
1981 were estimated and are shown in Table 1 of this annex.
(iii) Modernization of Workshops
A specific study of the repairs and maintenance of ferrobuses per km
indicated that they were over 60% higher than the repairs and maintenance of
2,000 hp diesel locomotives per km. The ferrobus engine has less than 400 hp.
By installing air inlets on diesel engines of ferrobuses, either inside the
coaches or over the roofs, the high engine wear and maintenance cost would be
avoided. This was taken into consideration as a major cost reduction in ferro-
bus maintenance costs. Because of better equipped and modernized workshops,
the availability of locomotive and rolling stock has improved. The estimated
percentage savings, as a result of the above improvements, are shown in Table 1
of this annex.
(iv) Acquisition of Parts, Modernization of Telecommunication System
and Improved Operations
The arrival of long-awaited spare parts has improved the availability
of equipment and reduced the cost of rental on equipment and the deficit in
net interchange cost. The improved telecommunications will help eliminate
delays, and the arrivals and departures will be regulated; therefore, the
associated costs will be reduced. The estimated percentage of savings is
shown in Table 1 of this annex.
April 1977



ANNEX 20
Table 1
Percentage Reduction in Operating Costs
Resulting from Improved Performance
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981
- - - -          Percent - - - - - - - - -
Freight Trains
(i)    Dieselization           - West    3.0      5.7      8.1        10.5      12.5
- East    2.0      5.6      6.3         7.0       7.0
(ii)   Track Rehabilitation  - West    0.4        0.9      1.5         2.9       3.4
- East    0.2      0.2      0.4         1.2       2.0
(iii) Modernization of
Workshops             - West    0.1       0.1      0.2         0.3      0.5
-East    -         -        0.3         0.3       0.5
(iv)  Acquisition of Equip-
ment, Parts, Tele-
communications, etc.  - West    1.3        2.0      2.7         3.3       3.6
- East    2.7      4.5      6.6         9.5      11.0
TOTAL         - West    4.8      8.7    12.5         17.0      20.0
- East    4.9    10.3    13.6          18.5      20.5
Passenger Trains
(i)   Dieselization            - West    1.2      2.4      3.6         4.5       4.6
-East    1.0       1.8      2.2         2.2       2.2
(ii)  Track Rehabilitation   - West    0.2        0.4      0.4         1.0       1.4
-East    0.2       0.9      1.6         3.2       3.5
(iii) Modernization of
Workshops              - West    0.4       0.8      1.2         1.6       1.8
-East    0.3       0.5      1.8         1.9       2.0
(iv) Acquisition of Equip-
ment, Parts, Tele-
communications, etc.  - West    1.2        2.4      3.6         4.9      5.2
-East    2.5       3.8      4.4         5.7       8.3
TOTAL         - West    3.0      6.0      8.8        12.0      13.0
- East    4.0      7.0    10.0         13.0     16.0
Passenger Ferrobuses
(i)   Dieselization            - West    -        -       -           -         -
-East    -         -       -
(ii)  Track Rehabilitation   - West    0.8        1.5      1.5         2.8       3.8
- East    0.7      1.0      1.0         3.5       3.6
(iii) Modernization of
Tr'oba;hops            - 'Test    3.5      7.6    13.0        18.6      21.4
- East    3.6      8.2    13.7        17.5      18.4
(P') Acquisition of Equip-
ment, Parts, Tele-
cn,munications, etc.  - TTest     *7      l.a      7.*         2.f 
- East    0.7      1.8      2.3         3.0      4.0
TOTAL        - West    5.0    11.0    16.5          24.0      28.0
- East    5.0    11.0    17.0          24.0     26.0
Source: ENFE
January 1977






66                                                           6G2
BOLIVIA
. f XAPPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ENFE'S PASSENGER TRAFFIC DENSITY IN 1975                                                                 [            R AZ i
<rs,.s.4 (Passengers Carried  by Line Section)
-    -    - -   Ye_ ,$3LA PAZ                                                                                                                                               r-
* G uaqu. ,JGuaqui         ichosa
.-  4   -U~ ;/    g,   \r>Patacomnaya                                                          C                                                                                        -
4              orocor c{<AA B                                                                       Mneo           Pozo Tigre 
Char.ga                                      .                                      i<  < SANTA CRUZ                                  San Jose
Sbarana >0 7?r P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to.    ialas ..>
< Machocamarca                                                        Aiquile                                                                            Robore
<   - + \                      4Jv  O~~~~                    ~~~~~Uncia                     t
Puerto
SUCRE  ~   ~     ~      CbeasSuarez
Lake 0:    <   zr                                          Tarabuco
Rio Mulato                                                                             /
2yunl                         t                          - 9   Boyuibe           : < < 5                                    r
s . - - I- w to wAtocha                   /                                    } -; TRAFFIC  DENSITY  SOUrTH
)          ~~~~Possengers
200.000                           W   . ME R i CA
- i   '   -    9       <,                             7s;t             1-     -           ~~~~~       ~      ~     ~     ~ ~          ~~~~~~~~~40,000-     f
..   .nder 5000 .Villazdn                                                   Under ..U1
4  !  -  .   -:   N   g  .   .  .        -  ~~~~~~. >      1     -    -     .   <                                                                  I E | | | Exssting RzilwoysEisting- ilway
International Boundgries      ';
07     0 10 0        150    20METERS-                A     R       G     E       N      T       I     N    A   A                   bri
700             KiOETERS                                                                                                                   iml 6ne  rao6    Vt,(






74e                      /                     660                                            620
C'                                              BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ENFE'S FREIGHT TRAFFIC FLOW  OF COMPLETE CARLOADS (1975)                                         0  R A'Z  I L
fi c                                (Tons Carried by Line Section)                                         L           . ..
3      (>_  ;j3~~i LA PAZ                                                                                                          t.  '
- < _,3< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SANTA CRUZ-, Joe-
Gu J4V.-i-  >   Machacaarb Aiquilek
R    ; ;   vf  \  :  > 0     Uncia                                             Robeto
Patocamaya~UCE                                aezs                                                      uet
rocor.                  -COCHABA MBA                                    Pozo   Tig eS
hra                                                         SANTA CRUZ                             Son JooTarabuco  oe
-    +,Co / G a 5   n  }            \                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coiuh
Pto Pali sA
20'\  1L0 KJ   ,                        j}            /                                                  2
m                                 Aiquileyunl       ]  Boyuibe          .h b
L4 V  ;:;   /    -    , -~~~~~ Atocha                   i           !~~     TRAFFIC FLOWS           ~
_   N       t                 J   \'2! Vllozdn             /   -*<                     * | i | | ExislingCRE  Clbezas  5|re
T |rabucT  C                            I h       tons)
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~\ColpJN                                                                                 oudaresU                   CE
00~~~~~~~0
KOMTrS                                                                         Tons2 Corried In thousandtons)                       A






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ENFE's ORGANIZATION CHART                                                                        CIAtT  2
BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
GENERAL MANAGER
REHABIILITAT ION ANOTCHIALAVIE
INVESTMENT MANAGER                               T
7 SPECIAL STUD'IES
PLANNING OFFICEIAND CONSTRUCTIONS
INTERNALAUIDITOIRLEGALAD-ISE
OPERATIONS                                               COMMERCAL                   ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGER                                                  MANAGER                      MANAGER
|ORKSHOPS TRACTRACCIONNOPERATION         WAYS  WORKS       TELECOM                                           ACCOUNT ND        BUPP ES       RELATIONS
MANAAGRGANGEEMNAE
DEATMN             DEPT                            DET            DEPT.*
MARKETS  ||TRANSPORT     COMMBRC AL |          ARIF PP<
STUDIES         TECHNlE DUBS  SERVICES        S  SUDIES          
TRACCON &  TRAFFIC &
DEPT.~ ~ ~   ~    ~ DEP                                                     DEPT.E         DET
OPEE                                    T STPIONSORT   COMMERCIAL
|Ofc--d. Ib~2,196  Ofi-bDIVISION         TECHNIBUE SMERVICES6949
* Orlcrereaed on SopremenNe 23. lRTA  OIff,c,a EcIleoin No 47/7B                                                                                         World Beok.-16RAR






tS C_  re'  2 5;;vB'AZIL-  -'==                                                                                                    i   -  $O!1
-  T Fcor~                             RAilWAY  ND I~OADSYSTEMS
A                              ---'-'-'-'-'-~~~ENFE
Perccc-j            r;-u-/   ,ar                 ,,us  -rb git                                                      Clse w0emn                             TraeIn : :      0-20,
rle26ROADO UNDER STUDY; JNDER EDT,.,
-'cruecs  - -   ,"    a                                                              D~~~~~~~~~~~~R TO IFE PINANOEP VY OTHER AGENCiS
roar st            'st o    io '00
.' C  d   e     C     o r o 2'                             ivwe.,           t)                                 SdnJore        <              ' go Corr1'ou  i
-tv                                                                                                                                                                   it-~~~~~~~*IN    ib   roqY
\~~~~~~~~~~~ Ew, iim *OM#  ;k -a   5Zs
7     I'~~~~~~~~~~7
clares                   ~         Su-tc Acc 
Saln-p        03.Oj R-s
P.I.   ~ ~   ~     Sn c~              taMne,u       IPNDDPu- re ,
'SO
LAKE  M.c Metilc      A a      ecc
r: ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ arcv               0Su  use D;.t,X ')CeoHyEe                                              ,         Y              .                                     
A-t.  s c                                       '.                            Coccepetoc
I  ! c   H   I   LUcri3cak                                                     I;Sllr   -'1 !cc.c  -         .,uc'''O     ;C-- ;LeStat;tt                     =i.4
1 7(st i                        f            ,        StAtmd 8.Xt=~~~~aduact -u',, oro                           Sac rs                              So Matfc  <ot
CurcyuruIra                                              YPV                                           S
- C eCarolcc -                                           "               Ntural.e
/                          P0/CS                               or 4P. Gr
M-i      Iaucjer'ss
ThAcclruguurs                   A     R>G        E       NT        I~~~~~~SANT NCRUZtprdec
C.deC.-q.,  IJRC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~X                                 e$  ecuucnt0 uteltur tr,
b.  M. ~ ~ ~ ~~5T$cSxcscu                                    mbcarO eh-ooiesfion                                                                        5p



