                                                                                                                61812 V1




                                                                                             ,


 BOLIVIA NATIdNAL
TRANSPORT STUDY

                                                                              'FINAL REPORT         VOLUME ONe


               EXISTING CONDITIONS
                   AND FORECASTS


                                                                                                 PREPARED FOR

                                                             t:;OVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
                                              tl"JHh~!S,l'~':lV   OF TRAhtSPORT ANO COMMUNICATIONS)
nl,¥T'E'1i;;:'~'\.I,r.;";'rg:"11",.B:'.l.<.    ~~.~,Ii\H<   ~~!~")~   ReC·ONS'T'~UC;nON   AI'\ID CEVELOPMENT
                                                       eJN!TEO NAT'!(.U\.IS OE\lr:;LO~MeNT PROGRAMME




                                                                                                 PREPAREOBV




                                                                                             ~""A   ~~.t~9",~   "'   i;-:-~~:JL~'\llr~

                                                                                                                             '11."0'18'
 BOLIVIA NATIONAL
TRANSPORT STUDY

                               FINAL REPORT    VOLUME ONE

    EXISTING CONDITIONS
        AND FORECASTS


                                              PREPARED FOR
                    GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
             (MINISTRV OF TRANSPORT ANO COMMUNICATIONS)
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANO OEVELOPMENT
                  UNITEO NATIONS OEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME




                                              PREPAREDBV
                             WILBUR SMITH AND ASSOCIATES
                                      IN ASSOCIATION WITH
                               CONSA SRL & ECOVIANA SRL



                                           LA PAZ. BOLIVIA
                                                ..JULV 18B1
  BANKERS TRUST TOWER                                                                                       CABLE WILSMITH
  P. O. BOX 92                                                                                                TELEX 57-3439
  COLUMBIA, S. C. 29202                                       July, 1981
  PHONE (803) 771·8844



   Senor Cnl DEMA Rene Guzman Fortun                                      Mr_ James B. Newman
   Minister of Transport and                                              Ports, Railways and Aviation Division
     Communications                                                       Latin America and Caribbean Regional
   La Paz                                                                   Office
   Bolivia                                                                The World Bank
                                                                          Washington, D.C. U.S.A.

   Gentlemen:

       Wilbur Smith and Associates is pleased to submit this Final Report of Phase I of the
   Bolivia National Transport Study.             The Report is in five volumes.            Volumes I and II review
   the existing situation and present the main analyses, findings and recommendations.                             Volumes
   III and IV contain supplementary appendices and the fifth volume is a summary of the Report.

       The Report represents the conclusion of over two years effort by a professional team made
   up of consultant's staff and Bolivian nationals.                  During the course of the Study, several
   interim reports and technical papers were produced, culminating in a draft Final Report in
   November, 1980.        The first review period was concluded in December with the final meeting
   of the Study Steering Committee, when all initial comments on the draft report were pre-
   sented by Bolivian entities and by the World Bank.                  A more lengthy review and discussion
   period followed in which additional valuable contributions were made to the Final Report.

       The Report presents and supports a recommended National Transport Plan set in the con-
   text of the expected development of the Bolivian economy over the next ten years, and with
   consideration for possible developments in the following ten years.                        It is not intended
   that the recommendations be taken as a fixed plan; forecasting the future is a hazardous
   task, and it is impossible to foresee all possible developments.                       Therefore, it is strongly
   recommended that the Government set up a permanent transport planning group, utilizing the
   Bolivian counterpart team involved in this Study,to monitor developments and adapt the Plan
   to changing circumstances.           The first steps have been taken in this direction by selecting
   a counterpart team for Phase II of this Study.                 Hopefully, this will form a solid basis for
   the continuing transport planning process, and for a permanent National Transport Center_
       The cooperation and assistance we received throughout the Study from officers of the
   Government and others concerned with transport in Bolivia, is gratefully acknowledged.                              We
   also wish to recognize the contributions made by our colleagues on the national counter-
   part team, and by our local associate consultants, CONSA SRL and ECOVIANA SRL. We appreci-
   ate the opportunity to have participated in the study effort, and look forward to the imp-
   lementation of the recommendations.



                                                              Respectfully submitted
                                                              WILBUR SMITH AND ASSOCIATES



                                                              ~r~
                                                              ~~~~ma~' tf  Smi



ALLIANCE, OH - AMMAN, JORDAN - BRISBANE - CAMDEN, NJ- CHARLESTON, SC- COLUMBIA, SC- FALLS CHURCH, VA - HONG KONG - HOUSTON
KUALA LUMPUR, MALA YSIA - KNOXVILLE - LA PAZ, BOLIVIA - LEXINGTON, KY - LOS ANGELES - MELBOURNE - MIAMI· NEW HAVEN
NEW YORK· PITTSBURGH - RALEIGH, NC - RICHMOND - .SAN FRANCISCO - SANTA CRUZ, BOLIVIA - SINGAPORE - TORONTO - WASHINGTON, DC
                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


Chapter

   1      INTRODUCTION                               1

          Background of Study                        1
          Purpose and Scope of Study                 2
          Working Papers and Earlier Reports         4
          Structure of Final Report                  5

   2      OBJECTIVES OF TRANSPORT POLICY             7
          Use of Existing Infrastructure             8
          Regulation of Operators                   10
          Improvement of Transport Infrastructure   11

   3      DATA COLLECTION AND STUDY METHODOLOGY     13

          Data Collection                           15
          Transport Model System                    19
          Project Evaluation                        27
          HDM Model and Highway Analysis            31
          Budget Constraints                        33

   4      EXISTING TRANSPORT SYSTEM                 35

          Railroads                                 35
          Roads and Road Transport                  39
          River and Lake Transport                  44
          Transport by Pipeline                     47
          Air Transport                             48
          Overall View                              50

   5      TRANSPORT COSTS AND TARIFFS               53

          Treatment of Costs                        54
          Railroad Costs and Tariffs                57
          Road Transport Costs and Tariffs          64
          River Costs and Tariffs                   72
          Air Transport Costs and Tariffs           77
          Pipeline Costs                            84


   6      THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK OF THE
            TRANSPORT MODES                         87

          The Roads                                 87
          The Railroads                             91
          River Transport                           93
          Air Transport                             97

                            -i-
                      TABLE OF CONTENTS
                          (Cont. )


Chapter

   7      THE BOLIVIAN ECONOMY                            99

          Socio-economic Factors Affecting Transport
            Demand                                        99
          The Bolivian Economy in 1980                   100
          The Future of the Economy                      114
          Alternative Development Patterns               121
          Quantification of Development Projects         126
          Socio-economic Characteristics in 1989 and
            1999                                         126


   8      RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR TRANSPORT INVESTMENT   133

          Discussion of the Problem                      133
          Past Investments                               135
          Projection                                     136
          Conclusion                                     142


  9       EXISTING AND FUTURE TRANSPORT DEMANDS          143
          Freight Transport Demand                       143
          Freight Transport within Bolivia               144
          Freight Transport between Bolivia and
            Neighboring Countries                        151
          International Transit through Bolivia          155
          Passenger Travel                               157
          Transport Demand in Major Corridors            160


 10       TRANSPORT PROJECTS SELECTED FOR EVALUATION     163

          Deficiencies of the Transport System           163
          Committed Projects                             168
          Candidate Projects                             170
          The Computer Transport Networks                179




                           -ii-
                                                               ..
                    CONTENTS OF VOLUME TWO


          Chapter
            11'     Improvement and Maintenance of
                      Existing Highways
            12      New Penetration Roads and Other
                      Transport Links in Remote Areas
            13      Rail Transport
            14      Air Transport
            15      Improvement to International Trans-
                      port Links
            16      Organizational Aspects of Transport
            17      Future Tariff Policy and Financial
                      Prospects
            18      Investment Program
            19      Future Transport Planning
            20      Conclusions and Recommendations



                          TABLES


Number

 4-1     Length of Roads by Districts and by Type
           of Road Surface                                 40
 4-2     River Navigation System in Bolivia -
           Amazon River Basin                              45
5-1      Total Railroad Costs, 1977                        58
5-2      Costs of Passenger Transport by Train, 1977       59
5-3      Costs of Goods Transport by Rail, 1977            60
5-4      Impact of Rehabilitation Policies on Train
           Operating Costs and Track Maintenance Costs     63
5-5      Costs of Transport by Road                        66
5-6      Vehicle Parameters Adopted for Cost Equations,
           1977                                            68
5-7      Vehicle Cost Parameters, 1977, 1989 and 1999      70
5-8      Unit Costs of Road Maintenance Operations         71
5-9      Tariffs for Trucks and Buses, 1977                73
5-10     Cost of Transport on Ichilo-Mamore River System   75
5-11     Costs of Scheduled Air Transport, 1978            78
5-12     Costs of Non-scheduled Air Transport, 1978        80
5-13     Airport Costs by Region and Function, 1979        82
5-14     Financial Transport Costs by Pipeline, 1977       85


                              -iii-
                                                                   ,",




                       TABLES (continued)
                                                                  '",



Number

 6-1     Expenditure and Income for Road construction
           and Maintenance, 1976-79                          88
 6-2     Road User Charges, 1976-79                          89
 6-3     Expenditure and Income of National Railroad
           Company, 1976-79                                  92
 6-4     Expenditure and Income of Lloyd Aereo Boliviano,
           1978-79                                           95
 6-5     Expenditure and Income of AASANA                    97
 7-1     Trend of Gross Domestic Product, 1970-80           104
 7-2     GOP by Expenditure, 1970, 1977 and 1978            105
 7-3     GOP by Industrial Sector: Averages for 1970-76     107
 7-4     Agricultural Production, 1978                      110   ,",

 7-5     Value of Exports, 1970, 1977 and 1978              112
 7-6     Production of Ten Principal Minerals               113
 7-7     Production of Hydrocarbons, 1970, 1977 and 1978    115
 7-8     Industrial Production, 1970, 1977 and 1978         116
 7-9     Summary of Socio-economic Variables - 1977
           and Projections for 1989 and 1999                128
 7-10    Supply and Demand of Commodity Groups - 1977
           and Projections for 1989 and 1999                129
 7-11    Production, Consumption, Imports and Exports:
           1977 and Projections for 1989 and 1999           131
 8-1     Transport Investment, 1973 - 1979                  137
 8-2     Transport Investment and National Resources,
           1973-1979                                        138
 8-3     Transport Investment and National Resources,
           1980-2000,Development Pattern C                  140
 8-4     Transport Investment and National Resources,
           1980-2000,Development Patterns A and 0           141
 9-1     Existing and Predicted Internal Freight
           Tonnages                                         145
 9-2     Internal Ton-Kilometers by Mode                    146
 9-3     Internal Co~modity Movements by Road and
           Rail                                             147
 9-4     Observed and Predicted Import Tonnages by
           Major Mode                                       152
 9-5     Observed and Projected Export Tonnages by
           Major Mode                                       153
 9-6     International Transit Traffic on Bolivian
           Rail System, 1979                                156
 9-7     Passenger Travel, 1977                             158
 10-1    Candidate Rail Projects                            172
 10-2    Candidate Road Projects                            174
 10-3    Candidate River Projects                           176
 10-4    Miscellaneous Candidate Projects                   178



                            -iv-
                     FIGURES
Number                                    Following Page
  3-1    Roadside Interview Stations             15
  3-2    Analysis Zones                          20
  3-3    Freight Transport Models                21
  3-4    .Hodal Allocation Diversion Curves      24
  3-5    Highway Transport Cost System           32
  4-1    Existing Railroad Network               36
  4-2    Trends in Rail Transport                37
  4-3    Existing Network of Primary and
           Secondary Roads                       38
  4-4    Navigable Waterways                     44
  4-5    Existing Pipelines                      47
  4-6    1980 Domestic Air Passenger Services    49
  4-7    Accessibility for Ground Transport      50
  5-1    Price Indices at Current Rates: 1960
           to 1979                               55
  5-2    Railroad Costs Related to Traffic
           Density                               61
  5-3    Normal Functions Relating Inter-
           provincial Truck Tariffs to
           Distance                              72
  7-1    Main Population Centers                102
  7-2    The Mining Bel t                       111
 7-3     Oil and Gas Fields                      113
 7-4     1989 Development Pattern                122
 7-5     1999 Development Pattern A              123
 7-6     1999 Development Patterns C and D       125
 9-1     1977 Daily Road Vehicle Movements       160
 9-2     1989 Daily Road vehicle Movements       160
 9-3     1999 Daily Road Vehicle Movements       161
 9-4     1977 Annual Tonnage Flows by Rail       161
 9-5     1989 Annual Tonnage Flows by Rail       161
 9-6     1999 Annual Tonnage Flows by Rail       162
 10-1    Committed Transport Projects            169
 10-2    Candidate Rail PrOJects                 171
 10-3    Candidate Road Projects                 173
 10-4    Candidate Airport Projects              175
 10-5    Candidate River Projects                175
 10-6    Miscellaneous Candidate Projects        177
 10-7    The 1989 Test Network: Candidate
           Projects                              180
 10-8    The 1999 Test Network: Additions
           to the 1989 Test Network              181



                      -v-
                                                    ,..,
               APPENDICES
Volume
  3      lA   Available Working Papers
         3A   Roadside Interview Surveys
         3B   Collection of Other Transport Data
         3C   Socio-Economic Data Collection         ••
         3D   Definition of Analysis Zones
         3E   Definition of Commodity Classi-
                fications
         3F   The Transport Model
         3G   Case Study of Project Evaluation
         3H   Evaluation of New Modes on Existing
                Links
         4A   Existing Characteristics of Rail-
                road Transport
         4B   Principal Results of Roadside
                Origin-Destination Survey
         4C   Existing Characteristics of
                Waterborne Transport
         4D   Existing Pipeline Characteristics
         4E   Existing Characteristics of Air
                Transport
         5A   Costs of Railroad Transport
         5B   Costs Related to Road Transport
         5C   Costs of River Transport
         5D   Costs of Air Transport
         5E   Other Aspects of Transport Costs
         6A   Road User Charges
         6B   Financial Analysis of AASANA
         6C   Financial Analysis of Rail
                Transport
 4       7A   Overall View of the Bolivian
                Economy
         7B   Definition of Alternative
                Development Patterns
         7C   Forecast and Distribution of
                Socio-Economic Variables
         7D   Socio-Economic Projections by
                Zone
         9A   Internal Traffic Projections
         9B   Forecasts of Foreign Trade
                Movements by r-1ode
         9C   Potential Transit Traffic Through
                Bolivia



                    -vi-
         APPENDICES (continued)
Volume
  4        IDA   List of Candiate Projects
           llA   Vehicle Axle Load Measurement Program
           lIB   Costs of Betterment of Unpaved Roads
           llC   Highway Design Standards
           lID   Highway Capacity and Congestion
           lIE   Summary of Evaluations of Unpaved
                   Roads
           llF   Bridge Analysis
           llG        '" Seco-Desaguadero Highway
                 The R~o
           l2A   Analysis of New Penetration and
                   Feeder Roads
           l2B   Evaluation of the Santa Barbara-Bella
                   Vista Highway
           l2C   Evaluation of the Highway Eteramazama-
                   San Ignacio de Moxos
           l2D   Evaluation of the Ichilo-Mamore River
                   System Cleaning Project
           l2E   Evaluation of the Railroad from Rio
                   Grande to Trinidad
           l3A   Assumptions on the Costs of Railroad
                   Rehabilitation Projects
           l3B   Evaluation of Railroad Rehabilitation
                   Projects
           l6A   Analysis of Regulations on Road
                   Transport
           l6B   Organizational Structure and
                   Regulation of Water Transport
          17A    Projections of ENFE's Freight Operating
                   Costs and Revenues
          leA    Committed Highway Investments




                     -vii-
  CHAPTER 1

INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 1

INTRODUCTION
     In Bolivia's vast territory, problems of access and
communication have always been particularly acute. Large,
potentially productive regions remain unexploited, partly
because access to them is impossible or very difficult.
Where ways of communication do exist, they have often been
built to a low standard with the result that transport
costs are relatively high.
     There is no lack of ideas on how to improve the coun-
try's transport system, and many projects have been pro-
posed, some of which have been the subject of detailed
feasibility studies. Many of them, however, have never
become a reality, usually because there were no funds
available. Sometimes, the scarce funds were used on
projects of doubtful benefit, thus preventing more deserving
projects from being built. Thus, the problem is not only
to conceive "good" transport projects, but to establish
the "right" priorities for them.
     This Study aims to resolve the problem by identifying
those transport investments which are likely to be of
greatest benefit to the Bolivian economy. It also examines
the organizational and financial aspects of transport. The
resulting'proposals, together with the suggested investment
program, offer a new transport strategy recommended for the
1980's. The government, for reasons beyond the scope of this
technical study, may opt for certain solutions not recommended
in this Report. Should this be the case, however, the
Study's analyses will still be useful in quantifying the
economic costs of those solutions.
Background of Study
     The last major transport study in Bolivia was completed
in the late 1960's and gave valuable guidance on transport
investment and organization (1). There have been many
changes since then, both with regard to economic development
and transport characteristics, and it was therefore decided
to conduct another comprehensive analysis.

(1)   Estudio Inte ra1 de los Trans ortes en Bolivia (Bolivia
      Natl.ona1 Transport Study , prepared by Daniel, Mann,
      Johnson and Mendenhall; Stanford Research Institute;
      and Alan M. Voorhees and Associates for the Bolivian
      Government, the World Bank and UNDP, 1968.
                           -1-
      In October 1974, an agreement was signed between the
Bolivian Government and the United Nations Development
Programme to carry out such a study. Two phases were
specified. The first was to recommend a transport policy
and, among other things, to identify investment projects
suitable for international funding agencies such as the
World Bank. The second phase was to consist of technical
assistance to the Bolivian Government in implementing the
recommendations of Phase I.
     The World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development - IBRD) acted as Executing Agency for this
Project. In October 1978, it contracted Wilbur Smith and
Associates to carry out Phase I, and the Study commenced
in November 1978. The analyses and findings are described
in this Report.
Purpose and Scope of Study
     The work to be covered by the Study was detailed in
the Terms of Reference prepared by the World Bank in
consultation with the Bolivian Government. The basic
objectives were defined as follows:
      "The objectives of the transport survey (Phase I) are
       to provide the Government of Bolivia with a National
       Transport Master Plan for the development of a
       coordinated transportation system; to define the
       appropriate governmental and investment policies for
       each mode of transport, taking into account all              ,~
       existing modes in use in the country as well as those
       that might become feasible during the planning period;
       and to help strenghten DPC under MTCCA (2). The
       Master Plan shall take into account the country's
       future economic and financial capability. To achieve
       these objectives, the survey shall be carried out
       under these Terms of Reference and shall consist of:
          (i)   a review of recent studies;
         (ii)   the collection of all such data and any other
                information deemed necessary to prepare a
                master plan for the development of a coordi-
                nated transportation system, and the
                identification of major areas where data are
                insufficient;
        (iii)   reco~mendations for the strengthening of the
                DPC under the MTCCA, which is responsible for
=====-----
(2)   Directorate of Planning and Coordination under the Ministry
      of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics.


                          -2-
                the execution of intermodal transport studies
                and the preparation of transport sector input
                to the five-year plani including recommendations
                on its permanent staffing;
         (iv)   the identification and analysis of principal
                problem areas in the transport sector. The
                presentation of recommendations for procedures
                and methodologies for solving the problems,
                giving consideration to the technical,
                operational, planning, economic, coordination,
                organizational, administrative, managerial,
                financial, and training aspects of such
                problemsi
          (v)   a detailed highway maintenance program for
                1980-1989 (3);
         (vi)   a detailed transport investment and financial
                program for 1980-1989 (3);
        (vii)   an indicative transport investment and financial
                program for the period 1990-1999 (3);
       (viii)   reco~mendations for the improvement, if required,
                of the operations, planning, organization,
                administration and management of each transport
                mode; and
         (ix)   recommendations for the improvement, if required,
                of overall transport policies (including
                regulatory measures and transport pricing) and
                coordination among modes."
     The third of the above items refers to future transport
planning. Special emphasis was to be placed on the creation
of a group which would not only implement the Study's
recommendations in Phase II but also update its analyses and
give advice to government on transport matters in the years
thereafter. With this in mind, particular care had been
exercised in selecting a qualified and experienced counterpart
team of Bolivian professionals, and these were closely
integrated with the Consultants' team to participate in the
analyses and their presentation. Through this direct
contribution to the analyses under the Consultants' direction,
it is felt that an effective way was found to transfer the
transport planning technology to the counterpart team.

(3)   During the course of the Study, these periods were
      modified to 1981-1990 and 1991-2000, respectively.



                           -3-
Working Papers and Earlier Reports
     Apart from this Final Report, the Terms of Reference
stipulated the following four reports to be produced by the
Study:
    •   Inception Report
    •   Progress Report
    •   First Interim Report
    •   Second Interim Report.
     The Inception Report, published in December 1978,
presented a detailed work program for the Study, including
the basic definition of the transport model and of the
various surveys designed to provide the necessary data.
This was complemented in September 1979 by the Progress
Report, which elaborated the economic methods to be used
in the Study. It also reported on the results of a
Regional Planning Workshop held by the Study in June 1979
under the auspices of the Ministry of Planning and Coordi-
nation and the United Nations Development Programme. The
purpose of the workshop was to identify the possible
directions that economic development might take in Bolivia,
as a basis for the prediction of future transport demands.
     The First Interim Report was published in December 1979.
It described the various surveys conducted by the Study and
the socio-economic projections which form the basis of the
traffic forecasts for 1989 and 1999. It also discussed the
existing characteristics of each transport mode. The
Second Interim Report, published in July 1980, dealt
primarily with the development and initial application of
the transport model, but also discussed the program of
project evaluation.
     Working Papers - In a study of this Size, numerous
indivIdual analyses are made which contribute to the ultimate
findings. The calculations and results of these analyses
normally remain in files, inaccessible to persons outside the
Study team who wish to investigate them. In an attempt to
document the many individual Study analyses, approximately
60 working papers were published, containing descriptions,
calculations, tables and, in some instances, computer
printouts. Depending on the author, these papers were written
in either English or Spanish, but most of the English texts
were then translated into Spanish.




                         -4-
                        LA PAZ - COTAPATA
                        (LA CUMBRE)




ZONGO ROAD




                       LA PAZ - COTAPATA
                       (LA CUMBRE)




 ROADS IN MOUNTAINOUS TERRAIN
     The extent of these documents far exceeds what could be
covered in the Final Report, even in the Appendices which
have been taken mainly from the working papers. Appendix lA
lists those working papers that were published before the
completion date of the Final Report.
Structure of Final Report
     The Final Report aims to give a concise description
of the Study's criteria, evaluations and conclusions. The
appendices contain the most important background data and
a fairly detailed description of the computer transport
model. Throughout the Final Report, reference is made to
the working papers which contain the detailed background
data and analyses underlying the conclusions of the Study.
     The Report commences with a discussion of the basic
objectives of transport policy, followed by a chapter on
the Study methodology. The next chapters examine various
aspects of the transport system and the Bolivian economy.
Chapters 10 through 15 describe the evaluations made of
candidate projects, and these are followed by analyses of
the organizational and financial aspects of providing trans-
port services. Chapter 18 presents the transport invest-
ment program for the 1980s and the outline program for the
1990s. This is followed by the last two chapters which con-
tain a discussion of future transport planning in Bolivia
and a summary of the Study's conclusions and recommendations.




                        -5-
          CHAPTER 2

OBJECTIVES OF TRANSPORT POLICY
CHAPTER 2

OBJECTIVIES OF TRANSPORT POLICY
     Transport serves seven basic functions, which are briefly
discussed as follows:
     (1) Exploitation of Geographical Differences - Transport
enables the benefits of particular geographical situations to
be shared by people living in other situations. Few countries
have such a variety of geographical situations as has Bolivia.
Almost every type of crop can be grown, almost every kind of
mineral found, but transport is needed to exploit these rich
possibilities. Much of the natural wealth of the country
remains untouched and untouchable for lack of adequate
transport.
      (2) Specialization - One of the keys to economic
development is specialization, which is only possible if there
is a wide enough market. This often requires transport. In
particular, the advance from subsistence to commercial far~ing
can only be made if there is transport to a suitable market.
Similarly, the successful establishment of industry in La Paz,
Cochabarnba and Santa Cruz will be much easier if the three
cities form effectively a single market by virtue of good
transport connections.
     (3) Other Economies of Scale - Specialization is only
one way in which economies of scale can be achieved. Cheaper
transport widens the market for both outputs and inputs and
thus makes possible larger-scale units of production in both
industry and agriculture, with resulting economies of scale.
This is of great importance for the development of Bolivian
agriculture and processing industries.
      (4) Location of POEulation - An efficient and desirable
distribution of population is not possible without transport.
Bolivia is a large country with a small population, but the
majority of its people live on the Altiplano with little
opportunity for agricultural expansion. Enormous areas of
land are totally unused and unusable for lack of access. A
large part of the population lives on poor land while
elsewhere better land lies idle, partly for lack of transport.




                        -7-
                                                                   ".



      (5) Social Purposes - The development of social activities
and, in particular, the spread of ideas depend on transport of
people between different parts of the country, and to and from
other countries. Passenger transport between different
departments of Bolivia is relatively difficult or impossible,
except by plane, and is therefore ,largely confined to a small
minority because of the high cost involved.
     (6) Culture and Recreation - The higher levels of culture
and recreation depend on transport to bring people together.
There are great opportunities for recreational activities and
hence tourism in Bolivia, notably in the Andes, but they are
largely untouched, partly for lack of transport.
      (7) Political and Military Purposes - Government control
and national integration require a certain minimum of transport
facilities for passengers and goods. Such facilities are
lacking in some parts of the country, especially in Pando,
Beni and the eastern part of Santa Cruz department.
     These are the basic ways in which transport can enable
the community to use its territory productively and organize
itself effectively. The aim of transport policy should be to
develop and improve the transport system so that it can fulfill
these functions more efficiently. However, the priorities
among the objectives must be established in the country's
political process. This report focusses therefore on quantifying
aspects of transport economics and regional development, with
reference being made to other decision criteria where appro-
priate.
Use of Existing Infrastructure
     The first task of transport policy is to use existing
transport facilities to best advantage. This implies:
     An Economic Maintenance Policy - The method and
frequency of maintenance should be calculated to minimize
the overall cost of transport, i.e. the sum of vehicle
operating, track maintenance and investment costs, on each
link of the network. On both roads and railroads in Bolivia,
maintenance policies and in particular the balance between
maintenance expenditures and investment in new infrastructure
have not been decided very scientifically and could be
improved.

     Optimal Pricing Policies - The volume of traffic and
the choice of mode are influenced by tariffs. High tariffs
may impede economic development. In Bolivia, where distances



                        -8-
are long and transport is inevitably costly, tariff policy
could help or hinder the development of the country and, by
attracting traffic to the modes with lowest marginal costs,
could help to reduce the average costs of transport to the
community.
     Current tariffs are largely the product of a policy of
setting prices equal to average costs. Theoretically there
are advantages in setting them equal to marginal costs,
although in practice there may be difficulties in identifying
the marginal costs and in finding an acceptable method of
charging them. Despite the difficulties, however, it is
especially important in Bolivia, where there is ample spare
capacity at all times on practically the entire transport
infrastructure, not to suppress traffic and the activity
that it reflects by tariffs needlessly higher than the
marginal costs attributable to that traffic.
     Since tariff policy influences the volume of traffic on
individual transport links, it affects the benefits froIT
link improvements and hence the selection of investments.
It is an important part of transport policy and has been
treated as such in this Study.
     Regulation of Vehicles and Drivers - It is universally
accepted that questions of safety require regulation of
vehicle design and maintenance, and also of driving standards.
It should be considered whether Bolivian regulations are
adequate and effectively enforced, particularly in view of
the difficult and dangerous nature of many of the roads.
     Regulation of vehicle size and weight is also generally
accepted as desirable in order to prevent undue damage to
road surfaces and obstruction by oversize vehicles. It should
again be considered whether these regulations are well
conceived in economic terms, are sensibly applied to different
classes of road and are effectively enforced.
     The environmental effects of motor vehicles can in theory
be controlled by either economic disincentives or regulations.
Governments have generally chosen the latter. This problem
is less serious in Bolivia than in many other countries but
it may nevertheless require some attention.
     Social Subsidies - It may be considered desirable, for
non-economic reasons, to relieve isolated and remote
communities from some of the costs of transport. This may be
done by remission of taxes or by payment of grants towards
the provision of cheap and frequent services by bus, train or
plane.



                        -9-
Regulation of Operators

     The second main aspect of transport policy concerns the
efficient provision of transport services on the available
infrastructure, subject to the various charges and regulations
just discussed.  The basic objective is to obtain, as cheaply
as possible, services that match consumers' demand in terms
of frequency, convenience and reliability.  This is an area
in which private enterprise can work well, subject to certain
conditions.  The most important condition is the avoidance
of monopoly and, with it, price-fixing. Where traffic volumes
are reasonably large, this is normally not a problem; monopolies
are easily broken by allowing free entry into the industry.
But where traffic volumes are small, monopoly may flourish,
and this seems to be a- problem in Bolivia, particularly
in the trucking industry.  It may be desirable in such cases
to control rates and to take action against restrictive
practices by operators, as discussed in Chapter 16.

     Even where traffic volumes are large and real competition
among operators can be achieved, there is unending debate
about the need for regulation.  One must consider the case
for regulating (a) rates and fares, (b) entry into the
industry, (c) services offered, (d) service quality and (e)
coordination between different operators.  Other countries
vary from complete freedom to comprehensive regulation,
but the general trend today is towards deregulation on the
roads and in the air, for both passenqer and goods services.
On the railroads monopoly prevails amost everywhere, for
technological reasons, and necessitates a greater degree of
control, which is usually obtained by the simple expedient of
public ownership. But even there, in face of financial
losses and bureaucratic incompetence, there has been a
tendency to decentralize management and give greater freedom
to act commercially, i.e. to maximize profits.

     In Bolivia, as in many developing countries, there is a
tendency to think that transport services can best be provided
by public corporations or private monopolies under public
control. Established operators tend to ask for protection
against new competition, employing arguments about "excessive"
or "unfair" competition for this purpose.  One of the tasks
of the Study is to offer advice on these important policy
problems.  There is no way in which a particular policy on
competition can be proved the best.  One can only put forward
the arguments for and against, in the Bolivian situation, and
point to experience elsewhere.  This is an area where experience
and judgement are necessary.




                          -10-
Improvement of Transport Infrastructure
     Only when the existing infrastructure is well managed
and the services operating upon it are efficiently organized,
is one well placed to consider the possibilities of improving
and expanding it. For this purpose the use of cost-benefit
analysis is well established, though not without difficulties.
The justification of an infrastructure project, however, must
be influenced by the way in which the infrastructure is used
or misused. That is why it is logically desirable to determine
transport policies towards use and operation first before
turning to infrastructure policy.
      Clearly, much improvement in the infrastructure is
possible and desirable. The road network is rudimentary as
a network and generally of a very low standard. Huge areas
in the north and east are devoid of roads. There is no
practical limit to the amount of road construction and
improvement that one would like to see in Bolivia. On the
railroads there is the conspicuous gap between the Andean and
the Eastern systems, both of which are in a state where re-
habilitation is desirable. River transport is relatively
important in providing access to remote regions of the country,
but no port infrastructure has yet been provided. Lacking
direct access to the sea, Bolivia has two international river
outlets through the Paraguay and the Madera Rivers, but both
are very poorly connected with the rest of the transport system
and both are little used for the transport of Bolivian goods.
     Air transport is better developed than the other modes.
The network of airports reaches into many parts of Pando,
Beni and Santa Cruz departments that are not served, or only
very badly, by other modes. Even between cities relatively
well connected by road or rail, e.g. La Paz-Cochabamba-Santa
Cruz, air transport is the dominant means of carrying
passengers, because of the combination of terrain, distance
and conditions of the existing infrastructure. More remote
cities such as Tarija, Sucre and Trinidad are highly dependent
on air transport. Nevertheless, many airports need better
runways and navigation aids, and many of the aircraft in ser-
vice are old and dangerous in the light of current inter-
national flight safety standards. The air services themselves,
while giving extensive coverage of the country, are often of
low frequency, with only two or three flights a week.
     Thus a great deal of improvement is desirable, for both
economic and social objectives, but the cost would far exceed
the resources that could conceivably be obtained for the
purpose. The problem of choosing the best projects is not
easy_ As far as economic objectives are concerned, cost-



                       -11-
benefit analysis is able to give sensible conclusions. The
main policy difficulties arise over non-economic objectives
because they are more difficult to evaluate. Inevitably
there arise conflicts between the use of limited resources
for economic or non-economic objectives. In Bolivia a major
objective is national integration, which unfortunately
tends to conflict with the needs of the economy.
     The basic problem is to place values on non-economic
objectives, e.g. the connection of isolated communities or
the assistance to underprivileged sections of society.
Projects with such objectives may yield low economic returns;
the problem is to value their non-economic benefits. This
problem is no different from that of giving operating sub-
sidies for similar purposes. The best approach to the
problem is to show (a) the benefits expected in physical
terms, e.g. the numbers of people affected and the amount
of use they are likely to make of the facilities providedi
and (b) the opportunity cost, i.e. the alternative benefits
to be sacrificed to make this project possible. It is also
important to (c) ensure that cheaper ways of producing the
same or similar benefits are not neglected.
     The final assessment must be a political one, but often
a clear statement of the facts will point irresistibly
towards the right conclusion.




                        -12-
                                        YAPACANI




SANTA CRUZ· TRINIDAD
   (IN CONSTRUCTION)




                                        NEARMACHACAMARCA




                       RECENT BRIDGES
    CHAPTER 3

DATA COLLECTION AND
STUDY METHODOLOGY
CHAPTER 3

DATA COLLECTION AND STUDY METHODOLOGY
     The Study is divided into three logical and conventional
phases: first, an analysis of the current transport situation;
secondly, a study of the ways in which transport needs and
problems will probably develop in the next 20 years, and of
the options for improving the transport system to meet the
challenge; and thirdly, an evaluation of those options,
subject primarily to economic constraints, leading to
recommendations for structural and organizational improvements
to the system.

     In order to acquire a good knowledge of the transport
situation, inventories were built up of the infrastructure
roads, railroads, airports, ports and pipelines -- and surveys
were made of transport services and traffic on all modes.
Information was collected about the organization, regulation,
tariffs, costs and financial position of the state transport
authorities, and of private operators of trucks, buses,
aircraft and river boats.
     A computer model of traffic movements was constructed
from the data describing transport facilities, tariffs and
traffic, together with socio-economic data of population,
income, production, consumption, urbanization and foreign
trade, all distributed among 77 zones. The data concerning
goods movement, i.e. production, consumption and foreign
trade, were broken down into 39 categories of goods, selected
according to their transport characteristics. The purpose of
the model was to estimate the complex effects on traffic
movements that would result from future changes in transport
facilities and tariffs, or in the aforementioned socio-
economic characteristics of the country. A national transport
study is faced with an extremely large and intricate set of
variables which, through a complicated process of competition
and complementarity, produce the traffic pattern at a given
time. In order to estimate how this pattern would respond to
changes in either the transport system or the social and
economic situation, or both, a good model is invaluable; it
handles complexities beyond the capacity of any human brain
and makes massive calculations with far greater speed and
accuracy than any statistician. It permits the different
modes in every part of the country to be planned as a system
and ensures that traffic predictions on the system are logical
and consistent with the socio-economic activities that give
rise to the traffic.                                  .


                         -13-
     The second phase considered the likely development of
transport needs up to 1989 and 1999. As discussed in Chapter
7, forecasts were made of national population, income, pro-
duction, consumption and foreign trade, in the detail required
for the model. The possibilities and uncertainties of Bolivia
make forecasting a hazardous exercise, particularly as far
ahead as 1999. For this reason, three alternative develop-
ment patterns were produced for 1999.
     The ~odel was then used to predict the resulting traffic
on a minimum network in 1989, including only transport
improvements already committed. Thus were revealed the
deficiencies of the transport system, as they would emerge
in the future if only minimal improvements were made. In
order to plan an optimal program of improvements and
extensions, a large nu~ber of proposals were compiled from
allover the country and, after an initial process of
selection, were reduced to a list of projects meriting more
detailed costing and evaluation. Projections were made of
the budget likely to be available for such projects.
        The third phase of the Study evaluated the candidate
projects and policy proposals and arrived at conclusions.
The model was used to test an arrbitious network in 1989 with
t'\110 widely different sets of tariffs and in 1999 on a network
with further improvements. In the latter test the central,
most probable development pattern was used. The results
contributed towards the analysis of tariff policy and the
evaluation of projects. At the same time, investigation of
the organization and regulation of the transport industries
led to recommendations for reform. The evaluation of projects
was thus made in the light of proposals for a new tariff
policy and institutional regime.
     All the projects were evaluated first on their economic
merit, mostly by the conventional cost-saving method whereby
benefits to both existing and generated traffic are estimated
directly from reductions in transport costs. Most of the
evaluations were based on model results but some projects,
notably those affecting international links, were not included
in the model and were examined manually. A separate air model
was used to generate air passenger flows. Most road projects
were evaluated by the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards
(HDM) model, using traffic predictions from the main model.
In all cases, however, the evaluation depended on traffic
predictions and estimates of the costs of vehicle operation
and infrastructure maintenance, with and without the project.
The HDM model was also used to evaluate road maintenance
policies.
     Some projects entailed new extensions to the transport
network, notably penetration roads, on which.all or most of


                        -14-
the traffic would be newly generated. The cost-saving method
was not applicable to such projects and a producer surplus
method, which attempts to place a net value directly on the
economic activity reflected by the traffic, was used instead.
     Following economic evaluation, questions of regional dis-
tribution and social policy were considered before an invest-
ment program was drawn up. The final output of the Study, as
described in this report, thus consists of conclusions and re-
commendations on transport investment and maintenance, regula-
tion, organization and tariff policy. But, because of the
close relation between transport and economic activity, the
conclusions also imply a number of non-transport recommenda-
tions concerning land use, migration, farming methods and in-
dustrial development.
     The remainder of this chapter discusses the collection
of transport flow data, computer modelling and project evalua-
tion procedures.
Data Collection
     The data on existing transport and factors affecting
transport which were collected by the Study, fall into four
main groups. These are transport flows, infrastructure, costs
and tariffs, and socio-economic data. Information on these is
given in Chapters 9, 4, 5 and 7 respectively of this report. This
section deals with the procedures used to collect the data for
each of the transport modes and also the socio-economic data.
More detailed information on data collecting is available in the
Study's First Interim Report published in December 1979.
      Road Transport - Data on road transport flows were collec-
ted in an extensive roadside interview survey. The object of
the survey was to provide as complete a picture as possible
of passenger and freight movements. To achieve this the in-
terview sites were chosen so as to intercept all traffic leav-
ing or entering the departmental capitals, which generate most
of the long-distance traffic in the country, together with
sites at important intermediate junctions. The interview sites
selected are illustrated in Figure 3-1.
     The survey was conducted in two parts, from February 20
to March 27, 1979 during the wet season, and from June 5 to
25 (w~th the exception of Beni department which was surveyed
later) during the dry season. Usually the interviews covered
all traffic from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. for three days in each
season, although at some sites the interviewing was continued
for the whole 24-hour period. During the dry season the night-
time traffic was counted as most sites. The survey and data
coding procedures are detailed in Working Papers 1 and 2.


                          -15-
     The information collected in each interview, where applica-   •
able, was as follows:
     • Place, direction, date and hour of interview
     • Vehicle type
     • First number 6r letter of registration plate
        (indicating use of vehicle)
     • Origin and destination of trip
     • Purpose of trip
     • Service type of vehicle
     • Number of seats and passengers transported
     • Cargo capacity and quantity of cargo carried by type.
     These data were then coded and punched onto computer
cards. Each interview was then subjected to a set of checks
to ensure valid codes, e.g. commodity code between 1 and 69,
and logic, e.g. origin and destination compatible with inter-
view site and direction. Where errors we~e revealed, they
were, if possible, corrected for coding and punching mistakes
or, if necessary, rejected. At the end of this process
134,823 valid interviews had been obtained.         .
     Subsequently the interviews were factored to annual volumes
of 1977, the Study's base year. This process is described in
Working Paper 15, and the factors are summarized in Appendix 3A.
After the application of these factors, the data were used to
produce many matrices and tabulations used in the development
and calibration of the transport models.
     Additional data on road transport flows were obtained
from counts carried out by the National Road Service (SNC).
This organization has been conducting counts for many years
and produces annually a flow map showing movements over the
major road system. Their current program involves monthly
manual classified counts at 132 locations using personnel from
SNC sub-district offices (residencias). This program will be
greatly increased shortly when SNC will have available a large
number of automatic traffic counters to supplement the manual
counts.
     Largely to obtain information of transport operations,
extensive interviews were undertaken and discussions held
with trucking and intercity bus operators and with the agen-
cies responsible for the regulation of road transport ser-
vices. The data collection efforts concerned the following
items:
    •   Truck and bus operations, organization and regulation
    •   Function of transit check points
    •   Vehicle standards
    •   Vehicle import controls
    •   Transpor~ tariffs and costs.



                          -16-
t!ill: SurveYI    near Trinidad only f or dry lealon .                               LEGEND
         All other stationl refer to both wet and                                 INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                  BOUNDARY
         dry season survey campaions . In addition,
                                                                                  EXISTING ROAD
         dry season interviewl were conducted                                     SYSTEM
         at R iberalta and Guayaramerl n .                                    ~ . ROADSIDE
                                                                              ~ INTERVIEW STATION




                   ORURO
    Cruce Mochocomorco




                                                                                                                   ,I

                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                               ,,
                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                       /
                                                                            r--   --------1 "
                                                                        /                  ...   ..;

                                          ROADSIDE INTERVIEW STATIONS
 U)f,.IIu't fIlmil!. and .Aoaocialea                                                     FIGURE 3-1
      As well as road flow data, it was also necessary to col-
 lect and examine data on existing road infrastructure. The
 basis for this was a road inventory conducted by SNC which at
 the start of the Study existed only for the districts of La
 Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, but has since been completed
 for the whole country. This inventory was used as the basis
 for much of the input required by both the main model system
 and the HDM model, described later in this chapter.

      To check and complement this work, two other surveys were
 conducted by the Study. The first was a check on the accuracy
 of the SNC inventory on a sample basis, the results of which
 are described in Working Paper 5. This was done by members of
 the Study team visiting the SNC survey teams while the invento-
 ry was being carried outi also, checks were made in the field
 for those areas for which the inventory was complete. The
 second survey was a windshield survey primarily to establish
 travel times required for the highway network, but also used
 to check several of the items in the SNC inventory.

       Rail Transport - The collection of rail flow data did
  not require the extensive effort needed for road transport •
. This was because the National Railroad Company (ENFE) records
  an increasing amount of its flow information on computer tapes.
  Discussed in Working Paper 17 and summarized in Appendix 3B,
  these tapes gave full 1977 freight movements for the Andean
  system, freight movements for the Eastern system and passenger
  movements for the Andean system for 1978, which with other data
  provided by ENFE could be factored back to 1977. Eastern system
  passenger flows were taken from manual records since this infor-
  mation had not then been introduced to the computer system.
     River Transport -  Data on river transport freight move-
ments were obtained from records kept at the major river ports
by the Bolivian Navy (FNB). These records indicate the ori-
gin, destination and commodity class for freight movements.
In a similar manner to the processing of the road data, the
information was coded, punched on cards and edited before
matrices and tabulations were produced.

     In order to obtain data on boat    operations on the Ichilo-
Mamore river system, a questionnaire    survey, combined with a
field inspection, was carried out by    the Study during March
and June 1979. The data represent a     summary of boat operations
and conditions including:

     •   Boat characteristics
     •   Financing conditions
     •   r.1aintenance
     •   Taxes
     •   Salaries
     •   Origin/Destination patterns.

                            -17-
     Air Transport - The majority of domestic air passengers
are carried by the national airlines LAB and TAM, and data on
their flows were made available to the Study for analysis.
      The majority of domestic freight movements are carried
by the non-regular air services. Detailed flight records         .
                                                                 '
were obtained from the Ministry of Transport, and these were
processed through the computer in a similar way to the road
data.
     Pipelines - The pipeline system of Bolivia is operated
by the National Hydrocarbons Company (YPFB), and all data
on the origins, destinations and quantities of the pipeline
flows were obtained directly from that company.
     Foreign Trade - The foreign trade flows were treated
separately both in the data collection and the subsequent
analyses. The source for these data was a set of computer
tapes, provided by the National Statistics Institute (INE).
These tapes gave information, on both exports and .imports,
about the origin and destination inside and outside Bolivia
and about the nature of the commodity and the weight of the
movement. The flows were aggregated to the Study's zone
system and commodity classes and tabulated for use in the
analyses.
     Socio-economic Data - Existing socio-economic profiles
and future projections constitute one of the principal inputs
into the transport model. Thus the collection of these items
was one of the key tasks of the Study. The principal data
sources were reports and other documents provided by various
Government ministries and agencies, but these were supplemen-
ted by various surveys and analyses described in this section
and, in more detail, in Appendix 3C.
      The regional development corporations which are situated
in the departmental capitals formed one major source. The
method of data collection was a questionnaire survey followed
up by visits to each of the corporations by a survey team.
The items collected for each province within the department
were:
     •   Agricultural production
     •   Livestock production
     •   Mining and oil production
     •   Manufacturing production
     •   Future development plans.
     A further set of questionnaires, followed by interviews,
were sent to 22 major public and private enterprises. These



                           -18-
 THE RIO GRANDE RAil BRIDGE
AT PUERTO PAlLAS NEAR SANTA CRUZ
included such bodies as the National Mining Company (COMIBOL),
the National Hydrocarbons Company (YPFB) and the Secretariat
of Integration. From these enterprises much information was
obtained on transport as well as socio-economic characteristics.

     To obtain data on private manufacturing, a sample of 88
companies covering each industrial branch was visited by an
interviewer from the Study team. The questions asked included
the type and amount of production and inputs, the distribution
of goods, and information on transport modes used.
     As over half of the total consumption of goods in Boli-
via consisted of agricultural products, it was obviously vital
to make special efforts in this area.  In the face of this
situation, the assistance of the Bolivian Institute of Agricul-
tural Technology (IBTA) and of the Ministry of Agriculture was
requested.  The latter promised the cooperation of the provin-
cial extension agents in carrying out a survey.  The survey
forms consisted of an eight-page questionnaire complemented
by a brochure explaining the survey procedures as documented
in Working Paper 11.  In order to check the accuracy of the
replies, they were compared against the data previously re-
ceived from the regional corporations and data provided by
the Ministry of Agriculture at a departmental level. From
the available data , a consistent set was selected and used
for the development of agricultural production and consumption
by analysis zone.

     Another type of data required for input to the transport
models was population and employment for each analysis zone.
The former of these had been published by lNE from the results
of the 1976 national census. For the latter, although the
information had been collected in the census, it had not been
processed or published. However, the computer tapes contain-
ing the data were made available to the Study to derive these
figures independently, which is described in detail in Work-
ing Paper 16.

Transport Model System

     The object of the transport model system is to predict,
in a logical and consistent manner, how transport flows will
be affected by changes in population, income, production, con-
sumption, transport infrastructure and transport tariffs.   To
this end, a complex series of computer models have been de-
signed, built and calibrated for use in Bolivia. This section
gives a brief overview of the model system which is described
in greater detail in Working Paper 52 and Appendix 3F of this
report.




                         -19-
     The transport model system is composed of a freight
model and a passenger model, which operate separately on the
various input parameters, but which together give a total
picture of flows on the transport facilities of the country.
     It was designed to represent movements which take place
wholly within Bolivia. The analysis of foreign trade move-
ments was undertaken separately and is described in Chapters
9 and 15.
     Analysis Zones - An important simplification in the
model system is the concept of the analysis zone. As illus-
trated in Figure 3-2 and defined in detail in Appendix 3D,
the country was divided into 77 zones for which all parameters
are aggregated. Thus for each zone, population, income, pro-
duction and consumption are defined and all transport activity
associated with that zone is assumed to begin or end at one
point within the zone. The model is limited to the prediction
of traffic between these zones, rather than between each possi-
ble origin and destination in the country.
     In defining the analysis zones, the following five
criteria were observed:
    (i)   The zones should be relatively homogeneous in
          respect to the current production patterns and
          future development prospects.
   (ii)   They should contain sufficient population and
          productive capacity to generate and attract
          significant volumes of traffic in goods and
          persons.
  (iii)   Zone boundaries should follow the borders of the
          administrative units on the basis of which
          statistics of population, employment and pro-
          duction are maintained.
   (iv)   Zone boundaries should conform to natural local
          trading, agricultural or industrial areas.
    (v)   The total zone system should reasonably reflect
          the significant variations in the configuration
          of the country's transport system and actual
          traffic flows.




                        -20-
                                                             •     ZONE       CENT ROID



                                                             47    ZONE       NUMBER




                                                       \   ~~~ <' <

                                                                   l_~
                                                                  70                                      •              dl




         o
          ()




                                                                                                          :-­
               1)

               \)
                                                                                       ,            c

                                                                                                                 L
                                                                                 V
                ()
                                                             ~
                                                                   \)
                                                                          "                V
                                                                          -
                                                                          ~
                                                                                 V>                             :.~-.(
                                                                                               (>
                                                                                                    '"'           \
                                                                                       ~
                                                                               ~
                     ()                                                 r-
                     o
                                                 T I ;"J A




                                ANALYSIS ZONES

%11"" [jImil/' and Jiuociale6                                                                                         FIGURE 3-2
     Freight Model System - The object of these models is to
predict freight flows by road, rail, river and pipeline, both
in terms of tons and vehicles. The freight movements are de-
rived separately for each of 39 commodity groups, which are
defined in Appendix 3E and further discussed in Chapter 7.
As shown in Figure 3~3, the sequence of the model system is:

    •    Freight network model
    •    Freight distribution model
    •    Freight modal allocation model
    •    Vehicle model
    •    Assignment model.

These are described below.

     Freight Network Model - This model has two basic inputs
which are a transport network description and a set of trans-
port tariffs and cost data. The network defines, in numerical
terms, the transport infrastructure to be considered. Thus
it will include the major roads, railroads, rivers and pipe-
lines of the country, with a specification of their relevant
physical characteristics, e.g. length, surface type, width
and alignment for roads. The transport costs are then assigned
to each part of the network, in general, as a function of
physical characteristics.

     The most important part of this model is the creation of
paths or routes through the network from each zone to every
other zone. Several sets of paths are built corresponding to
the different modes available. These paths have two useSj
firstly in the assignment model described later, and secondly
in the calculation of zone-to-zone costs and times which are
used in the subsequent three models.

     Freight Distribution Model - The object of this model is
to link the production and consumption of goods, specified
for each zone and commodity class, into zone-to-zone tonnage
movements. The manner of the linkage is a function of the
zone-to-zone costs produced by the network model and the par-
ticular commodity class. The following three submodels are
used to accomplish this process:

     •   Cost minimization submodeli
     •   Cost independent submodel~ and,
     •   Gravity submodel.




                           -21-
     The choice of which submodel to use for any commodity
                                                                     ,
class was made on the basis of which was found to best
represent the observed flows. The cost minimization submodel
is best suited for commodities containing one type of rela-
tively uniform product, such as wheat, cement or fertilizers.
It minimizes transport cost involved in distributing the
commodity, i.e. the matrix T .. is chosen such that
                                         1.)

      n        n
      r
     i=l
               r:
              j=l
                         T ..
                          1.)
                                 d .. is a minimum and
                                  1.)



      n                                  n
     L
     i=l
              T .. = C.
               1.)        )
                                and     r:::
                                       j=l
                                               T .. = P.
                                                1.)    1.



     Where:    T .. = Tonnage flow from zone i to zone j
                1.)
               d .. = Cost from zone i to zone j
                1.)
               C.       = Consumption in zone j
                   )

               P.       = Production in zone i
                   1.
               n        = Number of zones.
     The cost independent submodel distributes flows in such
a manner that each destination zone receives, accordinq to the
level of consumption, its proportional share of the production
in the origin zone. This model is suitable for the commodity
group encompassing vehicles and transport equipment, which
consists of a number of discrete products. Each of these is
produced in only one zone, and the relative proportion of
their consumption is reasonably constant in all zones. The
mathematical formulation is:
                     P.1.
                          x C.
                             )
             T .. =    n
              1.)     r     Pk
                     k=l

     Where P k = Production in zone k, and the other variables
                 are as shown before.

     In the gravity submodel, tonnage flows are distributed      :-r::
between zones according to a probability function of cost
which decreases as cost increases. Thus if the cost between




                                      -22-
 NETWORK


      I
            TRANSPORT
                     MODEL

            TARIFF AND
            COST   DATA                   I                                             FREIGHT
                                                                                        NETWORK
                                                                                                                                 PRODUCTION AND
                                                                                                                                   CONSUMPTION
                                                                                                                                      DATA
                                                                                                                                                       I
                      '.j


                                                  ,                                ROUTE CHOICE
                                                                                                 t
                                                                                       MODEL




                                                               RAIL FAVORED
                                                                                    t                 t
                                                                                                      ROAD         PATHS
                                                                   PATHS

                                                                                        ,
                                      ,
                                                                        ,-l/

                                                                        r
                                                           RAIL PARAMETER
                                                                                                      I        t
                                                                                                     ROAD PARAMETER
                                                                                                                                           'V

                                                              MATRICES                                  MATRICES
                                                                                                 ,    "-       I
                                                                                         /'
                                                                                            "-
                                                                                                      r        t
                                                                                                       MINIMUM
                                                                                                      TAR IFF ICOST
                                                                                                        MATRICES

     , '"    .
 DIST.RIBUTION
                 .. . . . , ... ......... ................ ........ .. " .........
                            ~




                                MODELS
                                              ~




                                                                                                      ·······t···········, .
                                                                                                           DISTRIBUTION
                                                                                                              MODEL        H- DEPOT  CONVERSIONI
                                                                                                                               ! IF REQUIRED I
                                                                        ,l-

                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                     FLOW MATRICES
                                                                                                     BY COMMODITY                                            '-v
     .. ............................. .............
:MOD AL      ALLOCATION MODEL
                                                  ~
                                                                                · . . . ·. ·. . ········ . . ··t·· ..........................................
            EXCESS TIME                   I                                 ,
                                                                           .-
                                                                                                             MODAL
                                                                                                           ALLOCATION
                                                                                                             MODEL
     I         COSTS
                                          I
                                                                                   RAIL TONNAGE
                                                                                   FLOW MATRICES
                                                                                                     + +              ROAD TONNAGE
                                                                                                                      FLOW MATRICES
                                                                                                                                       I        /
                                                                                                                                                "-



     .................................................... ····t·· . ·. . ·. ··· ·. ··· . ·. ·. ·t· . ·. . ·. · · · . . . . . .
: VEHI CLE         MODELS
                                                                                                                                                         ,   ,~   ..

                                                                                     RAIL WAGON                               RUCK              /
                                                                                                                                                 ...

                                                                                    ......+....                                        I
                                                                                      MOVEMENTS                        MOVEMENTS

      ..... . .........
: ASSIGNMENT            MODEL
                                ".   .... .....       .   ..   . ...    .. ...

                                                                                      VEHICLE
                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                       EMPTY TRUCK
                                                                                     ASSIGNMENTS            ~           MOVEMENTS




                                                                       FREIGHT TRANSPORT MODELS

                                                                                                                                                    FIGURE 3-3
a zone pair is decreased by a transport improvement, the
probable movement size increases. The formulation is:

                           C. x F(d .. )
                            )            1)
     T ..       P.
      1)    =    1




     Where:      T .. , d .. , C., P., n are as before
                     1J         1J   1        1
                 F    =    Distribution probability function.

     The gravity submodel in effect supposes that a commodity
may sometimes be transported extreme distances, from a pro-
duction unit to the furthest consumption zone, but that
cheaper (shorter) journeys are more likely. With this sub-
model, the output of a production zone is mostly transported
to neighboring zones, with diminishing (though non-zero)
quantities being distributed to zones further away. The
value of this submodel is chiefly that is represents a com-
promise between the two extreme situations covered by the
two submodels described earlier. It applies to such mixed
commodity groups as fruit, beverages, textiles and machinery.

     Freight Modal Allocation Model - The object of this model
is to allocate the zone-to-zone flows produced by the distri-
bution model between the modes available to carry that flow.
The basis of the allocation are the relative costs for each
mode as derived from the network model.

     The method used is first to calculate the cost ratio be-
tween the two modes being split and subsequently allocate a
percentage to each mode based on diversion curves derived from
observed data. The cost ratio is defined as:
                                                Cl
                           Ratio = C          + 0 + D + E + F
                                          2

     Where:               = Cost of zone-to-zone trip by first mode
                            (e.g. road)
                          = Cost of zone-to-zone trip by second mode
                            (e.g. rail)
                          = Cost to reach second mode in origin zone
                            (e.g. a road trip to railhead)
                 D        = Cost from second mode to destination zone
                            (e.g. a road trip from railhead)
                 E        = Cost of excess time of second mode over
                            first mode
                 F        = Factor applied to average curves to give
                            commodity specific curves.




                                     -23-
                                                                      .
     The diversion curves for the allocation of agricultural
and non-agricultural products between road and rail are shown
in Figure 3-4. Their derivation, which is based on the results
of the roadside interview survey and ENFE's computerized
records of 1977 flows, is discussed in Appendix 3F.
     Vehicle Model - The model converts the mode-specific
zone-to-zone tonnage flows into vehicular flows. Thus for
road flows, the tonnages are converted into movements of
loaded trucks of three diffe~ent sizes, the proportions de-
pending on the zone-to-zone journey times derived from the
network model. Empty truck volumes are estimated based on
loaded truck movements to give total truck flows. Rail
tonnages are converted directly into wagon loads using
commodity specific factors. Thus, there are the following
three submodels:
     •   Loaded truck submodeli
     •   Empty truck submodel; and,
     •   Rail wagon submodel.
     The loaded truck submodel converts tonnages of zone-to-
zone road flows into zone-to-zone truck flows. The basis of      , ''Il
the method is a set of curves, derived from the results of
the roadside interview survey, which relate trip length to
the number of small, medium and large trucks required to
carry the tonnage. Factors are also applied to the curves
for each individual commodity group, as detailed further in
Appendix 3F.
     The empty truck submodel adds empty truck movements to
the full truck movements. The method assumes that total
truck movements between any zone pair are symmetrical, and
so the first part of this submodel adds the required number
of empty trucks to the direction of zone-to-zone flows which
is lower. The second part complements this by a number of
additional empty trucks, according to a formula derived from
the roadside survey. The formulation is:
                            (FAB x FBA}q



     Where:          = Number  of additional empty truck
                        movements from zone A to zone B of a
                        particular truck size
                      = Number of loaded truck movements from
                        zone A to zone B of that truck size      '.
                      = Travel time from zone A to zone B        1<

              p, q, r = Constants determined by regression
                        analysis.


                          -24-

                                                                 ;,
                                                                                       I""'"



                                                    I
                                                        ~r-    ._- f--
                                                                            PEf CE~ T
                                                                             R "'IL



                                                                                       I"","    ._-.-- ~---~ ...Q[HER "_"_         ~. i
                                                                                                                                        l7     GRI~1I1 TIJRF



                                                                                 i



                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                V
                                                             --~.   - i - - ,-          "'"

                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                       1-
                                                                            ,                               .......




                            --~.---       --.----
                                                             I
                                                              I
                                                                                        AI'!




                                                                                               V
                                                                                                Ir                                       ---




                                                                                       V                              I                              I

                                                              I
                                                                  v 1)--- -          J  .r.
                                                                                       1--
                                                                                                                      !
                                                                                                                          ------       ----~\--
                                                                                                                                                     I



                                                              v v           j..o' ~
                                                                                       ~                                                       I
                                                               ~
                                                                     ~
             .1                      .2         .3      .4   .5     .6    .7.8.9 I                                2                3           4     5         10
                                                                                     RO A 0    / R A I Leo ST             RAT 10




                                                                  MOOAL ALLOCATION DIVERSION CURVES
Ci)it'l~Ui flmilh and .A66oct'ale6
                                                                                                                                                                    FIGURE 3-4
     The ~ail wagon submodel converts rail tonnages into rail
wagon flows, by applying commodity specific load factors to
each tonnage flow.  These factors were derived from 1977
ENFE statistics reporting wagon movements and tonnage flows
by commodity.

     Assignment Model - This model takes the zone-to-zone
vehicle flows produced by the vehicle model and assigns them
to the routes estimated by the network model. The accumula-
tion of all movements using a particular road or rail sec-
tion gives the total freight vehicle flow on that section.
Alternatively, the tonnage movements output by the modal
allocation model may be input, which would result in tonnage
flows on each section of infrastructure included in the
network.

     Passenger Model System - The modelling concepts used
for passengers are very similar to those described above
for freight.  There are three sets of models in this system
which are as follows:

     •   Surface public transport (bus and rail);
     •   Private vehicles; and,
     •   Air.
     Each has its own network model with representations of
the available infrastructure, services and costs. Upon
this, a model was derived for each by regression analysis,
which predicts zone-to-zone passenger flows as a function of
zonal income and trip costs. In the case of surface public
transport, these flows are then allocated to either bus or
rail services. The subsequent stages of the passenger model
are an assignment of passenger flows, an estimation of vehicle
movements and an assignment of these. The passenger vehicle
flows (buses and private vehicles) are then added to the
freight vehicle flows to give total traffic on each network
section to be used in the evaluation.

     The surface public transport model predicts volumes of
bus passengers, buses and rail passengers. The total passenger
flow between each zone pair is determined by the following
basic equation:
                          FL   = lOa   x A + b x B +   C   x C + d

     Where:   FL   =   Annual passenger flow between a zone pair
              A    = Logarithm of minimum travel cost between
                       the zones  (either road or rail)
              B    =   Logarithm of total GDP in the origin zone
              C    =   Logarithm of total GDP in the destination
                       zone
         a,b,c,d   =   Constants determined by regression analysis.

     The resulting annual passenger flow is then split into a
rail flow and a bus flow in a similar manner to freight flows,
i.e. by using a diversion curve which gives, as a function of
the modal cost ratios, the percentage using each mode.

                                -25-
     The mathematical expression to estimate private vehicle
flows has a similar structure as the previous equation. How-
ever, travel cost is replaced by travel time and GDP by urban
population, as these parameters were found to give better
results in representing base year flows.
     A two-phase model was developed for air passenger trans-
port. The first part estimates passenger flows based on a
regression analysis, while the second part adjusts flows
according to the flight frequency between zone pairs. The e-
quation is expressed as follows:
              FL   =    lOaxA + bXB + c-C + dXD + e

     Where:        FL    = Annual air passenger flow between a
                           zone pair
                   A     = Logarithm of trip cost
                   B     = Logarithm of travel time difference
                             between surface public transport and air
                 C       =   Logarithm of total GDP in origin zone
                 D       =   Logarithm of total GDP in destination zone
     a, b, c, d, e       =   Constants determined by regression analysis.



     The second part of the model adjusts the number of
passengers on each link as deduced from this formula.   It was
observed that on high frequency routes the regression model
underestimated traffic for the base year, while overestimating
flows for low frequency routes. Thus, a curve was drawn up
linking the ratio of actual to regressed trips against fre-
quency, and applied to the results of the first part of the
model. This is discussed further in Appendix 3F, together
with other aspects of the passenger model system.

     Use of the Models - The models are used in two dif-
ferent phases, firstly, the calibration phase, and secondly,
the predictive phase.
                                                                            ,,
     The calibration phase is applied to the Study's base
year, for which estimates of production, consumption, in-
come and transport tariffs are known. Also known are the
transport flows resulting from these data. Thus in this
phase the various model parameters are adjusted until an
adequate representation of the observed flows is reproduced.

     In the predictive phase, the model is applied using the
socio-economic and cost parameters estimated for the forecast
years. Moreover, several network alternatives can be "tested",
i.e. the model calculates the transport flows that would re-
sult from the implementation of several assumed network                     ."
improvements. The flows estimated by the model for 1989 and
1999 are presented in Chapter 9.


                                -26-
     Model Calibration - As appropriate, model functions were
calibrated to represent as closely as possible current trans-
port characteristics. In the gravity distribution model, for
instance, the probability function F shown in the previously
described formula had to be calculated. Subsequently, several
components of the model system were validated against data
observed for the base year.
     In the case of the distribution model, the total tonnages
surveyed to enter and leave the seven southern department
capitals were compared against the values estimated by the
model. Overall, the model results were within 4 percent of
observed flows, but showed a certain overestimation in the
cities with low tonnages.

     The results of the modal allocation model were validated
against the detailed rail transport statistics available by
commodity group. The model estimated an overall rail tonnage
which was one percent above actual flows. With regard to
ton-kilometers, the model results were four percent high.
     The final validation of the freight model system
consisted in the comparison of the results from the vehicle
model against observed truck and rail wagon movements.
Except for certain discrepancies encountered at two low-
volume locations and at Santa Cruz where the dense road
traffic in the immediate environs cannot be well represented
by a national transport model, the truck model results were
within one percent of observed flows. With regard to rail
wagon movements, the model estimate was within 1.3 percent
of ENFE's records.
     The conclusion is that the freight model system
represents very well current transport characteristics.
The validation of the passenger model yielded somewhat
inferior results, with an overall underestimation of bus
movements by 13 percent and of private vehicle movements
by 18 percent. For the purposes of the this Study, however,
the passenger model is deemed adequate, considering that
freight flows are the principal factor in justifying
potential transport improvements. A more detailed description
of the model calibration is contained in Appendix 3F.
Project Evaluation
     An evaluation is an attempt to predict the net value
to the community of following one course of action rather
than another. It recognizes the existence of alternatives,
one of which is always the possibility of "doing nothing".




                         -27-
The purpose is to discover which of the alternatives is most
likely to produce the greatest net benefit to the community
as a whole. Although there can be difficulties in deciding
exactly how to value (or weight) different kinds of benefit
accruing to different classes of people, the general aim is
clear, and in this Study the predominant aim is to estimate
the economic benefits and costs affecting society as a whole.
Questions of political expediency lie outside the scope of
the Study.
     Technically, an evaluation is a comparison of two alter-
native courses of action. There may be more than two alter-
natives, in which case they can be evaluated in pairs until
they can be placed on a scale of net benefit relative to one
which is chosen as a benchmark. The evaluation compares the
alternative courses over a long period of time, as long as
may be relevant, but this is usually done by examining the
situation in two or more single years and interpolating and/
or extrapolating for the other years. Hence one carries out
single-year evaluations as part of an overall evaluation.
     Costs and Benefits - Four items affecting cost or benefit
enter into every evaluation:
    (i)   Capital costs, most commonly costs of construction.
   (ii)   Differences in unit transport costs of all affected
          movements by all available modes and vehicle types.
  (iii)   Traffic volumes on all affected links, with and with-
          out the project, by mode and vehicle type.                ,    .~




   (iv)   Annual maintenance costs on the affected parts of
          the infrastructure, with and without project. These
          costs depend partly on the volumes of traffic.
      These four items normally include all the costs and be-
nefi ts that need to be :rreasured. They provide an indirect, but
logically good way of measuring most of the net costs and
benefits proceeding from a transport project.--rlt should be
noted that many benefits are exactly offset by costs else-
where and therefore do not need to be measured). Other net
costs and benefits, however, can arise in particular cases,
e.g. environmental costs, changes in accidents, and effects
on the national balance of payments. Where these are impor-
tant, they are taken into account in the final judgement of
the project. There are also, of course, non-economic impacts,
e.g. political and social effects, which may be important and
are assessed after the economic evaluation.                         "
     The Cost-saving Method of Evaluation - Except for evalua-
tions where the differences in unit transport costs are re-
latively large, the conventional cost-saving method is used.
The impact of a transport investment takes place over a long
period of years and must be evaluated accordingly. In prac-
tice this normally means that the impact has to be examined
first at two or more points in time by calculating single-
year rates of return; then a way must be found to take account
of the whole life of the project, resulting in an internal rate
of return (IRR) and a net present value (NPV).
                           -28-                                     .>
                          LA PAZ - CARANAVI
                          (NEAR COROICO)




FEEDER ROAD
NEAR SAPECHO




                             END OF THE GUABIRA - CHANE
                             ROAD




         WOODEN BRIDGES
     The first step is to evaluate the impact of the project
in a single year. This is done by the following simple for-
mula in which two alternative situations, X and Y, are com-
pared, Y requiring more investment than X:
                      Bn - M
    ARn         = _-:-:-_-11_
                          K
where AR              = annual rate of return, in year n, on capital cost K,
                  n
        M         = cost of maintaining infrastructure in situation Y,
            n         less that in situation X, in year n,
        K         = capital cost of Y less capital cost of X, compared
                    to year n,
        B
         n

        B         = annual net traffic benefit, Y over X, year n, to
            nm      vehicle class m.

                  =   1
                      2
                          (C
                               nm
                                    - C'
                                           nm
                                                )   (Q
                                                         nm
                                                              + Q'
                                                                     nm
                                                                          )


        C         = unit cost of transport, vehicle class m, in situa-
            nrn       tion X, in year n

            nm= tion Y, in year n
    C'          unit cost of transport, vehicle class m, in situa-


        Qnm= volume of traffic, vehicle class m, in situation X,
             year n
    Q'            = volume of traffic, vehicle class m, in situation Y,
         nm         year n


      ARn can thus be calculated from the four sets of data
described above.
     The overall rate of return on the investment is estimated
over its expected life or 25 years from commencement of con-
~ction,   whichever is less, by means of the IRR and the NPV.
These two conventional measures are defined as follows:
        IRR is the value of r that satisfies the following equa-
tion:




                                                     -29-
where n is the year measured from 1980, and N is the total
number of years considered.                                               ''Ii


     NPV equals:

              N
              L
             n=l

where i = marginal rate of return. Values of i were con-
sidered between six and twelve percent. A case study of pro-
ject evaluation following the cost-saving method is given in
Appendix 3G. The method of evaluating a new transport mode
to be added in a corridor already served by transport is            ..,
described in Appendix 3H.
     The Producer Sur Ius Method of Evaluatic" , Khere the           "


difference in unit transport costs Cnm - C nm' is h~gh, or
infinite in some cases, the cost-saving method is not valid.
These cases occur when a penetration road or so~c other new
transport facility gives access to an area formerly extremely
inaccessible. Before the project there is no traffic, or
very little, and therefore no production except for local con-
sumption, if indeed there are any inhabitants. After the
project there is traffic, which of course is generated traf-
fic and reflects production generated by the o~~~=tu~~ty to
transport it to the market. The producer surplus method at-
tempts to estimate the net gain (or profit) frorr. such generated
production after deducting all relevant costs including other
investment costs and transport costs to the market.
     This estimate of producer surplus is in effect ~ direct
estimate of the value represented by generated traffic which,
in the cost-saving method, is estimated indirectl7 f~~~ the
reduction in transport costs.
     In principle the benefits thus estimated as producer
surplus can be inserted as B in the evaluation formula.
                            n
     Project Specification - Each candidate project, i.e. a
project selected for evaluation, was systematically ~ ,ccified
on a project specification sheet giving the following informa-
tion: brief description, location specifying nodes and dis-
tances, traffic speeds and link lengths before and after pro-
ject, traffic volumes in 1977, construction time, construc-
tion costs (by year if construction takes more than ~ne year),
infrastructural maintenance cost before and after pr~ject,
and unit transport operating costs before and after project in
1977, 1989 and 1999. More details on project specifications
are given in Working Paper 93.

                         -30-
                                                                    Ii'
      Specification of Evaluations - Since an evaluation is
a comparison of two, and only two, alternative situations,
the final evaluation of a project may require several indi-
vidual evaluations if there are more than two alternatives.
Also, after an evaluation, it may be desirable to modify the
project in some way, or to change the land-use assumptions,
and make another evaluation. Each evaluation must therefore
be clearly defined as to the two situations being compared.
HDM Model and Highway Analysis
     The highway analysis was concerned with three classes
of roads:
        (i)   New roads, where no link previously existed
       (ii)   Existing feeder roads
      (iii)   Other roads.
     The new roads defined for evaluation were mostly in the
underdeveloped regions of the country. Although such links
were included in the transport model networks, the predicted
volumes using these links were, as expected, very low. The
key to the evaluation of these links was the producer sur-
plus analysis described earlier.
     There are many thousands of kilometers of existing feeder
roads in the country ranging from scarcely used tracks to im-
portant access roads to agricultural areas. With the help of
the National Road Service, the main feeder roads in each region
were identified and an assessment made of their importance, and
of the costs of maintenance and improvement. This was largely
an exercise based on judgement and was not carried out to the
same level of detail as the other road analyses.
     The analysis of the 12,460 km of the basic road system,
i.e. roads coded in the computer transport network, was car-
ried out using the World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model (HDM) (1) based on traffic forecasts estimated
by the main transport model. The function of the HDM model
is outlined below, followed by a description of the work pro-
gram using the model.




(1)     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM),
        Transportation, Water and Telecommunications Department,
        World Bank, Washington, USA, June 1979, revised January
        1980.



                            -31-
     The HDM Model - The HDM model simulates the life of a
road, taking into account the growth in traffic, the deterio-
ration of the road due to environment and traffic, and the
maintenance operations performed on the road. The impact
of these factors on vehicle riding characteristics is then
assessed and hence the effect on vehicle operating costs.
Other costs, such as construction costs, can also be input.
Year by year costs· of construction, maintenance and vehicle
operations are calculated by the model and these are depen-
dent on such specified inputs as traffic mix, road charac-
teristics and maintenance policies. Alternative situations
can be compared in the model. Hence it is possible to speci-
fy a series of policies for such things as maintenance, road
construction or vehicle size, and compare the total cost of
highway transport in each case.
     Work Program Using the HDM Model (Where Appropriate) -
The relationships between road design, road maintenance and
the costs of vehicle operations are described in Working
Paper 109 and summarized in Figure 3-5. Based on these
relationships, the following program of work was defined:
      (i)   Highway Characteristics - Existing highways were
            categorized by geometric alignment characteris-
            tics. Also, new road designs were analyzed to
            identify the relationship between design standards
            and the resulting geometric characteristics. Ter-
            rain type was an important consideration.
    (ii)    Axle Load and Pavement Designs - Alternative pave-
            ment design policies were analyzed to identify the
            optimum. The effects of high axle loads on pave-
            ment deterioration were also analyzed in order to
            formulate policies on permissible vehicle types
            and vehicle taxation.
   (iii)    Highway Design Standards - An analysis was made of
            the effect of highway design levels on vehicle
            operating costs. The effects of geometric align-
            ment and paving were considered and the results
            were strongly affected by initial traffic volumes
            and terrain.
     (iv)   Road Policies - Policies for road improvement were
            considered with alternative design levels and al-
            ternative timings of improvement. Optimum policies
            were identified but these were influenced by bud-
            get limits.



                                                                 ",

                          -32-
                                                                 Ii
                                                          TERRAl N
                                                      CHARACTERISTICS                 rl           STRUCTURES      r                            REGIONAL
                                                                                                                                            CHARACTERISTICS



                                                                ,                                                                                  ..
                                 HIGHWAY
                                 DESIGN
                                STANDARDS
                                                                                             ~I    GEOMEIRICS
                                                                                                                                        TOTAL
                                                                                                                                       HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                       DESIGN       ---         HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                 COS TS
                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                          COST OF
                                                      MAX I MUM
                                                                                                                                                                                  r+      HIGHWAY I-
                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVISION
                                                    PERMI SSI BL E
                                                    AU E LOADS
                                                                                      L.I             SURFACE

                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                        1r"o                    HIGHWAY
                                                                                                                                                              MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                                                                 COSTS
                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                         ~                                                                                                     TOTAL
                                                                                                  POll CY FOR                                                                                          r+     COST OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                              HIGHWAY


                   - ...                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                             TRANSPORT
                                 VOLUME             SIZE, TYPE,                              SUR~~~EO~~~~WAL -
       SOClO-
      ECONOMIC                     OF        r-t'   AND NUMBER I-                                 I~AIIHEr;AI;CE                                                 SAFETY
      FACTORS                    CARGO               OF TRUCKS                                                                                          rt'       AND        r-
                                                                                                                       ,    SURFACE                             COMfORT
                                                                                                                           CONDITION
                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL

                                                                          ...      I;UMBER AllO                                                                                   '-to    COST Of



                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                          HIGHWAY
                                                                                     TYPE OF                                                                                                 USE
                      -                                NUMBER
                                                                                !!EAVY VEH I CLES
                                                                                                                                                                 VEHICLE
                                                                                                                                                                  USER
                                                                                                                                                                  COSTS
                                                                                                                                                                             r-
                                              r+         Of
                                                       BUSES
                                                                     I-

                                                                                                                   VOLUME AND

     TRANSPORT I""-
       COSTS
                          ...   VOLUME OF
                                PASSENGERS
                                                                                                          ---+     COMPOSITION
                                                                                                                   OF TRAFFIC




                                                                                   NUMBER
                                                                                  OF LIGHT         ~
                                                                                  VEHICLES




                                                                                HIGHWAY TRANSPORT COST SYSTEM
%'IluiI fl'milli and ..;!(/4q.()Ciale~                                                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 3-5
        (v)   Bridges and Delays - Potential bridge projects
              were identified together with an estimate of cur-
              rent delays due to lack of bridges. Delays were
              oosted and a feasible program of bridge construc-
              tion established (independent of the HDM Model).
       (vi)   Maintenance Policies - Alternative maintenance
              policies were evaluated for each type of surface
              and by traffic volume class.
      (vii)   Investment Program - Road improvement (including
              bridges) and maintenance policies were evaluated
              to select an optimum balance between these two
              types of highway expenditure within probable bud-
              get limits. Initial appraisals were made for high-
              ways alone, but the final program included all
              transport investments.
Budget Constraints
     In defining an investment program it is not sufficient
simply to list all projects which have been found to be
economically worthwhile. In general the costs of these pro-
jects will exceed the available budget, if not over the whole
period under consideration then at least in some years dur-
ing that period. Therefore it is necessary to have a logi-
cal, systematic method of maximizing some form of economic
benefit while staying within budgetary constraints. For the
purposes of this Study it was decided that net present value
(NPV) should be maximized (2); the method is based on a
dynamic programming algorithm.
     The basic concept underlying the approach used is termed
the investment unit. An investment unit consists of a set of
projects which are mutually exclusive, i.e. at most one may
be implemented. For example, for a particular stretch of
highway the investment unit could consist of: gravel the
road, pave to a low standard, pave to a higher standard,
each with three different starting dates, reSUlting in nine
different projects. The investment unit may be applied to
road, rail, air or any other mode, or to maintenance pro-
jects. For each project there must be specified the NPV of




(2)   'Ihawat Watanatada and Clell G. Harral, Dete:c:nination of Economical-
      ly Balanced Highway Expenditure PF1Eeams under Budget Constraints:
      A Practical Approach, presented a~ l\brld Conference on Trans-
      port Research, wndon, April, 1980.


                               -33-
that project, discounted to a common year for all projects,
and the costs of the project by year. As long as a project
can be defined in this way it can be subjected to the same
treatment.
     In practical terms the method may be employed in several
different ways. For instance, if a highway investment budget
is known independently, then the best selection of highway pro-
jects may be made. Alternatively all transport projects for
the country may be analyzed together. An additional output
of the method is the global NPV obtained at varying budget
levels, thus providing knowledge of the sensitivity of the
global NPV to changes in budget level in any or all of the
investment periods under consideration.




                                                                  '.




                         -34-
        CHAPTER 4

EXISTING TRANSPORT SYSTEM
CHAPTER 4

EXISTING TRANSPORT· SYSTEM
     The history of Bolivia's economic development is closely
related to the provision of transport infrastructure. A
century ago, the growth of the mining industry went hand in
hand with the construction of railroad lines. In the 1950s,
the economic rise of the Santa Cruz area followed the
building of a road connection with the rest of the country;
this was aided by the expansion of the hydrocarbon industry
which itself called for the development of a pipeline
network. More recently, penetration and feeder roads have
been built to spur agricultural production, and the
exploitation of the rich Mutun iron ores is seen in
conjunction with improved access to foreign markets via the
Paraguay River.
     This chapter describes briefly the principal charac-
teristics of today's transport system. Each mode is first
examined separately, followed by a general overview of the
access provided to the various regions and the country as
a whole.
Railroads
     The rail network is comparatively extensive, being
more than 2.5 times as long as all paved highways together.
It is divided into two separate systems; a connection be-
tween them by rail is possible, but would require a long
detour via the Belgrano Railroad in Argentina.
     Most of the Andean System in western Bolivia was
built more than 60 years ago, primarily to serve the mining
industry on the Altiplano. In contrast, the Eastern system
has been in operation for less than 20 years; its traffic
volumes have reflected the economic growth of the eastern
lowlands and now account for 39 percent of the country's
ton-kilometers by rail (it makes up 38 percent of the
national rail network). The following paragraphs summarize
the characteristics of the railroads; further details are
contained in Appendix 4A and Working Paper 27.




                        -35-
                                                                 ....
     Rail Network - Figure 4-1 shows the existing railroad
lines in and near Bolivia. Rail construction beoan in 1872
with the railroad from Mejillones (near Antofagasta) towards
the Altiplano in territory which is now administered by
Chilei in 1892 this line reached Oruro. Nearly all the other
lines in the Andean rail system were built between 1900 and
1920. The last extension to this system was in the 1950s
when the now abandoned railroad from La Paz into the Yungas
was extended to Chuspipatai the further extension to
Rurrenabaque never went beyond the planning stage.
                                                                 "
      In the eastern lowlands, the Santa Cruz-Corumb4
railroad was completed in 1958 with Brazilian assistance.
The Santa Cruz-Yacuiba railroad, built with Argentinian
credits, has been in operation by the Bolivian railroad
since 1967. Two sections of the planned railroad to
Trinidad (also built with Argentinian aid), Santa Cruz-Santa
Rosa and Santa Rosa-Yapacan!, were completed in 1976 and 1978,
respectivelYi construction of the third section to R!o Grande
commenced in September 1980.
     Today, the railroad network comprises 3,643 km of one-
meter gauge, single-track lines. Of these, 2,257 km are in
the Andean system and 1,386 km in the Eastern system. The
alignment is characterized by its sharp curvature and steep
grades in the mountainous areas with minimum radii of less
than 100 meters. On the Altiplano and in the lowlands,            .•
there are generally long tangents with a few large-radius
curves.
      In general, the track is stable, with the exception of
sections between Oruro and Cochabamba, and between Villaz6n
and Atocha, which often suffer interruptions during the
rainy season. Also, in the exceptionally severe rainy
season of 1978/79, a long section of the Santa Cruz-Corumb~
railroad was washed away near Robor~, interrupting operation
for nearly half a year.
     The Bolivian network connects with the railroads in
Argentina, Chile and Brazil, which in general are also single
track with one-meter gauge, and thereby with several ports
on the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Ferries on Lake Titicaca
give access to the Peruvian railroads which, however, have
standard-gauge (1.435 m) track.
     Transport Flows - In the year 1979, 807,000 passengers
and 751,000 tons ot goods were transported on the Andean
system. The Eastern system carried 405,000 passengers and
445,000 tons of goods. More than three quarters of ENFEts



                        -36-
                                                                                                              LEGEND

                                                                                            +t-+++­           NARROW GAUGE                (1 .00m .)

                                                                                            ~                 STANDARD GAUGE                 (I..S5m .)




                           c.
                           cl




                                .... , ...
                                ........ ,.....
                                          , .. .
                                ... '''''('
                                                 ~
                                                 /




          o
          ()

           11\

           ~

            2
               o
                                                                                )                                                   c     }
                                                                                                                                          >
                                                                            I                                          V
                                                                                                                           '\


                                                                                                                  '"
                                                                                                                                          ~
                 ()
                                                                        --r.j                    ~
                                                                                                         ~,




                                                                           ~'
                                                                                -      ~
                                                                                                                                            >.
                                                                                                                                    \.i


                      ()
                                                                                                              ~
                                                                                                                       ~        "             "
                      o                                                                          ''"'~
                                                                                    1 :\J    A




                                                     EXISTING RAILROAD NETWORK

IJ)fillu" fIlm;I" and .A()oocialeo                                                                                                               FIGURE 4-1
freight traffic are foreign trade movements, which are heavily
imbalanced towards imports (73 percent of foreign traae rrove:rrents
by rail in 1978). By far the most important route, both for
imports and exports, is the line to Antofagasta, accounting
for 43 percent of ENFE's foreign trade tonnage (1978).
     During the 15-year period 1965 through 1979, the number
of passenger-kilometers nearly doubled, primarily because of
the growing number of movements on the Eastern system, and
because of longer average trip lengths. This is shown in
Figure 4-2, which also indicates that the same situation
occurred with the transport of freight and for the same
reasons. The number of ton-kilometers more than doubled,
with the most significant growth in the period 1974 to 1977.
     Organization of the National Railroad Corn an - ENFE
(Empresa Naciona   e Ferrocarri es manages a 1 t e railroads
of the country with the exception of the 105-km mining
railroad from Machacamarca to Unc!a, which is operated by the
Bolivian Mining Corporation.
     Technical administration is provided by the Ministry
of Transport and Communications, while financial matters
are under the Ministry of Finance. The Board of Directors
is chaired by the Minister of Transport, with representatives
of the Presidency of the Republic, the Finance, Mining and
Industry Ministries and the Railroad Directorate of the
Ministry of Transport; the General Manager of ENFE is also a
board member.
     The Board, General Management and administrative and
commercial departments are located in La Paz, while operations
management is located in Oruro, with operating offices in the
main railroad centers. The management of the Eastern network
is located in Santa Cruz, together with all its operating
offices.
      Operations - In June 1980. ENFE had 7,201 employees
of whom 6,405 worked in operations and 79~ in rehabilitation.
Of the total, 6,412 were permanent employees and 789
temporary. The total number of permanent and temporary
employees amounted to 6,401 in 1975 and 6,047 in 1976
(excluding the approximately 400 persons working on the Guaqui line, and
prior to large-scale activities on the track rehabilitation program).
     The rail locomotive fleet includes 9 diesel-hydraulic
locomotives manufactured in 1968 and 54 diesel-electric
locomotives, of which 20 are of 1968 vintage and 34 are 1977
and 1978 models. In addition, 14 ferrobuses are in operation,
composed of one powered car and one or two towed cars; 10
are 1967 models and 4 were purchased in 1978.


                            -37-
     At the end of 1979. the passenger car equipment
consisted of 187 cars, 89 of which were purchased prior to
1950. Of the remaining, 91 were purchased and 7 were
primarily built by ENFE within the last three years.
     The company maintains 140 rail freight cars for its own
use, and another 1,927 are available for commercial use. Most
of these are relatively new, 1,145 having been purchased after
1973. ENFE's 1979 statistics also list 192 own-account cars,
mostly belonging to the National Hydrocarbons Company (YPFB).
     The availability of the locomotive equipment reaches
75 percent, with about 25 percent out of service due to
repairs. Repairs and maintenance of locomotive equipment
are performed in the workshops located in Viacha, Oruro,
La Paz and Santa Cruz. Repairs and maintenance of non-
powered passenger equipment and railcars take place in
Uyuni and Robor~.                                                 ,       1\




     ENFE uses the following communications systems for its
operations:
     • A security system for the movement of trains, and for
       traffic regulation from central command posts.
     • A selective circuit for calls in the Andean network
       for the use of the operative departments.
     • A telephone system for communications between the
       busier centers.
     • Additional telephone and telegraph services in the             I    ,


       Eastern system.
     o A block signal system on the Oruro-Cochabamba branch.
     Current Railroad Improvement Projects - Almost invariably,
the railroad lines were built with the minimum possible
invest~~nt, using a relatively light rail and wooden sleepers
placed directly on the soil, without ballast. This, combined
with a certain amount of deferred maintenance, has resulted
in poor operating conditions, causing low speeds, high
operating costs and risk of derailment.
     With the help of several loans from the World Bank, a        iJ       ~,



track rehabilitation program was initiated in 1973. By the
end of 1979, 433 kilometers of line, or about 12 percent of
the rail network, had been brought up to a standard permitting
efficient operation. Discussions are currently underway be-
tween ENFE and the World Bank to decide a further phase of the
track rehabilitation program, the desirability of which is
examined later in this report.

                        -38-
        400                             L
                                        I
                                                            j

 til
 c
.£
        350                           PASSENGERS
:;;
        300

 ..
 ...
 til

....
 E      250
 0

~                                                                                                  A
                                                                                          .............
        200

 ....
 ..
 Ol
 c
 til
 til
         150


 0
 0..     100

                                                                                                                                              SYS EM
         50



          O~----~--+---~--~----r---~---+~--~--+----+--~~--T---~--~--
              1965         1966        1967   1966         1969     1970          1971             1972       1973      1974        1975           1976    1977       1978       1979




                                                                                                                                                                      1______
        600                  !    _.
                                       l +- L                                   _ - 1·-
                                                                                 ..
                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                            L
                                                                                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                                                          l
        550                  :              FREIGHT                  i                                               '-~-   1-'_--
                                                                                                                                                                          !

                             !                                                                                                                      V
        500                                          ..   _- f-.                                                                               /
                                                                                                                                          /
 til    450                                                          i                                                             /
                                                                                                              ___~ V
  c                                                                  I
 0
                             I                 i                     !
 -      400
                             I                                       I
                                                                                                                                                           - .-
 :;;
                             :          .
                                        :
                                               l /~NF
                                                 -T-~~
                                                                                                      ~~                                                   .1
                                                                                                                                                                    ,-~   r-
                                                                                                                                                                               '-
 ..
 ...
 til    350

 -
               I---~J        ~ND¥
                                                                                                               I                                     /l'                             I




                  -- -1 . .,----
  "
 'E     300                                                                                                            --1----
 0

 ~
                                                                                                          YSTEM                  //
        250 ~-I--                    .....,1' . ,--             ----i--                   -~

  c
                     ..... _....."
                                        I      :
                                                 I
                                                                ,
                                                                     j

                                                                                      I                   -          ........V                  .,.t.                     ~.- ....
                                        : T--T""T----r--             i                                                                                     .~-.-.,
 0
 r-                                                                                                                                                                            -- c---
                                                                                                                                          ~.' I
        200
                                                                                                      f--                   ..... _ ...
                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                  --~ -EA~TER1S~~~!!~./"
         150                                                                                                                                                              I


         100                                         '~--T--                               .
                                        I      i / .'.
                                               1                     !......"   """"r
         50
               r-'-'         r-.-}:::-r-j-ir----                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                    ,


                                                                                                                                                    I                             I
          0
              1965         1966        1967   1966         1969      1970         1971              1972      1973      1974           1975        1976    1977       1978       1979




                                                                    TRENDS IN RAIL TRANSPORT

(J)fi"u", flmillt and .;t/(o(>odale6                                                                                                                                            FIGURE 4-2
                                                                                        PAVED




                I
                N
                                                                                        GRAVEL SURFACE

                                                                                        EARTH SURFACE




:Ii   ,.J~.--\
             --
              CO,"       ,                   ~_




t'\                          \,

 ~                                   \,
      d             ./'-'1 ­
      r              I
                         j                   .

      ....
                                             \

          :.­
            d
                                     ~   \




                              ....
                                     /
                             (' ".... ..          ,
                                                      ­




                                                          EXISTING NETWORK OF PRIMARY
                                                              AND SECONDARY ROADS

                                                                                                         FIGURE 4-3
     The only current construction of new railroads is the
extension of the track from Yapacani to Rio Grande, part of
the Santa Cruz-Trinidad rail line. However, several design
studies have been completed or are being actively considered
to investigate the following lines:
     •   Santa Cruz-Mataral-Aiquile (Rail Interconnection
         Santa Cruz-Cochabamba);
     •   Mataral-Tarabuco (Part of rail interconnection
         Santa Cruz-Sucre);
     •   Motacucito-Mutun~Puerto Busch (Paraguay River); and,
     •   Guaqui-Oesaguadero (Peruvian Border) •
     The last of these would form part of a link between the
Peruvian and Bolivian railroad networks, which are currently
connected only by the Lake Titicaca ferries; some construction
is taking place in the Peruvian section Puno-Oesaguadero.
All the rail connections mentioned above are among the rail
projects evaluated by this Study.

Roads a£d Road Transport

     Although the importance of road transport has grown
considerably in the past two decades, the system of modern
highways is still quite rudimentary. At the end of 1978,
only 13 percent of the primary and secondary roac network
was paved.

     The first major paved highway to be built in Bolivia was
from Cochabamba to Santa Cruz, playing a most important role
in national integration and in the economic development of
the eastern lowlands.  This 495-km highway, which for the
most part is now in need of rehabilitation, was completed in
1958. The construction of paved highways then proceeded
gradually, with only 244 km opened to traffic in the 1960s,
and a further 550 km in the 1970s.

     The interurban road system is used predominantly by
trucks and other commercial vehicles. Because of the virtual
absence of private passenger cars, traffic volumes are
generally very low and exceed a daily flow of 1,000 vehicles
at only a few locations. This compares with the capacity of
a good two-lane road of between 10,000 and 20,000 vehicles
per day.

     Road Network - The National Road Service (Servicio
Nacional de Caminos - SNC) classifies the road network into
three types of routes: primary, secondary and local. At
the end of 1978, there were 5,375 km of primary roads, 4,270
km of secondary roads and 29,183 km of local roads, totalling
38,828 km. Of this total, 1,289 km (3 percent) . were paved,
6,798 km (18 percent) gravel and 30,741 km (79 percent)
earth roads; Table 4-1 gives a breakdown of the road system
by surface type and district. As shown in Figure 4-3, the
paved roads are concentrated in the districts of La Paz,
Cochabamba, santa Cruz and Oruro (1,229 km, 95 percent).

                           -39-
                                                  Table 4-1
                         LENGTH OF ROADS BY DISTRICTS AND BY TYPE OF ROAD SURFACE


                                                 KII.DMETERS OF ROAD BY DISTRICT
      TYPE OF ROAD         La Paz Chuq. Tarija Cboa. S.Cruz Oruro Potost Tupiza Beni Pando Totals

      PRIMARY NE'IWORK

      Paved                   185     6     54    373     426   159                                                1,203
      Gravel                  492   834    371    190     250   441          511                       90    30    3,209
      Earth                    86          191            35~                                         284    48      963

      Subtotal                763   840    616    563   1,030   600          511                      374    78    5,375
      SEXX>NOARY NEIWJRK
 ,    Paved                    21                   7                                                                 28
"',
0 "   Gravel                  164    97    356     62     164   172          115           176                     1,306
      Earth                   393    24    136    126     562   926          322           318         79    50    2,936

      Subtotal                578   121     492   195     726 1,098          437           494         79    50    4,270
      LOCAL ROADS
      Paved                                         3      55                                                         58
      Gravel                1,201                 711     371                                                      2,283
      Earth                 3,651 3,480   1,882 1,578   4,230 3,299   4,858              3,433        362    69   26,842

      Subtotal              4,852 3,480   1,882 2,292   4,656 3,299   4,858              3,433        362    69   29,183
      '!'OrAL NE."ImRK
      Paved                   206     6      54   383     481   159                                                1,289
      Gravel                1,857   931     727   963     785   613     626                176         90    30    6,798
      Earth                 4,130 3,504   2,209 1,704   5,146 4,225   5,180              3,751        725   167   30,741

      TOTAL                 6,193 4,441   2,990 3,050   6,412 4,997   5,806              3,927        815   197   38,828

      SOURCE:      Estad!stica Vial 1978 (Road Statistics for 1978), Servicio Nacional de Caminos,
                   Departamento de Planificacion, La Paz.


                                                   *'                              oiI     ..    ;&    a ,• • • • • •      it
                                                                "     cl(I    '"
     Without doubt the most important road axis connects
La Paz with Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. After completion
of the Quillacollo-Confital and Confital-Caihuasi sections,
which are currently or will soon be under construction,
it will constitute a paved road of about 870 km.  Between
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, the construction of a second
paved road is planned to commence in 1981 (Chimor~-Yapacan1),
which will run to the north of the existing road, mainly
through flat terrain. These are committed projects and
were therefore not included in the Study's formal evalua-
tions.

     Another important axis runs from La Paz to the south,
passing through Oruro, Potos1, Tarija and Bermejo. This
axis, apart from the short paved Oruro-Machacamarca and
Tomatas-Padcaya sections, is a gravel road. Two major roads
branch off from this axis to connect with the Argentinian
road system at Villazon and Yacuiba. Other international road
connections exist at Fortin Villazon, Desaguadero and Tambo
Quemado. These pOints are linked with the remainder of the
Bolivian road network by either gravel or earth roads.

     Several international agreements have defined a number
of transcontinental highways, some of which pass through
Bolivia. The Pan American Highway enters Bolivia at Desa-
guadero and continues via La Paz, Oruro and Potosl.   It
splits further south and connects with the Argentinian road
system alternatively via Villazon and Tarija-Bermejo.
Another branch south of Oruro goes via Sucre and Fortln
Villaz6n into Paraguayan territory. Another international
road (Carretera Marginal de la Selva) is planned to cross
the Peruvian border near Puerto Heath and continue via R10
Yucumo and Chimore to Montero, where it would split into
two sections:  the one would provide an eastward connection
with the Brazilian road system at San Matfasi the other
continues in a southerly direction towards Argentina, via
Santa Cruz and Yacuiba. The Organization of American States
defined two further international roads passing through
Bolivia. The Arica-Santos highway follows existing roads
from Tambo Quemado to Santa Cruz, from where it would con-
tinue eastwards to Corumba in Brazil. The LaPaz - Caracas
highway would consist largely of roads that are yet to be
built, either via Cobija or via Riberalta and Guayaramer{n.

     Traffic Volumes - In general, traffic volumes on the
interurban road system are low. The latest system-wide
data published by SNC (for 1977) indicate that only 300 km
of road carry an average daily volume of more than 1,000
vehicles (1). Half of these represent four main roads
leading into Montero, north of Santa Cruz. The other sec-
tions in this category are in the immediate vicinity of Cocha-
bamba and La Paz.

(I)   Estad{stica Vial 1978 (Road Statistics for 1978), Servicio
      Nacional de Caminos, Departamento de Planificacion, La Paz,
      December 1978.
                          -41-
     Even in the next category of 500 to 1,000 vehicles per
day, there are only 357 km of roads throughout the country,
which again are mostly clustered around the major cities.
The LaPaz-Oruro highway is the only interurban connection
carrying more than 500 vehicles per day throughout its           •
length.
                                                                 •
     The roadside interview surveys conducted in 1979 around
the departmental capitals and at some major roa~ jupctions
provided detailed information on the traffic using the road
system; this is discussed extensively in Working Papers 14
and l4a and summarized in Appendix 4B. About 67 percent of
all observed vehicles were trucks and vans, 18 percent buses
and 15 percent private passenger vehicles. Of the observed
trucks, 55 percent carried no freight (although about a fifth
of these were used for passenger transport), and the remainder
were on average loaded to SO percent of capacity. On the other
hand, buses were operating with high load factors, averaging
about 93 percent.

     SNC Organization - The National Road Service (SNC) is
an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. It is charged with planning, constructing,
maintaining and administering highways in Bolivia. Overall,
it employs 5,211 persons of whom 194 are engineers, 501
technicians, 4,329 manual workers and 187 others (1979).

     The SNC was established through Supreme Decree No. 6684
of February 21, 1964 and by Legal Decree No. 7390 of February
15, 1965. Its origin was the Bolivian-American Cooperative
Road Service, which was charged with road maintenance in
1955, replacing the Direcci6n General de Vialidad.
     The head office in La Paz includes nine technical and
administrative departments. Road maintenance and improve-
ments are carried out at the district level. At present, there
are ten districts, each of which has an independent admini-
stration under the direction of a district chief.

     Six construction projects are currently underway.  Two
of these, La Paz-Cotapata and Quillacollo-Confital, are being
built by contractors. The others (2) are under the direct
administration of SNC, supervised by project chiefs who have
a similar rank as the district chiefs.


(2) Project Sapecho, i.e. Bella Vista-Rio Quiquibey,
    Rio Yucumo-San Borja and Rio Yucumo-Puerto Salines
    roads; Project San Ignacio, i.e. certain road improve-
    ments in the Beni; San RamOn-concepcion road; and San
    RamOn-Trinidad road.



                        -42-
SANTA CRUZ - TRINIDAD




                                      SANTA CRUZ - TRINIDAD
                                       (PROBLEMS WITH DUST)




SUCRE - EPIZANA
(OFFICIALLY GRAVEL)




                        EARTH ROADS
     Organization of Road Transport - Public road transport
is largely provided by drivers operating their own vehicle.
They must belong to a syndicate, of which there are 86 for
non-urban transport: these are grouped into ten federations,
all belonging to the Bolivian Confederation of Drivers.
Transport cooperatives and private transport companies are
also recognized by the State, but their activities are
limited to the interdepartmental transport of passengers
and the international transport of passengers and cargo.
The Ministry of Transport and Communications fixes
transport tariffs and has the legal power to regulate
road transport. The interrelationship between Government
and the road transport industry is examined in Chapter 16 of
this Report.

      The drivers' federations, in accordance with agreements
signed internally, act as the collectors and distributors of
all goods movements inside Bolivia. The truckers must comply
with the requirements imposed by the federations to be
assign"ed cargo for transport. Freight transport is divided
into two classes:

     • Long-distance transport
     • Interprovincial transport.

     Long-distance transport is characterized by travel
distances greater than 200 km.  The average capacity of the
trucks is 12 tons and the average distance travelled by
each truck is estimated at 40,000 km per year.

     Interprovincial cargo transport is used for trips less
than 200 km in length and with trucks with an average capacity
of 8 tons. This type of transport is closely linked to
seasonal production of various agricultural sectors. It is
estimated that the average distance travelled by vehicles in
this service is 30,000 km per year.

     International cargo transport is provided by eight
cooperatives and five private companies operating between
Bolivia and Arica (Chile), Matarani and Lima (Peru), and
lately and sporadically Rosario and Buenos Aires (Argentina).

      Interprovincial passenger services are provided by 74
syndicates with passenger and cargo vehicles. Buses that
operate over mountainous roads generally have a capacity of
25 to 30 seats, while those which operate primarily on flat
roads usually have a capacity of 32 to 40 seats. Passengers
are also carried by truck; it was observed in the roadside
interview survey that trucks carried an average of six
passengers, often in addition to goods.




                         -43-
     Interdepartmental passenger services are furnished by
40 companies with an overall fleet of over 200 buses,
averaging 36 seats per vehicle. They generally connect the
departmental capitals, and the average annual distance
travelled by each bus is about 75,000 km.
Siver and Lake Transport
     The Madera River system in northeastern Bolivia, the
Paraguay River near the southeastern boundary, and Lake
Titicaca are all important waterways. Their geographical
locations are shown in Figure 4-4. The following presents
a sununary of their characteristics and usage, based on
detailed data compiled during the course of the Study and
described in Appendix 4C and in Working Papers 23 and 24.
     River Transport in Northeastern Bolivia - The
rivers Beni - Madre de Dios - Orthon, Ichilo - Mamore,
and Itenez form the Madera River which flows into the
Amazon. River navigation is limited to about half the
10,000 km of principal rivers and major tributaries within
Bolivia. They provide a natural means of communication and
transport for passengers and goods to the country's
northern region, which is nearly devoid of land access.
     Table 4-2 sununarizes the Bolivian waterways belonging
to the Amazon river basin. It presents for each river
system the principal navigable tributaries and the length
of each. The total navigable waterways approximate 5,570
km. However, this length includes several sections, such
as Puerto Linares - Rurrenabaque, where the channel depth
only permits the passage of shallow-draft barges of limited
capacity (15 tons). Moreover, the traffic of barges is
considerably reduced during the dry season in the winter.
     The Ichilo - Mamore river system is the most important
for transport; it is estimated that the total tonnage
transported in 1978 was approximately 200,000 tons. This
was mostly carried by 207 privately operated boats registered
by the Bolivian Navy. The transport capacity of the 150
largest boats averages 75 tons per boat, considerably more
than the boat capacities prevailing on the other rivers in
northeastern Bolivia.
     Along the Ichilo - Mamore system, there are three main
ports:  (a) Puerto Villarroel, which is connected with
Cochabamba by a 240 km long road; (b) Puerto Varador and Puerto
Almacen near Trinidad; and (c) Puerto Guayaramer!n. About 82
percent of the recorded goods movements on the Ichilo - Mamore
are between these ports; the remaining 18 percent are almost·
all between the three major ports and other intermediate river
ports.

                           -44-
                                                                                                                     LEGEND
                                                                                                          0         Department Capitols


                                                                                                          •         Ports

                                                                                                           0        Other Towns

                                                                                                                    Navigable Rivers
                                                                                                      ~

                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                    Other Rivers


                                                                     -f                               ~\m\\\I,\~1   Rapids

                                                                                                                    National Boundary




                      DLA PAZ

                                                                                                                                                        <
,                                                                     OSANTA CRUZ
    \
                                     o
    \,                        ORURO


        \
            "

                '"
                 '-
                 <:                      POTOS~
                                                       0 SUCRE


                                                                                                      f----
                                                                                                                    _-------....
                                                                                                                                        Plo.SlIGrel;
                                                                                                                                   (Laguna QicefllS)J


                                                                                                                                   ",", (
                                                                                                                                          MuNn/ .
                                                                                                                                                           ~ronIlI
                l',
                                                                                              /   /                                         '    ' .....
                                                                                                                                                  Plo.Bu.eh


    ~ ~(                                                                                      (
                      "                                   OTARIJA                         /
                                                                                      I
                          \
                          l
                              \          /
                                             I"'..
                                             r
                                                     -----....;'
                                                                 ,------, ,   I
                                                                                  /



                                  \_-_/j                   \/
                                         A R G E N T                N A

                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                     I




                                                       NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS

                                                                                                                                        FIGURE 4-4
                                                             Table 4-2
                                      RIVER NAVIGATICN SYSTEM IN BOLIVIA - AMAZCN RIVER BASIN

                    RIVER SYSTEMS AND
                  NAVIGABLE TRIBUTARIES                      TERMINAL POINTS             LENGTH IN KM     'I'Ol'AL KM
       1. Ichilo-Mamore Rivers
            Ichilo River                          Puerto Grether-Puerto Villarroel (1)          143
            Ichilo River                          Puerto Villarroel- R:Lo Grande               276
            Mamore River                          Rio Grande-Guayaramer1n                    1,041         1,460

       T.    Isiboro-Secure Rivers                Chipiriri River-Mamore River                  284
       T.    Iba.re River                         Puerto Alrnaren-Mamore River                   46
       T.    Yacuma River                         Rio Bio-Santa Ana de Yacuma                    40 (2)
       T.    Yacuma River                         Santa Ana de Yacurna-Mamore River              43
       T.    Rro Grande-Yapacani River            Yapacani Railroad Bridge- Mamon;~' River      150 (2)        563
       2. Beni-Madre de Dios-Orthon Rivers
             Beni River                           Puerto Linares-Rurrenabaque (1)               145 (2)
.t>o
U1        Beni River                              Rurrenabaque-cachuela Esperanza               883          1,028
 I                                                                                              120 (2)        120
       T. Madidi River                            Esrreralda River-Beni River
             Madre de Dios    P~ver               Puerto Heath-Beni River                       483            483
             Orthon River                         Puerto Rico-Beni River                        315            315
       T. Tahuamanu River                         Porvenir-Orthon River                         332
       T. Manuripi River                          Manurime River-Orthon River                   200 (2)        532
             Abum     River                       Rapirran-Fortaleza del 'Abuna                 210            210
       3.     Itenez River                        Piso Firroe-Mamore River                      631            631
       T.    Machupo River                        San Raron-La Horquilla                        110 (2)
       T.    !>'1..achupo River                   La Horqui11a-Itenez River                      15
       T.     Itonamas River                      Magdalena-La Horquilla                        100 (2)        225


             '!OrAL                                                                                          5,567

       T.        Tributaries.
       (1)       Navigable with restrictions.
       (2)       Estimated distances .
       . sot1RCE:     First Interim Fep?rt, Bolivia National Transport Study, D?cerrber 1979.
                                                                 ..
      The Beni - Madre de Dios - Orthon river system converges
on Riberalta, making this city an important port and
distribution center. On this system, the number of registered
boats in 1978 totalled 230, with capacities varying from 1 to
70 tons. Navigation along the Abun! River is limited to the
settlements located alongside the river, extending from its
confluence with the Rapirran River to the town of Fortaleza
del Abun!.
     The Itenez River is potentially important for transport,
with navigation possible from Piso Firme to its confluence
with the Mamore River over a distance of 631 km. It flows
through virtually uninhabited territory, and no information
is available regarding the characteristics of the vessels
using it, nor the transport of passengers and freight.
However, since the minimum channel depth during the low
water season is 0.9 m, the Itenez clearly provides better
navigation conditions than the Rivers Beni, Madre de Dios
and Orthon.
     Transport on the Paraguay River - This river, belonging
to the River Plate System and connecting with the port of
Buenos Aires (2,771 km from Corumb!), forms the border
between Bolivia and Brazil for a distance of 48 km near
Puerto Busch. It does not otherwise pass through Bolivian
territory, although waterborne access would be possible
from the Caceres Lagoon at Puerto Su!rez. Many years ago,
ocean-going vessels did in fact anchor at this Bolivian town,
but over the past decades the lagoon has become shallow even
during the wet season and sometimes dries up completely.
Consequently, Puerto Su!rez is no longer used as a port.
     At the port of Cor~.b~ in Brazil, Bolivia currently uses
a wharf with berthing space for two 1,000-ton capacity
barges. This wharf is utilized for the transport of iron ore
originating at Mutan, of which about 100,000 tons were planned
to be exported in 1980 via the Paraguay River. ~~out 2,000
tons of general cargo to and from Bolivia (1979) also use
the port facilities at Corumb!i there are currently no
co~mercial port activities at Puerto Busch.

     Transport on Lake Titicaca - About 40 percent of Lake
Titicaca belongs to Bolivia and the remainder to Peru. Both
countries have signed agreements controlling transport and
general use of the lake. These agreements are reflected in
the policy governing the Joint Permanent Coordinating
Commission of Bolivia and Peru.




                        -46-
     Lake transport is an essential part of the railroad
system connecting Bolivia with the Peruvian ports on the
Pacific Ocean, linking the meter gauge Viacha-Guaqui railroad
in Bolivia with the standard gauge Puno-Matarani railroad in
Peru. The other major navigation route on the lake is be-
tween Puno and Chaguaya, a Bolivian port through which the
minerals from the nearby Matilde mine are exported.

     Both import and export volumes via the Lake have been
generally declining during the 1970s. This is particularly
acute on the Chaguaya-Puno route where the annual volume
decreased from 67,000 tons in 1973 to 37,000 tons in 1978,
due to the falling production at the Matilde mine.

Transport by Pipeline

     Commercial oil production in Bolivia commenced in
1924, and by 1949 the level of production had risen to some
1,500 barrels per day. During that quarter century,
refining of the crude oil had taken place in small refineries
located in or close to the oil fields.  In 1949, with the
development of crude oil production in the vicinity of Camiri,
the Bolivian National Hydrocarbons'Company (Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos - YPFB) constructed Bolivia's
first transport pipeline from Camiri to Lamboyo where the
line branched; one branch going to the refinery at
Cochabamba, the other to the refinery at Sucre.

     Numerous other pipelines were built thereafter and the
system, shown in Figure 4-5, now has an overall length of
about 4,700 kID within Bolivian territory.  About 20 percent
of this consists of natural gas pipelines, all built within
the last 10 years. Another 20 percent has been built to
carry refined petroleum products; the remainder have been
classified as crude oil pipelines.   The current charac-
teristics of pipeline transport are described in Working
Paper 22 and summarized in Appendix 4D.

     Crude Oil Pipelines - There are nearly 2,500 km ot crude
oil pipelines in Bolivia. They range from 2 to 12 inches
in diameter, and were constructed between 1949 and 1978.

      Due to a lack of new oil finds, the production of crude
petroleum has been declining over the past several years.
Production fell from 2.74 million cubic meters in 1973 to
1.88 million in 1978, a decrease of 31 percent.




                        -47-
     On the other hand, the Bolivian crude oil is
increasingly being refined within the country. In 1978, 1.56
million cubic meters of crude oil were processed at Bolivian
refineries, compared with 0.88 million in 1973. As a
consequence, the proportion of Bolivia's oil production
exported in crude form declined from 68 to 23 percent during
the same period, and some of the pipelines originally built
for crude oil are now also used for refined products.           ...
                                                                .

     Gas Pipelines - Three gas pipelines are in operation.
By far the largest one, the 24-inch pipeline from Santa
Cruz to Yacuiba was built between 1968 and 1971 to export
natural gas from the fields near Santa Cruz to Argentina.
     While natural gas and crude oil pipelines are generally
considered as integral part of the petroleum industry and
therefore somewhat apart from the transport community, they
have, in terms of ton-kilometers, rendered a substantial
part of the transportation service performed in Bolivia
during the past three decades. In addition, the capital
investment for pipelines during the past 30 years has
constituted a significant part of total industrial and
transportation investment in the country.
     Product Pipelines - The first pipeline constructed in
Bolivia to transport refined petroleum products was completed
in 1956 to transport products from the Cochabamba refinery
to the cities of Oruro and La Paz. This 6-inch pipeline
was paralleled by a second pipeline when the first approached
capacity. A further 3-inch product pipeline was added in
1975 from the Sucre refinery to Potos!. A third pipeline
between Santa Cruz and Villamontes, which was formerly used
for crude oil, was changed to a petroleum product line in
June 1979.
     The need for other product pipelines may arise with the
development of the Bolivian economy in order to reduce the
costs of distributing petroleum products. Product pipelines
are in direct competition with other modes of transport.
Therefore, a detailed analysis has been made of the economics
of product pipelines, as discussed in Chapter 5.
Air Transport
     Air transport has grown significantly during the last
ten years. This has helped to alleviate the deficiencies
of other transport modes, especially in the movement of
passengers over long distances.and in providing access to
isolated parts of the country. Air transport is vital for




                         -48-
                                                                                                           LEGEND
                                                                                             -             C rude Oil Pipelines
                                                                                                           Gos Pipelines
                                                                                                           Product Pipelines
                                                                                                 6,        Oi I Refineries




    A Arico

                                                                                                                                        SANTA




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tite 0




"-
        "-......,,-


         I
             /                                                                         POTOSI
    (
        ",-
              )
C'
,
I

(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /
\

    >..---?                                                                                                                                                             i     Boyuibe                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /




             (
             I
              \~
                      \
                          \
                                                                                                                                                  T;";"f 11 t
                              \                                                                                                                                       6, Villomonfes
                                  I
                                  I                                                                                  TARIJA                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I


                                  I                                                                                                                                      I                                       /
                                  I
                                          0       50
                                          ~L~~_ _ _ _~!~~~~
                                                           100

                                              Approximate Scale
                                                                                 ISO     200 km
                                                                                                                          o                                             I                                    I




                                      1                                                      I"~                                                                       I                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                       I                             '

                                                                                                                 -----
                                      I                                                  I         \...,



                                      \,      \                                  r-
                                                                                        ~/             ''----                                             I
                                                                                                                                                              ,--
                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                    0-1-Yoc_u_i be __ "\
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 /



                                          !   " '------   --,\
                                                                 _/,J
                                                                                                                           --   \

                                                                                                                                    \
                                                                                                                                    \

                                                                                                                                        \Vi
                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                      I                                    ',j
                                                                                                                                                                                             \ ,,

                                                                             \
CHI                                           L E                        /                   ARGE N                    TIN A                                                                                                             \
                                                                     /
                                                                 /

                                                           /


                                                                                                 EXISTING PIPELINES

                                                                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 4-5
the transport of several products to their markets. Moreover,
it is important for social and economic integration by
linking together the various parts of the country.  It also
provides necessary international communications.

     Aeronautical Infrastructure - The airport register of
the Directorate of Civil Aeronautics lists 626 airports and
airfields throughout Bolivia. The vast majority of these
are small landing strips used by light airplanes, especially
in regions which do not have easy access by land. Practically
all these minor airfields have earth or turf surfaces, follow
the natural terrain and have no navigational or landing aids.

     The National Airport Administration (Administracion de
Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares a la Navegacion Aerea -
AASANA, operates 33 airports and airfields (see Appendix 4E).
Six of these (La Paz, Cochabarnba, Santa Cruz, Trinidad,
Tarija and Sucre) have paved runways which are regularly used
by modern jets. The lengths of the paved runways range
from 2,650 meters at Cochabarnba, to 4,000 meters at La Paz.
The runways of the other AASANA airports have earth or gravel
surfaces, and their length is generally in the range from
1,000 to 2,000 meters.

     Regular Air Services - The principal air carrier is
the national airline Lloyd A~reo Boliviano (LAB); its
domestic routes are shown in Figure 4-6.  In addition, there
are air services provided by the Bolivian Air Force, as well
as a few private companies.

     Lloyd Aereo Boliviano which is owned primarily by the
Bolivian government, provides domestic and international
air transport services for passengers, cargo and mail.    Its
fleet includes seven jetliners (three Boeing 727-200, three
727-100 and one 707) for domestic trunk routes and inter-
national services, and five turboprops (four Fairchild F-27,
and one Aerocommander) for other domestic services_  It also
provides international services to several Latin American
countries and the United States.

     Transportes Aereos Militares (TAM) is an autonomous unit
of the Bolivian Air Force and provides scheduled and non-
scheduled passenger, cargo and mail service within Bolivia.
With its fleet of two piston aircraft (C-47) and seven
turb9props (six Fokker    F-27 and one Lockheed Electra),
TAM serves primarily population centers which are not
otherwise served by air, and also Armed Forces units.

     Transporte AereO Boliviano (TAB) is another air transport
enterprise of the Bolivian Air Force; with two turboprop
aircraft (Hercules C-130), it offers a non-scheduled
service for domestic and international high-volume cargo.

                        -49-
                                                                    •
                                                                    ..
     TWo other small airlines, L!nea A~rea Imperial (LAI) and
L!neas A~reas Canedo (LAC), operate scheduled services between
La Paz, Cochabarnba and PotosI. Eight foreign airlines serve
La Paz and/or Santa Cruz, providing direct connections with
other South American countries, the United States and Europe.
     Non-regular Air Services - TWenty-five private air
transport companies offer non-regular cargo services within
the country; 19 of these are based in La Paz, four in Cocha-
bamba and two in Santa Cruz. These companies have a total
fleet of about 50 planes, mainly piston aircraft of 1940s
vintage such as the OC-3, OC-4, OC-6, C-54, Curtiss C-46, Convair
240 and 440, and Boeing B-17. The main function of these
companies is to transport meat from the Beni, but they also
carry other freight and some passengers between the major
cities and areas with poor accessibility by land transport.
     There are also 112 air taxi operators, with 163 aircraft
of different types, including propeller and turboprops. They
are based primarily in the eastern lowlands (Santa Cruz and
Beni, having 49 and 52 operators, respectively, but also in
La Paz, Cochabamba and Tarija) and render an important low-
volume passenger and freight transport service to remote
points of the country_
     TWenty-one private operators using specially equipped          ,.
small aircraft, ranging from helicopters to small jets,
provide services of crop spraying, fumigation, aerial
photograrnmetry, and mining and petroleum prospecting. The
Bolivian National Hydrocarbons Company (YPFB) operates its
own fleet of four small turboprop aircraft.
     Passenger and Freight Volumes - The number of domestic
air passengers has shown a rapid growth in recent years,
increasing from nearly 480,000 persons in 1975 to about
930,000 persons in 1978. LAB carried about 92 percent of
the 1978 traffic, with TAM accounting for most of the
remainder. International passengers using LAB increased
at a slightly higher rate, from 100,000 persons in 1975 to
nearly 200,000 persons in 1978.
     About 49,000 tons of goods were transported in 1978 by
domestic air transport, with the non-regular air cargo
services accounting for almost 80 percent of this tonnage.
They carry primarily meat from the lowland cattle areas of
the Beni and northern La Paz Departments to the consuming           II"
highland cities, chiefly La Paz.
Overall View
     One notable feature of Bolivia's transport system is
the absence of year-round access to large parts of the

                          -50-
                      1
                      ~
                                                                                                 LEGEND

    50       0        100   200Km .                                                   REGULAR SERVICE BY;
     I       I                I                                                                  LAB IBooinQ 727)
                                                                                                 LAB IF 27)
                                                                                                 TAM
                                                                                                 LAI
                                                                                                 LAC




     o
     ()




         ,
          o

                                                                                                                        ,        <:

                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                        \\   "
                                                                                             ~                          \.
                                                                                      <j..
                                                                                                             'i.
                                                                                  ~                     ~
                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                   :­
                                                                                                             ~
                 ()                                                  I,~                               l'
                                                            \
                 a
                                                            .\ fI   (j   E XT I :II   ,\





                                     1980 DOMESTIC AIR PASSENGER SERVICES 

                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 4-6
                       }                                           NO LAND CONNECTIONS
                                                                   ALTIPLANO
                                                                                         WITH
                                                                               DURING ENTIRE YEAR



50       0
                       ~
                       100      200Km .
 I       !
                                  I



          ~
          ttl
                       ------
           "d
             e
              =
              1:"
                 (')

                 »:




     11
     )

      o



          o
             o
                                              REP L




                                          ACCESSIBILITY FOR GROUND TRANSPORT
                                                                                                    FIGURE 4-7 

              TEMPORARY REPAIRS




          FLOOD DAMAGE
      (1979-1980 WET SEASON) )


SANTA CRUZ-CORUMBA RAILROAD
   TAPERAS ROBORE SECTION
country. As shown in Figure 4-7, 36 percent of the total
land area has no land connections at all with the rest of
the country and therefore depends heavily on river and air
transport. A substantial intermediate zone, accounting for
31 percent, finds its few access roads and paths impassable
for up to six months during and after the rainy season.
East of Santa Cruz, however, the railroad to Corumb~
generally operates during the rainy season and thus enjoys
a virtual monopoly in that corridor.

      To sum up, only one fourth of the country (with,
however, 86 percent of the population) can be considered to
have land access during the entire year. But even here,
railroads and roads are often blocked by landslides, and
river crossing are often impassable after heavy rains so
that land connections are interrupted in the rainy season
for several days at a time.

     Bolivia's International Connections - As a country
without its own seaports, Bolivia depends heavily on efficient
land connections through neighboring nations.     There are
several railroad lines linking Bolivia with seaports in
Chile, Peru (via Lake Titicaca), Brazil and Argentina. Road
connections are much more rudimentary: a very long route to
the Argentinian ports, an adequate link to the Peruvian port
and a relatively poor connection to one of the Chilean ports.
Most of these roads are unpaved, and with Brazil there is no
road connection at all.

     As a consequence of the much better rail infrastructure
available for international transport, most of Bolivia's
foreign trade uses this mode. Not including the hydrocarbon
exports by pipeline, 88 percent of all 1977 imports and exports
were carried by rail, 11 percent by road and slightly less than
1 percent by air. This subject is further discussed in Chapter 9.

     Transport to and from Bolivia via the Paraguay River is
still quite undeveloped and consists mostly of iron ore
exported from Mutun. However, the relatively low cost of
navigation makes this mode particularly attractive to Bolivia
which, because of its remoteness from the seacoast and the
associated high transport costs, has a competitive disadvantage
in selling many of its potential exports on the world market.

     Use of Existing Infrastructure - It was pointed out
that even the most heavily travelled roads are used to less
than 10 percent of their capacity, except at a few locations
on the fringe of the major cities.   The general observation
can be made that the use of existing transport infrastructure
is low for the other modes, too.



                        -51-
                                                               ,.
                                                               •
      The freight tonnage per line carried by rail averages
165,000 tons per year over ENFE's network, ranging from a
low of 9,000 tons to 500,000 tons on the most heavily used
section (R!o Mulato - Uyuni). The capacity of a single
railroad track depends on several factors, such as charac-
teristics of passing tracks, signalling, length of trains,
imbalance of transport demand and importance of passenger
traffic. It is estimated that between 3 and 5 million tons
of freight could be carried over a single-track line in
Bolivia, which again vastly exceeds current transport
demands.
     With regard to air traffic, the busiest airport in
terms of aircraft movements is Trinidad with about 38,000
takeoffs and landings per year, followed by Santa Cruz
(33,000) and La Paz (28,000). In contrast, the operational
capacity of a runway easily exceeds 200,000 takeoffs and
landings per year. Even in the case of pipelines, some
excess capacity exists; because of the falling crude oil
production, the pipelines built for the export of this
commodity are not in use continually.
     Conclusions - The foregoing demonstrates that it is
basic access and the lowering of transport costs rather than
additional capacity, that is mostly required to improve the
country's transport conditions. This may imply the
construction of new roads into currently inaccessible zones,
but these must be seen in the light of the migration that
is needed to settle them. Much more important is the
improvement of the existing infrastructure to reduce
maintenance and operating costs.




                                                               ,.
                         -52-                                  II'




                                                               ,1 ,
        CHAPTER 5

TRANSPORT COSTS AND TARIFFS
CHAPTER 5

TRANSPORT COSTS AND TARIFFS
     It was shown in Chapter 4 that transport infrastructure
in Bolivia, where it exists, is not lacking in capacity.
Everywhere outside the cities, on all four modes, the levels
of traffic are extremely low and impose no real pressure on
the capacity of the system. The genuine weakness of the
system lies in the poor quality of service and the complete
absence of facilities in some parts of the country.

     Improvements to the system should therefore be directed
almost exclusively towards higher quality of service,
including the provision of transport where there is none at
present.  In economic terms this means reducing unit
transport costs in the widest sense, i.e. reducing journey
times, vehicle operating costs, accidents, losses, unrelia-
bility, inconvenience, and the maintenance costs of the
infrastructure. Better road surfaces, railroad rehabili-
tation, all-weather runways, modern port facilities, all these
and other improvements are desirable to ease the burden of
transport, i.e. lower its economic cost, by making it faster,
easier, cheaper and more dependable.

     The evaluation of proposed improvements, particularly
where large investments are required, must therefore pay
great attention to their likely impact on transport costs.
For this purpose lengthy studies have been made of the costs,
both infrastructural and operational, of all modes.  The
results are summarized in this chapter.

     The word "cost" will be used here, unless specified
otherwise, to mean the money value of resources consumed.
This meaning may be emphasized by the terIl" "financial cost"
in contrast to "economic cost" which refers to the opportunity
cost of resources consumed. To the cOIl"munity it is econoIl"ic
costs that matter, because they express the real value of
resources, whereas to individuals and companies it is
obviously financial costs that matter. The latter are
normally passed on by transport producers to transport
consumers, at least in part, in the form of prices, rates or
taxes, which may be summed up in the word "tariffs".    It is
tariffs, rather than costs, that influence the decisions of
transport users.  The relationship between tariffs and costs
is fundamental to the economic efficiency of the transport
system.  The needs of tariff policy therefore provide a
second major reason for the following study of costs and
tariffs.
                          -53-
                                                                   •
     Finally, as the economy develops, and with it the
transport system, the financial position of transport
authorities and operators will be affected in many ways.
A study of costs is necessary for an analysis of the
financial prospects of the industry.
Treatment of Costs
     The following information was required about costs,
for each mode:
     (i)    Total financial costs, broken down into attributable
            and unattributable costs; i.e. costs are attributed
            as far as possible to specific links and types of
            services, but there are some joint costs that
            cannot be thus attributed except arbitrarily.
            Given the traffic volumes, the attributable costs
            can be expressed as average costs per unit of
                                                                   I
            traffic by type of link.
    (ii)    The effect of different infrastructure standards
                                                                   •
            on the costs of maintaining the infrastructure and
            on traffic operating costs, both financial and
            economic.
   (iii}    The impact of changes in traffic volume on costs,
            both financial and economic.
    (iv)    Construction costs: in order to estimate the
            costs of a large number of improvements, it is
            desirable to have general cost data that can be
            applied in similar situations .
     .tv}   Prediction of future changes in transport costs
            due solely to changes in productivity and real
            factor prices, i.e. the prices at constant peso
            values of labor, fuel, equipment and other factors
            used for transport.
      Shadow Prices - Shadow prices are theoretical prices
 used for goods and services where there is no market
 price or where market prices are distorted. Shadow
 prices are usually intended to measure the marginal
 costs of the goods and services in question. They are
 used where market prices are seriously different from
 marginal cost. The cost elements subject to shadow
 pricing in the context of this study were fuel and
 interest on capital expenditures. Fuel is almost entirely
 produced in'Bolivia, and its domestic market price is sub-
 stantially below the international levels that the Nat-



                          -54-
ional Hydrocarbons Company (YPFB) could command if it
were exported. Taking into consideration the costs of
domestic distribution, an average 1977 shadow price of
$b 2.50 per liter was calculated, or about 50 percent more
than the domestic retail price.

     With regard to interest, a rate of 12 percent
(in real terms, i.e. discounting for inflation) was
applied.  For all other cost components, the esti-
mated market prices were used in the analysis.

     Costs in 1989 and 1999 - Throughout most of this report,
money values are expressed in 1977 pesos. This means that,
whatever the year in question, the indicated amounts of
money represent the value of the peso in 1977. Thus the
effect of inflation on the purchasing power of the peso is
discounted by the use of "constant pesos".

     To avoid misunderstanding, two points should be noted.
First, constant pesos do not mean constant prices: the
general purchasing power of the peso remains constant but
individual prices may change. Of course, if some prices go
up, others must come down, to maintain the constant peso
value. This is important because, when the economy develops,
there must be changes in relative prices; in particular a
rising GNP per head means necessarily a rise in labor costs
relative to other costs. And, at the present time, it would
be foolish to assume that fuel prices will remain, relative
to other prices, at their 1977 level.

     Secondly, the discounting of inflation by the use of
constant pesos does not mean that inflation can be entirely
ignored in planning transport.  It has important implications
for financial planning and, when foreign loans are involved,
can affect the economic evaluation of projects. These
questions will arise later in the report.

     In Working Paper 40, a broad study was made of past
trends in relative prices, as summarized in Appendix SE.
The factors of production entering into transport were con-
veniently grouped in five categories:  labor, machinery,
fuel, other materials and construction. Figure 5-1 shows
that all five groups of costs had been rising relative to
the general price level; in other words, transport equip-
ment and infrastructure were becoming relatively more cost-
ly. However, because of increasing productivity in their
use, their higher cost did not necessarily lead to a sim-
ilar rise in the costs of transport services.




                      -55- .
                                                             •

     It was considered that some of these past trends--
supposing the base data to be reliable -- were unlikely to
continue unchanged for the next ten or twenty years. With
a little judgement, the following changes from 1977 prices
were adopted for the years 1989 and 1999:
                          1989       1999
     Labor               + 10 %     + 20    %
     Machinery           + 10 %     + 20    %                ·iIfJ

     Fuel                +100 %     +200    %
     Other materials                - 10    %


     The large increase postulated in fuel prices includes
the increases already seen since 1977. The above factors
were applied to all transport cost components in 1989 and
1999. Naturally the proportions of the five groups of
inputs vary so that the final effect of the price changes
varies from one transport mode to another.
     In road transport, for example, fuel accounts for
an average of about 10 percent of the total cost to
provide the service, or twice the proportion prevail-
ing for rail. Applying the projected increases of the
individual cost components, road transport in 1989
would be 19 percent more costly in real terms than
in 1977, and rail transport 15 percent.
     With the proposed road improvements and the
regulatory measures recommended in Chapter 16, it is
expected that the utilization of trucks will increase
substantially. It has been estimated that the average
annual kilometrage performed by the various truck
classes will increase by about 20 percent from 1977
to 1989. This increase in efficiency signifies that
road transport costs have been calculated to grow by
only 16 percent, rather than the 19 percent quoted
above.
     No similar change in operating efficiency was
projected for rail transport, so that the relative
competitiveness (in terms of economic-costs) of road
and rail transport estimated for 1989 remains virtually
unchanged from the base year. Thus, there would have
been no substantial change in the Study's analyses
and conclusions, if a general price index had been
used instead of breaking down cost increases into
their individual components.




                        -56-
      1.5




      1.0   ----------­-                              - - ­ __



en
I&J
(.)

o
z




      o.~




      o --~--------------_+----------------+_--------------~------~
                        1965                          19701975
                                                                           ..-
                                           LEG EN D

                                           COST OF LIVING INDEX
                                           OTHER MATERIALS
                               ..   --~.   MACHINERY
                                           FUEL
                                           LABOR




                         PRICE INDICES AT CURRENT RATES:
                                   1960 TO 1979
                                                                  FIGURE   5~ 1
Railroad costs and Tariffs
     Table 5-1 summarizes the financial costs of the rail
system in 1977. The Andean system cost $b 486 million
(excluding the Viacha-Guaqui line which links ~a ~az with
Lake Titicaca) and the Eastern system $b 271 m~ll~on.  It is
estimated that passenger traffic cost $b 246 million, i.e.
$b 0.627 per passenger-km, and goods traffic cost $b 511
million, i.e. $b 0.930 per ton-km; but these estimates depend
on the somewhat arbitrary allocation of common costs (the
table shows these in parentheses).

     Average costs - The financial accounting data for 1977
were broken down and analyzed to give the sort of informa-
tion required by the Study (see Appendix SA and Working
Paper 32 ). Separate data were available for 18 sections
into which the railroad system was divided, and on each sec-
tion the variable costs attributable to passengers by ferro-
bus, ordinary passenger train and autocarril, and to goods
by small load and wagon load were separated.  The remaining,
fixed costs are mostly common costs and cannot be separated
between services except arbitrarily.  For what it is worth,
however, this has been done by ENFE, based on the criteria
laid down by the International Union of Railways (UIC) as
shown in Tables 5-2 and 5-3.

       The tables show that the average variable cost per
passenger-km was 0.21 pesos by ordinary train, 0.15 pesos
by ferrobus and 0.47 pesos by autocarril.    It is of interest
that the inferior service, the ordinary train, cost more to
operate than the ferrobusi this is partly because it stops
more frequently.    The average fixed cost on the whole network
was 0.43 pesos per passenger-km, i.e. 69 percent of the total
cost.    This high percentage of fixed cost is partly due to
ENFE 1 s definition of fixed cost, which is taken from the
International Union of Railways, but also to the very low
volume of traffic.

     The average variable costs of goods traffic per ton-km
were 0.98 pesos for small loads and 0.27 pesos by wagon load,
but over 97 percent of the traffic went by wagon load. Fixed
costs averaged 0.65 pesos, or 70 percent of the total cost,
again because of very low traffic volumes. On average, over
the whole network of 3,643 km, less than two goods trains and
two passenger trains pass each day.  The unit fixed costs are
inevitably high.

     The tables also show great differences between lines.
The unit fixed costs are much higher on the mountainous
lines, like Potos!-Sucre and Oruro-Cochabamba-Aiquile, and of
course they tend to be high on lines with relatively low
traffic volumes such as Viacha-Guaqui and, again, Cochabamba-
Aiquile and Potos!-Sucre. Variable costs also show big



                        -57-
                                                                                                         •
                                          Table 5-1                                                      •
                               TOTAL RAILROAD COSTS, 1977
                                     ('lb:>usands of pesos)
                                                  ANIEAN SYS'ln1              EASTERN
                 a:>sT ITEM                Passengers     Goods     Total    SYSm·!(l)
Traffic

Handlin:] of baggage and freight
Labor
                                             14,031
                                              1,649
                                              2,252
                                                          6,813
                                                          8,579
                                                                    14,031
                                                                     8,462
                                                                    10,831
                                                                               4,520
                                                                               4,174
                                                                               5,163
                                                                                          18,551
                                                                                          12,636
                                                                                          15,994         ..
Servicin:] of trains
Interchange and rent of rolling stock
                                              5,910
                                                400
                                                          5,345
                                                         15,632
                                                                    11,255
                                                                    16,032
                                                                               6,567
                                                                              12,072
                                                                                          17,822
                                                                                          28,104          •
Buildin:Js and services, etc.                 5,460       7,605     13,065     6,347      19,412
 Traffic total                               29,702      43,974     73,676    38,843     112,519
Traction
lDcarotives, labor and fuel                  12,840      40,634     53,474    14,838      b8,312
Buildin:] and services                        1,809       6,953      8,762     3,806      12,568
  Traction total                             14,649      47,587     62,236    18,644      80,880
Polling Stock
lDcarotives, rraintenance                    11,022      18,145     29,167    12,414      41,581
Coaches, maintenance                          3,285                  3,285     2,092       5,377        ''II
Wagons, rraintenance                                      2,037      2,037     6,352       8,389
Coach building                                  515       2,190      2,705       717       3,422
Depreciation                                 17,628      25,787     43,415    22,698      66,113
Buildin:Js and services                         772       1,200      1,972     2,124       4,096
                                                                                                    ,4
  Rolling stock total                        33,222      49,359     82,581    46,397     128,978
Track
Inspection                                    (1,181)    (4,099)     5,280      628        5,908
w::>rks                                       (7,723)   (26,804)    34,527   29,268       63,795
Depreciation                                 (12,878)   (49,780)    62,658   34,039       96,697
Buildin:Js and services                       (3,172)   (11,011)    14,183   10,901       25,084
 Track total                                 (24,954)   (91,694)   116,648   74,836      191,484
Telecamunications
Signals and telecarmunications                  (291)    (1,013)    1,304       790        2,094
Buildings and services                        (1,306)    (4,531)    5,837     1,608        7,445
  Telecamu.mications total                    (1,597)    (5,544)     7,141     2,398       9,539

.Administration                              (32,736)   (72,434)   105,170   51,897      157,067
Other Depreciation                            3,051       7,556    10,607      6,649      17,256
Interest                                      (8,520)   (19,363)    27,883    31,016      58,899
                                            148,431     337,511    485,942   270,680     756,622
(1) Breakdown between goods and passengers not available for the Eastern 51'staT'.
NOl'E:    These figures exclude the Viacha-Guaqui line, mich cost Sb 32.4 milliCll, and
          the Machaearnarea-Unc!a line which is not run by ENFE. Values shown in
          parentheses refer to camon costs, azbitrarily allocated to passenger and goods
          services.

SOURCE:     Castos del Transporte Ferroviario (Costs of Railroad Transport), Working
            Paper 32, Bolivia National Transport study.
                                                                                                   .'
                                              -58-
                                                                   Table 5-2

                                             COSTS OF PASSENGER TRANSPORT BY TRAIN, 1977


                                                  OFDTImRY TRAINS                FERROBUSES                    Atl'IOCARRIIFS
                                           Annual      Av.Cost/pass-kIn    Armual    Av.Cost/pass-km    Armual      Av.Cost/pass-kIn
      SOCTION OF RAIL SYSTEM      lENGTH   Pass-kIn    Variable Pixed     Pass-km    Variable Fixed    Pass-kIn     Variable Fixed
                                   (kIn)   (OOOs)        ($b)     ($h)     (OOOs)      ($b)     ($b)    (OOOs)       ($b)      ($b)

      I.a Paz-El Alto                 17      1,908     0.47      0.98       1,378     0.29     0.60         52      1.98      7.02
      El Al to-Viacha                 25      2,907     0.41      0.76       2,027     0.24     0.46         77      1.53      5.45
      Viacha-Oruro                   204     19,225     0.29      0.46      16,546     0.15     0.22
      Oruro-Machacamarca              24      6,677     0.23      0.50         417     0.24     0.58
      Machacamarca-R:L.o Mulato      184     40,572     0.16      0.25       3,197     0.14     0.24
      R:L.o Mulato-Uyuni             105     25,870     0.20      0.31
      Uyuni-Atocha                    93     19,313     0.19      0.31
      Atocha-Villaz6n                196     27,654     0.25      0.42
 I
U1
      Viacha-charafia                207      8,608     0.18      0.39
1.0   Uyuni-lNaroa                   175      3,362     0.27      0.58
 I
      Oruro-Cochabarnba.             211     19,418     0.17      0.47      26,980     0.15     0.23
      Cochabamba.-Aiquile            216      1,514     0.84      2.71                                   1,770       0.24      0.47
      Rio Mulato-Potosi              174      6,899     0.29      0.63       2,785     0.16     0.31
      Potosi-Sucre                   175      3,601     0.20      0.84       2,346     0.27     0.62     1,998       0.85      1.06
      Viacha-Guaqui                   65                                                                   200       1.46      5.20

      Andean System                2,071    187,528      0.22     0.42      55,676     0.16     0.27     4,097       0.65      1.16

      San ta Cruz-Corurnl::>&        643     45,316      0.20     0.59      36,610     0.13     0.33     1,241       0.37      0.86
      Santa Cruz-Yacuiba             539     42,858      0.18     0.54      20,336     0.13     0.33     2,126       0.17      0.40
      Santa Cruz-Santa Rosa          104        306      0.42     6.77

      Eastern System               1,286     88,480      0.19     0.59      56,946     0.13     0.33     3,367       0.25      0.57

      G:E~.ND   'IOTAL             3,357(1) 276,008      0.21     0.47     112,622     0.15     0.30     7,464       0.47      0.90

      (1)    Excludes Sucre-Tarabuco, Uncfa-Machacarnarca, and Santa Fbsa-Yapacanf, which explains difference with Chapter 4.
      SOt.JRCE: Costos del Trans,[?9rte Ferroviario (Costs of Railroad Transr:ort), v.brking Paper 32, Bolivia National Transport
                 Study.
                                                            Table 5-3
                                  COSTS OF GOODS TRANSPORT BY RAIL, 1977



                                                          Stft..ALL LOADS                                      \'lAGON LOADS
                                                 Annual           Av. Cost/Ton-km                   Annual           Av. Cost/Ton-km
       SECTION OF RAIL SYSTEM   LENGTH           Ton-km           VariaEle Fixed                    Ton-km           VariaEle Fixed
                                  (km)           (OOOs)               ($b)           ($b)           (OO('ls)           ($b)       ($b)
      La Paz-El Alto                 17               23             2.04            3.22             1,378             0.34     0.85
      El Alto-Viacha                 25               81             1. 57           2.30             4,886             0.26     0.50
      Viacha-Oruro                  204              582             1.74            2.15            34,810             0.37     0.65
      Oruro-Machacamarca             24              165             1.33            1. 66            9,855             0.25     0.38
      Machacamarca-Rfo Mulato       184            1,263             1.45            1.78            75,722             0.31     0.46
      Rio Mulato-Uyuni              105              861             1.18            1.47            51,542             0.23     0.35
      Uyuni-Atocha                   93              319             1.61            1. 92           19,095             0.29     0.51
      Atocha-Villaz6n               196              407             1.94            2.43            24,378             0.35     0.68
      Viacha-Charaiia               207              300             2.31            2.87            17,929             0.41     0.92
      Uyuni-Avaroa                  175            1,183             0.99            1. 30           70,848             0.21     0.35
 I
O'l
      Oruro-Cochabamba              211              550             1.45            2.50            32,961             0.29     0.82
o     Cochabarnba-Aiquile           216               19             4.53           16.42             1,109             0.93     9.91
I
      Rio Mulato-Potos1             174              244             1.49            2.20            14,603             0.31     0.77
      potosf-Sucre                  175               30             6.13           11.10             1,759             1.22     6.76
      Viacha-Guaqui                  65                5             6.40           10.00             3,252             3.47     6.07

      Andean System               2,071            6,032              1.47           1. 98          364,127             0.32     0.64

      Santa Cruz-Corurnba           643            6,644              0.43           1.25           117,088             0.17      0.52
      Santa Cruz-Yacuiba            539            1,466              1.50           4.54            85,477             0.18      0.58
      Santa Cruz-Santa Rosa         104               55              0.62          12.57             1,512             0.15      3.82

      Eastern System              1,286            8,165              0.62           1.91           204,077             0.17      0.57

      GRAND TOTAL                 3,357(1)        14,197              0.98           1.94           568,204             0.27      0.61


      (1)   Excludes Sucre-Tarabuco, Uncfa-Machacamarca and Santa Rosa-Yapacanf, which explains
            difference with Chapter 4.
      SOURCE:   Costos del Transporte Ferroviario (Costs of Railroad Transport), Working Paper 32,
                Bolivia National Transport Study.


                           4i

                           "
                                         ;.)i.     "   "'.,l#   .   4...~    150.     .,...   it<    "    .,   '"   ill" ....   II, •    ••
differ~nces between lines.  The highest costs tend to occur,
not surprisingly, on mountainous lines, like Cochabaroba-Aiquile,
and on lines with very little traffic, like Viacha-Guaqui. The
Eastern system shows much lower costs than the Andean system
for goods, but not for passengers.

     Some of the differences between lines are difficult to
explain, however, and may be simply due to the statistical
process:  the figures were coropiled from aggregated accounts
and contain numerous estimates.

     Marginal Costs - Oespite the deficiencies in the data, the
comparison of costs by line showed a clear relationship between
average variable costs per ton-km and the number of ton-kro, and
similarly with passenger-km. This reflects the very low traffic
volumes on the system. At very low volumes, not only are the
track and stations grossly under-utilized, giving rise to high
fixed costs, but also the rolling stock and train crews, giving
rise to high variable costs, too. As traffic volumes increase,
the under-utilization of rolling stock and crews soon disappears
and variable costs per ton-km or passenger-km become constant.

     Given this situation in which a growth of traffic would
reduce average variable costs, it was of interest from the point
of view of tariff policy to calculate marginal variable costs.
The following results were obtained:

     passengers:   1-1 =   (V -    O. 14) (0. 7 1 - 2. 6 00 ) + O. 14
     freight:      M =     (V -    0.16) (0.28 + 0.560) + 0.16

where M = marginal cost per passenger-km or ton-km,
      V = variable cost ($b per passenger-km or ton-km), and
      o = traffic density in millions of passengers or tons.
     The equations are applicable to each line for the relevant
values of V, but may be generalized as follows:
     passengers:   M   = 0.067 e -2.600 0- 0 .29 (0.71 - 2.600) + 0.14
                                     O 560        72
     freight:      M = 0.036 e        •    0- 0 .      (0.28 + 0.560) + 0.16

     These curves are illustrated on Figure 5-2.

      Cost Functions - The operating costs suw~arized above are
sufficient for the prediction of future traffic on existing
lines and also for the evaluation of new lines, but they do
not permit an evaluation of projects for the rehabilitation of
existing lines. For this a knowledge is required of the
relationships between the quality of the track and the costs
of operating on it and maintaining it. Cost functions of this



                                  -61-
                                                                 •
                                                                 •
sort are ~for the roads as a result of extensive research        •
in other countries, but for the railroads, in Bolivian
conditions, there is little such information. Consequently,      •
cost functions had to be produced by a combination of theo-
retical deduction and judgement based on experience. Thus,
any conclusions derived from them should be treated       .
cautiously: better data could be produced by ENFE, and this
is an area where useful work can still be done in the future.
The cost functions adopted were specifically related to
three kinds of rehabilitation policy, as follows:

     Policy A: a low-cost improvement of track formation,
     with junction renewals, to permit average train speeds
     of 50 km/hour for passenger trains and 35 km/hour for
     goods trains in flat terrain, or 35 km/hour and 23 km/
     hour respectively in mountainous terrain;
     Policy B: a more costly but longer lasting operation,
     employing stone ballast, to achieve the same running
     standards as Policy Ai
     Policy C: the same improvement as in Policy B plus
     track realignment, to per~it average train speeds of
     60 km/hour for passenger trains and 40 km/hour for
     goods trains in flat terrain, or 45 and 35 km/hour
     respectively in ~ountainous terrain.
     These train speeds compare with present speeds averaging
about 40 km/hour for passenger trains and 23 km/hour for
goods trains in flat terrain, or 25 and 20 km/hour respective-
ly in mountainous terrain.
     The cost reductions expected from these policies are
given in Table 5-4. These reduction factors were applied
separately to each line.
     Tariffs - Rail tariffs charged in 1977 were obtained on
tape from ENFE for passengers and for a large variety of
commodities, for station-to-station movements. Freight
tariffs are based on a tariff book, which contains a large
number of separate tariffs for different co~modities and
different journeys, but many deviations are made from the
tariff book. Analysis of the data enabled commodities to
be placed in six groups, for each of which an equation was
produced relating the tariff to distance. The equations
did not give a very close fit to the tariff data and were
used only for commodity-links where no actual tariff was
available. The equations were as follows:




                         -62-
                                                                 ft
                I I




            I    a




                .9




                  8




                 ,7




       E
      x

       w         ,6
       '"
       "
      a.
      "-

     --
      .0



       ;;
       E
      x

       c

      "
      I-
      "-



      ,~

      I-
      '"
      0
      u




                                                                                   FREIGHT   VARIABLE
                                                                                   FREIGHT MARGINAL


                                                                                   PASSENGER VARIABLE

                                                                                   PASSENGER MARGINAL




            --+---r-----.----.----.-'------,r-----.--- -                      I         "---,----,--
                                                          .5        ,6        .7        8        .9     1.0

                                       TRAFFIC   DENSITY (M''',on Tons/Year) Or (Million Pass/Year)




                                            RAILROAD COSTS RElATED TO
                                                  TRAFFIC DENSITY
Ci)tillut !:Imil" and .;J~a(Jce'ale~                                                                          FIGURE 5-2
                               Table 5-4


            IMPACT OF REHABILITATION POLICIES ON TRAIN
            OPERATING COSTS AND TRACK MAINTENANCE COSTS
                   (ca:'culated percentage changes)


                                                REHABILITATION POLICy(1)
                                             Flat Terrain     Mountainous
         COST ITEM                           ABC              ABC
Depreciation of rolling stock

       passenger trains:                 -16      -16   -26   -22   -22     -35
       goods locomotives:                -22      -22   -30   -16   -16     -26
       goods wagons:                     -    9   - 9   -12   - 6   - 6     -10
Maintenance of rolling stock:            - 2      - 2   - 4   - 2   -   2   - 4

Crew costs

      passenger trains:                  -18      -18   -29   -25   -25     -39
      goods trains:                      -25      -25   -33   -17   -17     -29
Fuel costs:                                             - 8                 -14
Track maintenance costs:                 -18      -40   -47   -20   -34     -48



(1)    See text for definition.




                                  -63-
                                                                               ..,
NO.             COMMODITIES                  WAGON TYPE      TARIFF
                                                          ($b per ton)
 1    Minerals                               Wagon         93 + 0.45 d
 2    Refined petroleum products             Tanker       290 + 0.55 d
 3    Wood, wood products, primary and
       fabricated metals, vehicles and
       machinery                             Flat bed      21   +   0.71   d
 4    Cereals                                Box car 1     66   +   0.38   d
 5    Live animals                           Box car 2    385   +   0.35   d
 6    All others                             Box car 3     62   +   0.49   d
where d = distance in km.
     Passenger fares are related to distance but each line
is weighted to reflect its individual cost characteristics.
Track maintenance is more costly in mountainous than in flat
country, and unit operating costs are higher on the lines with
lowest traffic volumes. A weighting factor is determined for
each line and fares are calculated as a standard rate per km
multiplied by the weighting factor. The weighting factors,
which are also used for freight tariffs, are as follows:
La Paz - E1 Alto              1. 471   Uyuni - Avaroa               0.886
E1 Alto - Viacha              1.160    Oruro - Cochabamba           1.242
Viacha - Oruro                0.951    Cochabamba - Aiqui1e         1. 394
Oruro - Machacamarca          0.917    R!o Mu1ato - Potos!          1.425
Machacamarca - R!o Mu1ato     0.924    Potos! - Sucre               1.469
R!o Mu1ato - Uyuni            0.952    Viacha - Guaqui              1.108
Uyuni - Atocha                1.151    Santa Cruz - Quijarro        1. 000
Atocha - Vi11az6n             1. 398   Santa Cruz - Yacuiba         1.000
Viacha - Charana              1.048    Santa Cruz - Santa Rosa      1. 000
     In the model tests for 1989 and 1999, except for the
1989 tariff test and the final 1989 test of the recommended
system, it was decided to set tariffs equal to marginal
costs.  (The rail system is so little used that there is
little difference between short and long-run marginal costs).
As shown above, marginal costs are much lower than average
costs or actual tariffs, generally less than one third,
which led to relatively large volumes of rail traffic in
the model results. In the 1989 tariff test, in order to
demonstrate the sensitivity of rail traffic to price,
tariffs were maintained at their 1977 level in real terms,
subject to an increase of 9 percent on account of expected
changes in relative factor costs. In the test of the recom-
mended system, an intermediate tariff was assumed, lying
between marginal costs and 1977 tariffs.
Road Transport Costs and Tariffs                                               "
     Whereas railroad cost data are concentrated in the
accounts of FNFE, the same type of information for road
transport is dispersed among a multitude of operators.

                            -64-
Thus, much effort was spent on obtaining the relevant data,
as is described in a number of working papers. The National
Road Service (SNC) was the principal source of road maintenance
costs, also discussed in the following.  The basic relation-
ships of road construction costs are described in Chapter 11.
     Average Operating Costs - Six types of vehicles were
selected to represent traffic on Bolivian roads.  Private
passenger cars as such were not included (but jeeps were),
since they represent less than 7 percent of total traffic
flow, except in the immediate vicinity of major towns.
The selected vehicle classes were:

     •   Toyota Jeep, 5 seats, gasoline, 128 h.p.
     •   Medium Bus, Chevrolet 60, 26 seats, gasoline, 153
         h.p.
     •   Large Bus, Mercedes 0365, 36 seats, diesel, 145
         h.p.
     •   Small Truck, Dodge D-400/600, 4.4 tons capacity,
         gasoline, 176 h.p.
     •   Nedium Truck, Toyota F-IOO, 6.4 tons capacity,
         gasoline, 138 h.p.
     •   Large Truck, Volvo NIO or Faa, 11.6 tons capacity,
         diesel, 243 h.p.
     Cost data were obtained from suppliers and users, as
detailed in Appendix 5B and Working Paper 33. Operators of
buses and trucks are organized into syndicates, which eased
somewhat the collection of data. These syndicates are
grouped, for both buses and trucks, into interprovincial
and interdepartmental (1) operators, whose costs differ in
some respects on account of the different distances that
they cover.  In general, interdepartmental journeys are
over 200 km, interprovincial journeys less than 200 km.
This leads to big differences in annual kilometrage per ve-
hicle, which has an important effect on transport costs.
Between departments, buses average over 80,000 km a year,
trucks about 40,000 km, whereas between provinces the
corresponding averages are about 40,000 and 30,000 km.

     The diverse characteristics of the country's roads and
regional differences between supply of and demand for
trucking services lead to big variations in annual vehicle
utilization and in other factors affecting costs, from one
route to another.  These differences are hidden in the
averages used for the analysis. Table 5-5 gives details
of the financial costs of the large buses and large trucks.
Including the effect of medium buses, the average bus costs
per seat-kilometer were $b 0.18, $b 0.23 and $b 0.28 for
paved, gravel and earth roads respectively. This results
in an average for all roads of $b 0.21 per seat-km which,

(1) Interdepartmental passenger services are provided by bus
    companies rather than syndicates.


                         -65-
                                                                                                   Table 5-5


                                                                                   COSTS OF TRANSPORT BY ROAD
                                                                                       (Pesos per 1,000 km, 1977)


                                                                                                LARGE BUS                                             lARGE TRUCK
                                                    COST ITEM                      Paved         Gravel                Earth                  Paved     Gravel    Earth

                                    Fuel                                                756             790                807                  692                723                   739
                                    Oil                                                  53             106                106                   53                106                   106
                                    Tires                                               518             763             1,096                   572                843              1,211
           I                        Spare Parts                                    1,279           1,422                1,5.47                1,480          1,645                  1,790
           0'\
           0'\
            I
                                    Maintenance Labor                                   350             353                384                  499                503                   547
                                    Crew                                                762             865             1,104                   430                488                   623
                                    Depreciacion                                   1,022           1,685                2,436                 1,714          3,626                  5,796
                                    Interest                                         609                818                946                  865          1,495                  1,912
                                    Standing                                       1,070           1,360                1,685                 1,261          1,886                  2,545

                                    Total                                          6,419           8,162               10,111                 7,566         11,315             15,269

                                    Cost per Passenger-km ($b)                         0.19            0.24              0.30
                                    Cost per ton-km ($b)                                                                                       0.90               1.39              1.88




-..   ..         ""   ...ii   ,",         ~   ..J    '"   ;II   .."   .... l   ~   .     . ..   Ii..   __
                                                                                                              ..   .   ... ..    ....   .,.       -
                                                                                                                                               ., M   ...   111     ..   jJ
                                                                                                                                                                              -.,   ""     ..   .
when the observed load factor of 94 percent is applied,
converts to $b 0.22 per passenger-kilometer. (The tariffs
charged by truck and bus operators are discussed later in
this chapter.)

     For trucks, the average costs per ton-kilometer of-
fered are $b 0.57, $b 0.88 and $b 1.18 for the three types
of road surface, with an average of $b 0.77 for each ton-
kilometer offered. The observed average occupancy for
large trucks, after the exclusion of very short trips, was
63 percent, which results in an average cost per ton-
kilometer of $b 1.22.

      Vehicle Cost Parameters - As described in Working Paper
33a, operating costs for the six types of vehicle under
different road conditions were calculated from the equations
in the HDM model (2), which were based on research in Kenya
(3). Modifications were made to allow for the effects of
high altitude in Bolivia and to reflect better the costs
of spare parts and labor for maintenance. The equations
require a s~all number of parameters describing each type of
vehicle. These include eight prices: the prices of the
vehicle, a set of tires, a liter of fuel and of oil, the
wage rate for the crew and the cost of a mechanic, the
average value of time for passengers, and the rate of
interest. Other parameters describe the vehicle: by type,
fuel, horsepower, weight, standard axle equivalents, number
of passengers, annual driving hours, annual kilometers on
paved, gravel and earth roads, vehicle life on paved, gravel
and earth roads, and the percentage of standing costs to total
costs. The cost parameters are given separately in financial
and economic terms and identifying the foreign exchange
component.
     The parameters adopted for the base year, 1977, are
shown in Table 5-6. The annual kilometrage indicates how
much could be done entirely on paved roads, or gravel, or
earth and a current average, in fact, of course, most vehicles
drive on all three kinds of roads, in varying proportions.
The same applies to vehicle life. The difference between
financial and economic cost consists of taxation or, in the
case of fuel and oil, subsidy; and in the case of the rate
of interest it represents the discount for future inflation.

(2)   HDM Model, Model Description and Users Manual, Transpor-
      tation, Water and Telecommunications Department, World
      Bank, Washington, June 1979, revised January 1980.
(3)   H. Hide, S. W. Abaynayaka, I. Sayer and R. J. Wyatt,
      The Ken a Road Trans ort Cost Stud : Research on Vehicle
      Operating Costs, Transport and Road Researc Laboratory,
      Report 672, Crowthorne, England, 1975.

                          -67-
                                                                                                              1It

                                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                              0.



                                                  Table 5-6                                                       "
                                                                                                                  "
                  VEHICLE PARAMETERS ADOPTED FOR COST EQUATIONS,1977                                              "
                                                                     VEHICLE TYPE
                                                                                                                  '.
                                                                                                                  ,.
                                                     26-Seat        36-Seat              Medium

.FUel
           PARAMETER                     Jeee
                                       gasoline gasoline
                                                         Bus          Bus

                                                                    diesel
                                                                               Small
                                                                               Truck

                                                                              gasoline
                                                                                          Truck
                                                                                         gasoline
                                                                                                    large
                                                                                                    Truck
                                                                                                    diesel
                                                                                                                  ',.
BHP                                        128       153               145         176       138       243
Weight (tons)                             2.3       8.9              11.7         4.4       6.4      11.6         ".«i
Axle equivalent                           0         0.40              1.47       0.11       0.97      4.70
No. of passengers                         3.8      24.0              35.0        8.0        7.0       6.0
                                                                                                                  111\
Annual hours driven                        420     1,454             1,655         790       950     1,200
Annual kms:
 - paved roads                          25,000       88,500          89,000    37,800    41,800      50,400
 - gravel roads                         21,500       63,500          63,600    21,000    23,200      28,000       'It
 - earth roads                          20,500       53,500          55,000    16,400    18,200      21,900
                                        22,000       80,000                    28,500    31,500      38,000       .1
 - average                                                           82,000
Vehicle life (years):
 - paved roads                          13.0           8.5             7.5      12.0      12.0        11.0        0"
 - gravel roads                         12.0           7.5             6.7      11.5      11.0        10.0
 - earth roads                          11.0           6.8             6.0      10.0      10.0         8.0
Vehicle cost:financial                 223.8         529.2          1194.1     271.9     402.3      1012.1
 ($b 000) economic
           foreign exchange
                                       154.3
                                       104.3
                                                     436.5
                                                     330.5
                                                                    1071.5
                                                                     511.9
                                                                               235.5
                                                                               164.3
                                                                                         354.0
                                                                                         236.9
                                                                                                     902.4
                                                                                                     754.3         "
Cost of tires:financial                  1,464        3,090           4,170     1,464     3,090       4,791
 ($b ) eoonomic                          1,330        2,812           3,789     1,330     2,818       4,352   ,'\

        foreign exchange                   935        1,890           2,470       935     1,890       2,700
                                                                                                              .a
Cost of mechanic:financial                 130          120             116       130       120         116
($b /hour) econanic                        125          115             llQ       125       115         110
Cost of crew: financial                      10          25             39         25        25          25   ~    -,
($b /hour) econcmic                          10                24       37         24        24          24   1        0/
Cost of fuel: financial                   1.67            1.67        1.33       1.67      1.67       1.33
($b IUter) econanic                       2.50            2.50        2.50       2.50      2.50       2.50             '!
              foreign exhange
Cost of oil: financial                   12.50           12.50       12.50      12.50     12.50      12.50    ..,
($b lliter) econanic                     13.20           13.20       13.20      13.20     13.20      13.20
               foreign exhange            2.10            2.10        2.10       2.10      2.10       2.10
Value of t:irre ($b /hour)               12               5           5          4         4          4
Standing costs %: financial              15              21          21         21        21         21
                    econanic             14              20          20         20        20         20             ;~


Fate of interest % : financial           20              20          20         20        20         20
                       econanic          10              10          10         10        10         10
                       foreign exch.     12              12          12         12        12         12


SOURCE:   Costos del Transporte Automotor (Costs of Road Transport)f Working
          P~per 33 f Bolivia National Transport Study.




                                                  -68-
     Projections to 1989 and 1999 - The general treatment of
future price changes was discussed above, but specific
technological changes can also be expected to affect costs
and prices. It is expected that, with rising wages, the
employment of assistants on trucks and buses will decline
and, with rising vehicle ownership, the proportion of private
vehicles with paid drivers will also decline. Similarly,
the annual kilometrage will change for various reasons:
that of light vehicles will diminish as ownership rises;
that of buses will rise slightly as roads improve; and that
of trucks will rise substantially as utilization improves.
The life of light vehicles is expected to rise and that of
other vehicles to fall, reflecting the trends in annual
kilometrage. The foreign exchange components will be greatly
affected by the likelihood that diesel fuel will have to be
imported and by the development of a Bolivian motor industry~
the latter is also expected to lower the relative costs of
small buses and trucks. Table 5-7 shows the projection of
future costs and compares them to those of the base year.
      Road Maintenance Costs - Data on the costs of road
maintenance were availabre-from the World Bank Highway
Maintenance Project in Bolivia, 1978, and from studies by
L. F. Baquero in 1975 and the SNC in 1978. Other data came
 from recent estimates by SNC for work on the Cochabamba-Santa
Cruz and La Paz-Oruro roads. A detailed analysis of the data
is described in Working Paper 38B arid principal results are
given in Appendix 5B.

     Costs were first established for specific maintenance
operations. On paved roads, six operations were costed:
routine maintenance, patching, sealing, surface dressing,
overlaying and rehabilitation. On gravel roads there were
four operations: routine maintenance, grading, spot
regravelling and gravel surfacing; and the first three of
these are applicable to earth roads too.
     The costs adopted as typical for these operations are
given in Table 5-8 for 1977 and projected to 1985. To allow
for consistent differences found in different parts of the
country, partly caused by availability of materials, regional
factors were introduced which raise costs in Santa Cruz, Beni
and Pando, and lower them in La Paz and Oruro. The 1985
projections were needed for the HDM Model; they took into
account some improvements in organization and changes of
technique recommended by the World Bank as well as changes
in the relative prices of input factors.
     Road Tariffs - Surveys were made of truck and bus tariffs
on a sample of routes. The data were analyzed to establish
equations relating tariffs to distance, quality of road, and
department. The analysis is described in Appendix 5B and
Working Paper 33C.


                         -69-
                                                                                                           ,.
                                              Table 5-7
                                                                                                           •
                        VEHICLE COST PARAMETERS, 1977, 1989 AND 1999                                       •
                                                            VEHICIE TYPE                                   •
                                                26-Seat    36-Seat    Srrall    .Mediun      Large         11
     PARAMETER           ~            Jeep           Bus     Bus      Truck      Truck       Truck
                                                                                                           .
Financial Costs
Cost of Vehicle           1977        223.8       529.2    1194.1      271.9      402.3      1012.1
                                                                                                           ,.
($b 000)                  1989
                          1999
                                      246.0
                                      269.0
                                                  450.0
                                                  400.0
                                                           1313.0
                                                           1433.0
                                                                       200.0
                                                                       180.0
                                                                                  442.0
                                                                                  483.0
                                                                                             1113.0
                                                                                             1214.0        •
Cost of Tires             1977       1,464       3,090     4,170      1,464      3,090       4,791
($b )                     1989       1,464       3,090     4,170      1,464      3,090       4,791         11
                          1999       1,318       2,781     3,378      1,318      2,781       4,312         II/
Cost of Mechanic          1977         130         120       116        130        120         116
($b /hour)                1989
                          1999
                                       132
                                       144
                                                   132
                                                   144
                                                             132
                                                             144
                                                                        132
                                                                        144
                                                                                   132
                                                                                   144
                                                                                               132
                                                                                               144
                                                                                                           ,.
Cost of Crew              1977          10          25        39         25         25          25         41
($b /hour)                1989           5          28        43         28         28          28
                          1999           3          30        34         17         30          30
Cost of Fuel
($b /liter)
                          1977
                          1989
                                        1.67
                                        5.0
                                                    1.67
                                                    5.0
                                                              1.33
                                                              5.0
                                                                         1.67
                                                                         5.0
                                                                                    1.67
                                                                                    5.0
                                                                                                1.33
                                                                                                5.0
                                                                                                           "I

Cost of Oil
($b /liter)
                          1999
                          1977
                          1989
                                       10.0
                                       12.5
                                       17.5
                                                   10.0
                                                   12.5
                                                   17.5
                                                             10.0
                                                             12.5
                                                             17.5
                                                                        10.0
                                                                        12.5
                                                                        17.5
                                                                                   10.0
                                                                                   12.5
                                                                                   17.5
                                                                                               10.0
                                                                                               12.5
                                                                                               17.5
                                                                                                       .,.
                          1999         22.5        22.5      22.5       22.5       22.5        22.5
Eoonanic Costs
                                                                                                           "
                                                                                                       "~

Cost of Vehicle           1977        154.3       436.5    1071.5      235.5      354.0       902.4    ,iI
($b 000)                  1989        170.0       400.0    1179.0      170.0      389.0       993.0
                          1999        185.0       350.0    1286.0      150.0      475.0      1083.0
Cost of Tires             1977       1,330       2,812     3,789      1,330      2,818       4,352         't
($b )                     1989       1,330       2,812     3,789      1,330      2,818       4,352
                          1999       1,197       2,530     3,410      1,197      2,536       3,917
Cost of Mechanic          1977         125         115       110        125        115         110
($b /hour)                1989         132         132       132        132        132         132     "
                          1999         144         144       144        144        144         144     ,,.
Cost of Crew              1977          10          24        37         24         24          24
($b /hour)                1989           5          27        41         26         27          27
                          1999           3          29        32         16         29          29         "

Cost of Fuel              1977          2.5         2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5        4'
($b /liter)               1989          5.0         5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0         5.0
                          1999         10.0        10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0    r"t
Cost of Oil               1977         13.2        13.2      13.2       13.2       13.2        13.2
($b /liter)               1989         17.5        17.5      17.5       17.5       17.5        17.5        d
                          1999         22.5        22.5      22.5       22.5       22.5        22.5
                                                                                                       i   'i
Foreis::: Exchange Costs
Cost of Vehicle          1977         104.3        330.5     511.9      164.3     236.9        754.3
($b ')00)                1989         114.7        200.0     563.0       80.0     260.5        830.0
                         1999         100.0        100.0     580.0       50.0     200.0        800.0   '   ."
Cost of Tires            1977         93S        1,890     2,470        935     1,890        2,700     .       ,j

($b)                     1989         935        1,890     2,470        935     1,890        2,700
                         1999         840        1,700     2,200        840     1,700        2,430
                                                                                                       11\
Cost of Fuel             1977           0            0         0          0         0            0
($b /liter)              1989           0            0         5.0        0         5.0          5.0   , ·,1
                         1999           0           10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0         10.0
Cost of Oil              1977           2.1          2.1       2.1        2.1       2.1          2.1   i   ~t,

($b Iliter)              1989           3.0          3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0          3.0
                         1999           4.0          4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0          4.0

sotJR:E:   Costes del Transpc?rte lIlltarotor (Costs of Road Transport), Working Paper 33,             t   ~!\


           Bolivia National Transport Sttrly.
                                                                                                       I    ~I




                                              -70-                                                     fill

                                                                                                       ,·,1
GRAVEL ROAD GRADING
NEAR PUERTO VILLARROEL
                                                                                      Table 5-8

                                                                 UNIT COSTS OF ROAD MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
                                                                                (1977 pesos)

                                              1977 C(13TS                             1985 <XlSTS                                      REGICNAL FAC'roRS
                                                            Foreign                                   Foreign             La Paz/                     Sucre/Potos1/
             OPERATICN       UNIT Financial Econanic        Exchange   Financial        EconaTlic     Exchange   Cbba.    Oruro      Santa Cruz            Tarija   Beni Panek>
                                                                                                                                                                    -----
      Paved Roads
                                                                                                                                         1.10              1.00     1.10 1.10
      Routine                kIn      7,000        6,700       1,420      7,900           6,700        1,420      1.00     0.90
                              2                                                                                                          1.10              1.00     1.10 1.10
      Patch.in.g             m          101          100          50         93              92           45      1.00     0.95
                              2          13           13           8         12              13            7      1.00     0.85                            1.00     1.40 1.40
      Sealing                m                                                                                                      1. 00/1. 20 (2)
                              2          52           52          33         48              51           31      1.00     0.85                            1.00     1.40 1.40
      Surface Dressing       m                                                                                                      1. 00/1. 20 (2)
                             m
                              3       2,500        2,600       1,590      2,300           2,400        1,470      1.00     0.85     1.00/1.20 (2)          1.00     1.40 1.40
      Overlaying
      Pehabilitation (1)
I
-.J   -Surface Treat:m!:mt   kIn     489,500   497,080 303,400   440,550                447,372       281,250     1.00     0.85     1. 00/1. 20 (2)        1.00     1.40 1.40
f-'
 I    -Asphaltic Concrete    kIn   1,120,000 1,140,000 700,000 1,008,000              1,030,000       650,000     1.00     0.85     1. 00/1. 20 (2)        1.00     1.40 1.40

      Gravel Roads
      Routine                kIn      5,250        5,000       1,060      5,250           5,000        1,060      1.00     0.90          1.10              1.00     1.10   1.10
      Grading                kIn        850          870         500      1,607(3)        1,644(3)        945 (3) 1. 00    0.95          1.05              1.00     1.05   1.05
                              3         106          105          39        180 (3)         179(3)         66(3) 1.00      0.90          1.50              1.00     3.50   1.60
      Spot Gravelling        m
                              3          76           79          46        180(3)          185 (3)       109(3) 1.00      0.90          1.50              1.00     3.50   1.60
      Gravel Resurfacing     m

      Earth Roads
                             kIn      3,150        3,000         634      3,150           3,000           634     1.00     0.90          1.10              1.00     1.10 1.10
      Routine
                             kIn        680          700         400        643             660           380     1.00     0.95          1.05              1.00      1.05 1.05
      Grading
                              3         106          105          39        180             179            66     1.00     0.90          1.50              1.00      3.50 1.60
      Spot Gravelling        m


      (1) Assuming 6 meter wide highway.
      (2l The tw::> values apply to near santa Cruz City and distant fran Santa Cruz respectively.
      (3) Increase mainly due to intrcduction of watering and canpacting techniques.
      SOURCE: Costs of Road Maintenance, Working Paper 38b, Bolivia National Transport Sttrly.
     The quality of roads varies greatly, with substantial
effect on vehicle operating costs. In the context of the
road tariff analysis, the sample of routes was therefore
divided into paved and unpaved, with a third class "mixed",
formed by routes partly paved and partly unpaved. These
three classes were further divided according to their
terrain: flat, undulating or mountainous; and flat routes
were divided between the lowlands and the Altiplano.
     The interdepartmental services of both trucks and buses
were analyzed separately from the interprovincial services.
Naturally it is more difficult to relate the longer-distance
tariffs to department and terrain, since they relate to
services passing through several different regions.
     The analysis of interprovincial truck tariffs was made
separately for agricultural and non-agricultural commodities.
With both classes of tariff the standing costs, i.e. the
costs of waiting to be unloaded and loaded at each end of
the trip, were found to be significant. This cost is unrelated
to the distance of the trip or the quality of the road. It
was established at 2.4 pesos per hundredweight (46 kg -- the
usual tariff unit) for agricultural products and 0.83 pesos
per hundredweight for non-agricultural products.
     The analysis of interprovincial truck tariffs showed a
clear relationship with the quality of road. For agricultural
products the effects of road surface, terrain and department
could be detected, but for non-agricultural products only the
road surface showed up as significant. For interprovincial
bus tariffs the differences between departments were clear
but could not be isolated from differences of terrain.
      The tariff equations adopted for the 1977 model are shown
in Figure 5-3 and in Table 5-9. In the 1989 and 1999 model
tests, bus and truck tariffs were adjusted slightly upwards
to allow for rising component costs. The adjustments were
calculated by applying the component cost increases to a
breakdown of bus and truck operating costs.
River Costs and Tariffs
     There are no port facilities on Bolivian rivers, that is
to say, no quays, piers, cranes or storage buildings. River
ports are simply places where the river bank permits boats
to stop and load or unload and where there is road access.
There are therefore no port costs of any significance-apart
from the laborers who do the loading and unloading. River
costs consist almost entirely of boat and barge operating
costs, an analysis of which is fully reported in Working
Paper 34 and summarized in Appendix SC.



                          -72-
                                                LEGEND
                               y
                                       Agricultural     Products


                      28
                           1            I.
                                       2.
                                             Unpaved mountainous
                                             Unpaved undulating
                                       3.    Unpaved flat                                                         I
                      26
                                       4.    Mixed    mountainous                                                 2
                      24               5.    Mi xed   undulating                                                  3
                                       6.    Mixed    flat and paved mountainous                                 4
                                                                                                                  5
               +-
               .<=    22               7.    Paved    undulating
                .,
                0'
                                       8.    Paved flat
                                                                                                                  6
               ~
               ., 20                    Non- Agriculturol     Products                                            7
                -
               "0
                c:    18
                                        9. Unpo v ed
                                       10. Paved
                                                                                                                  8
                '"
               :I:
              "-      16
               .ci
              =-                                                                                          ~     ~9
                      14

                                                                                                                  10
               ....   12
               c
              t-
                      10

                       8

                       6

                       4

                       2

                           -+--------------~--------------r_------------~--------------_.--------------~
                           0
                                                  50                        100                     150   200
                                                                                                                  __
                                                                                                                250
                                                                                                                   Ix
                                                                                   Di stance - km




                                                                         NORMAL FUNCTIONS RELATING
                                                                           INTERPROVINCIAL TRUCK
                                                                             TARIFFS TO DISTANCE
U)fell.u~ :Jlme'llt and Aj:>oceide:.                                                                                    FIGURE 5-3
                              Table 5-9

                TARIFFS FOR TRUCKS AND BUSES,1977


                                          TARIFF EQUATION(l)


TRUCKS
Interdepartmental:                        y   =   0.036 x
Interprovincial,agricultural
 products, normal equations:
     paved, flat                          y = 2.4     +   0.064   x
              undulating                  y = 2.4     +   0.070   x
              mountainous                 y = 2.4     +   0.076   x
     mixed, flat                          y = 2.4     +   0.076   x
              undulating                  y = 2.4     +   0.081   x
              mountainous                 y = 2.4     +   0.086   x
     unpaved, flat                        Y = 2.4     +   0.086   x
              undulating                  Y = 2.4     +   0.092   x
              mountainous                 y = 2.4     +   0.096   x
These equations should be factored as follows by region:

         Altiplano     0.75
         Yungas        0.80
         Valleys       0.80
         Santa Cruz    1.25
         Pando         1.50

Interprovincial, non-agricultural
 products:
     paved                                y = 0.83 + 0.048 x
     unpaved                              y = 0.83 + 0.057 x

BUSES
Ihterdepartmental:                        y   =   0.225 x
Interprovincial:
    La Paz (Altiplano)                    y   = 0.137     x
    La Paz (Yungas)                       Y   = 0.256     x
    Oruro                                 y   = 0.140     x
    Santa Cruz                            y   = 0.181     x
    Potosi                                y   = 0.186     x
    Chuquisaca                            y   = 0.184     x
    Cochabamba                            y   = 0.180     x
    Tarija                                y   = 0.230     x
(1)  y=tariff per hundredweight, x = distance in km
SOURCE:  Tariffs of Road Transport, Working Paper 33c, Bolivia
         National Transport Study.


                              -73-
     Average Costs - A sample survey of boats on the river
Mamor~, the most important waterway within the country, was
conducted in the first half of 1979. Thirteen usable replies
were obtained. The boats used are made locally to a tradi-
tional design; trains usually consist of a motor vessel with
two non-powered barges attached to its sides. Two typical
sizes were selected as representative although there are
a variety of sizes in use. They were as follows:
                                 BOAT CHARACTERISTICS
                                 Class A     Class B

     Length (m)                    15.3         20.5
     Width (m)                      3.4          4.5
     Draft (rn)                     1.06         1.30
     Horsepower                    57           77
     Number of barges
     Length of barges (m)
                                    2
                                   20.8
                                                 2
                                               22.5             •
                                                                j
     Width of barges (m)            4.5         5.0
     Draft of barges (m)            1.2         1.4
     Capacity of boat (tons)       25          50
     Capacity per barge (tons)     51          92
     Total capacity (tons)        127         234

     The average operating costs found for these two classes
of boats are given in Table 5-10. They are divided into
fixed costs (per year) and variable costs related to the
number of hours in operation. The fixed costs came to about
$b 400,000 and $b 569,000 for Classes A and B respectively,
and the variable costs were $b 56 and $b 72 per hour.
     It is difficult to generalize about the costs per ton-km
because it varies enormously according to boat utilization
(i.e. percentage of hours spent operating), load factors
(i.e. percentage of carrying capacity used) and the speeds
possible on the river.  The costs per ton-km given in Table
5-10 are estimates for the conditions existing in 1979.
They show that costs per km tend to be less over long dis-
tances, because a smaller proportion of time is spent
waiting in port.

     Costs are considerably higher upstream than downstream
because of the difference in speed.   For example, the total
time required to navigate upstream from Guayaramer1n to
Puerto Villarroel is 220 hours, compared to 120 hours in
the opposite direction.  It can therefore be deduced that       •
the variable costs per boat-kilometer are about 80 percent
higher for upstream than downstream operation on the Ichilo-
Mamor~ River.  Because of the lower speeds, however, river
boats can operate more hours per day when moving upstream.
The total elapsed time for the Guayaramer1n to Puerto
Villarroel trip is usually about 12 days, i.e. only 20
percent above the 10 days required for the downstrea~ trip.
However, the allocation of fixed costs to either upstream
or downstream transport is somewhat academic in view of
the current underutilization of the river fleet

                        -74-
                            Table 5-10

        COST OF TRANSPORT ON ICHILO-MAMORt:: RIVER SYSTEM


                                          TYPE OF BOAT (INC.BARGES)
                                           Class A        Class B
Annual Costs per Boat (with Barges)          ($b)           ($b)

  Crew                                243,360             341,050
  Maintenance                          43,250              77,900
  Depreciation on boat                 38,400              41,700
  Interest on boat (10 percent)        18,400              31,250
  Depreciation and interest on barges 19,600               21,750
  Insurance                            35,000              51,000
  Registration                          2,350               4,000
                                          400,360         568,650

Operating Costs per Operating Hour
  Diesel Fuel                                36.0            48.0
  Oil                                         6.0             7.0
  Oil change                                  2.7             3.3
  Oil filter                                  1.2             1.4
  Grease                                      4.0             5.0
  Fees                                        6.5             7.5
                                             56.4            72.2

Estimated Cost per ton-km
Downstream
  Puerto Villarroel-Trinidad, 470 km         0.87            0.60
  Trinidad-Guayaramerin, 860 km              0.62            0.42
  Puerto Villarroel-Guayaramer1n, 1317       0.48            0.32
                                     km
upstream
  Trinidad-Puerto Villarroel                 0.94            0.65
  Guayaramer1n-Trinidad                      0.68            0.46
  Guayaramerln-Puerto Villarroel             0.55            0.36




(l)Bypassing access to Trinidad port.
SOURCE: River Transport Operating Costs and Tariffs, Working Paper 34,
        Bolivia National Transport Study.




                               -75-
      It was found that boat utilization on the Mamore was
very low. Boats operating between Puerto Villarroel and
Trinidad were spending more than 75 percent of their time
in port, and boats between Puerto Villarroel and Guayaramer!n
about 65 percent. Load factors recorded in official port
records were low, averaging about 40 percent, but probably
some cargo is not recordedi a considerable amount of undocu-
mented- imports from Brazil is known to travel up the Mamore.
It can be calculated that if time in port were reduced to        •
eight days per trip (a quite normal time in Bolivia) and load
factor raised to 60 percent, transport costs per ton-km would
be reduced to about one third of the estimates in Table 5-10.
     Given the same utilization rate and load factor, the
larger boat gives transport costs about one third less than
the smaller boat, but the question is whether the former can
indeed achieve the same utilization rate and load factor.
     There is evidence from tariff rates that the Mamore is
cheaper than the other main navigable rivers. If the rates
reflect costs, the costs on the Mamore are less than half
those on the Beni, Madre de Dios and Orthon. The reasons
for this lie mainly in the fact that the boats using the
latter rivers are much smaller than those on the Mamore.
     Other Cost Data - Since river transport in Bolivia incurs
virtually no infrastructure costs, there should be no
difference between long-run marginal and average costs of a
boat operating with reasonable utilization rate and load
factor.
     Projects to improve rivers and ports are designed to
save boats from delays and sometimes accidents, on which
there is no cost information. The impact of time saving on
operating costs is easily calculated from the data of fixed
                                                                 •
                                                                 •
and variable costs. More complex cost functions, as in the
case of road and rail improvements, are not required.
      River Tariffs - River tariffs are published by the
Bolivian Navy for the rivers Beni, Madre de Dios and Orthon.
Information about the river Mamore was obtained separately.
Their analysis showed that there was no simple, general
relationship between tariffs and distance that could be used
for modelling. Rivers run at different speeds and have           •
different seasonal patterns. The speed of a river varies
from one stretch to another. Some rivers contain hazards         •

                                                                 •
                        -76-
                                                                 •
and some can take larger craft than can others. Hence
tariffs are specific to each stretch of river and do not
conform to any simple formula. In addition, tariffs are
generally higher for upstream than for downstream transport.

     Consequently matrices were prepared, with different
tariffs in opposite directions, for the zones or sub-zones
directly linked by river transport. As there is no
significant traffic between the four important rivers,
separate matrices were defined for each as shown in
Appendix 5C.
     The published tariffs, though government controlled,
may be regarded as commercial rates which, by and large,
cover the costs of boat operation. Since there is no
capital investment in river infrastructure, and virtually
no expenditure on roaintaining the rivers, the tariffs
should reflect the economic costs of river transport quite
well. Subject to changes in co~ponent costs, the same
tariffs were used in all the 1989 and 1999 tests.
Air Transport Costs and Tariffs
      The costs of air transport are relatively straightforward
to analyze because only a small part concerns infrastructure,
and the operating costs of a given aircraft are practically
independent of the quality of the infrastructure. In fact,
air transport is the only mode for which operating costs can
be studied without reference to infrastructure. Of course,
bigger and better runways permit larger aircraft to use an
airport, with important repercussions on operating costs, but
they do not affect significantly the costs of a given type of
aircraft. When runways are put out of action by floods, which
often happens in the Beni, there could be a fall in aircraft
utilization and a consequent rise in unit operating costs,
but this does not necessarily follow.
     Scheduled Services - Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB - the
National Airline) furnished data on the four principal types
of aircraft engaged on scheduled services, both domestic and
international. They are the F-27, which is used on secondary
routes with flight times generally between 30 and 60 minutes,
the B-727-100 and B-727-200, used on international and
primary domestic routes, with flight times of about 30
minutes internally and 2.0 to 4.0 hours externally, and the
B-707, which is employed only for freight. The detailed
analysis of the data is described in Working Paper 35 and
summarized in Appendix 5D.

     The average operating costs per flying hour, as observed
for these four types of aircraft, are shown in Table 5-11.


                         -77-
                                                                            "
                                                                            •
                               Table 5-11

             COSTS OF SCHEDULED AIR TRANSPORT, 1978

                      (pesos per flying hour)
                                                                            •
                                                  AIRCRAFT TYPE
                                       F27     B727-100 B727-200   B707
                                                                            •
Depreciation and interest           3,924       9,276     16,280   11,602
Major repair and overhaul           1,082       2,510      4,108    5,182
Maintenance                         5,130       6,708      6,940    8,252   'I
Fuel: domestic                      2,358       9,042      6,944    8,124
      foreign                                   3,470      7,618    8,088
Crew                                1,594       3,516      4,300    4,020
Insurance                             324       1,062      1,498      846
Passenger services                    312       2,008      4,646
Landing fees                          398       4,124      4,906    5,436
Administration                      4,874      14,426     14,788   15,712

  Total                            19,996       56,142    72,028   67,262

  Foreign exchange component           52.3%     51.7%     71.5%    70.0%

Number of seats                          36        125       165
Number of tons                                                         40
Average flying speed(km /hour)        360          650       730      770
Seat-km offered per flying hour    12,960       81,250   120,450
Ton-km offered per flying hour                                     30,800
Cost per seat-km offered ($b)           1.54      0.69      0.60
Cost per ton-km offered ($b)                                         2.18



SOURCE:   Costos del Trans orte A~reo Re ular (Costs of Scheduled
          Air Transport , Working Paper   , Bolivia National Trans-
          port Study.




                                -78-
                                                                            •
                                                                            •
The costs per seat-km show how much more economical the larger
planes are, given enough traffic to fill them.

     The data are easily divided into fixed and variable
costs if one treats crew costs as being all variable. The
equations are as follows:

     F27             C =   10.5   +   0.0109   t
     B727-100        C =   52.0   +   0.0314   t
     B727-200        C =   89.6   +   0.0395   t
     B707            C =   80.3   +   0.0391   t

where:     C = annual cost in million pesos, and
           t = annual number of flying hours.

     Non-scheduled Services - A large variety of aircraft are
used for non-scheduled services, mostly freight transport,
and their utilization varies greatly, from almost nothing to
100 hours a month. More than a hundred routes are flown, 90
percent of them based on La Paz or Cochabamba, and most
flights take between 60 and 90 minutes. Clearly the costs
of operation vary widely and are difficult to uncover. A
questionnaire w~s submitted to a number of principal operators
and was followed up by informal interviews. Attention was
limited to the five aircraft types in most coromon use, which
are all of elderly vintage.

     The analysis is given in Working Paper 35a. The results
shown in Table 5-12 are based on the observed average route
length of 1.15 hours and utilization of 600 flying hours a
year. The costs per ton-km are complicated by the effect of
airport altitudes; take-off load capacity at La Paz and other
high airports is much lower than in the lowlands. Fortunately
the greater part of air freight is meat IPoving from the
lowlands to the Altiplano and there is no lack of capacity
in the return direction.

     Air Transport Tariffs - For air freight, tariffs were
not used in the modelling work. The passenger fares used in
the 1977 analysis were the actual fares charged by LAB and
TAM (Transportes Aereos Militares). For 1989 the following
equation was used based on 1977 tariffs:

                           y   = 73   + 0.872 x
where, y   =   fare in pesos, and
       x   =   distance in km.




                                  -79-
                                                                                •
                                                                                 •

                                                                                 •
                                  Table 5-12

             COSTS OF NON-SCHEDULED AIR TRANSPORT, 1978

                                  (pesos)
                                                                                •

                                               AIRCRAFT TYPE
                             Douglas     Douglas Curtiss convair      Martin
                              C-54        DC-6     C-46      440       404


Capital cost ($b 000)         2,574           2,760   2,600   2,380    2,410

'Ibtal cost per flying hour: 8,300        11,400      7,200   7,350    7,000

Cost per ton-hour offered:
     IDwland                 1,100            1,100   1,300   1,550    1,550

     Andes                   1,750            1,300   1,550   1,850    1,900



NOTE: Route length 1.15 hours, annual utilization 600 hours flyirq.
SOURCE: Costos del Trans orte A~reo No-re ular (Costs of Non-
        sc e u e Air Transport , Working Paper 35a, Bolivia
        National Transport Study.




                                                                               •..
                                                                               ,.

                                       -80-
     For 1999 the equation was increased slightly to allow
for increases in component costs, especially fuel, taking
into account an expected improvement in aircraft utilization.
      Airport Costs - Data o~ 1979 air?~rt c~sts were received .
froID AASANA, the National A~rportAdmin~strat~on. 'Ihese costs were
estimates, given separately for the four regions of AASANA and
broken down into six functional divisions:
     •   Runway operations and maintenance
     •   Air navigation
     •   Aircraft services
     •   Passenger services
     •   Freight services
     •   Administration.
      It is not certain how reliable this functional
breakdown is; the figures are estimates and could perhaps be
improved, but they were the only usable data available.
Table 5-13 gives the summarized data.
     An attempt was made to find statistical relationships
between these costs and aircraft IDovements during 1979, for
which good statistics are available. Aircraft were divided
by type into Classes 1 to 4 according to whether they
normally used only Class 1 airports, or Classes 1 and 2, or
Classes 2 and 3, or all four classes. The cost data were then
related to statistics of landings, passenger movements and
freight-tons moved. The analysis is described in Working
Paper 35B and summarized in Appendix 50.
     The results are subject to considerable possibility of
error and the work could usefully be refined in the future.
With this proviso, the average airport costs associated with
each flight are as follows   (only Bolivian airport costs
are included):
                                 CLASS OF AIRCRAFT
                             1         2      3       4
                                  ($b per flight)
Runway costs               1,575       262   147     110
Air navigation costs       3,750     2,250   400     237
Aircraft service costs     3,348       695   144      67
                           8,673     3,207   691     414




                          -81-
                             Table 5-13

           AIRPORT COSTS BY REGION AND FUNCTION, 1979
                         (million pesos)
                                                 REGION
                                      Santa       Cocha-
          FUNCTION         La Paz      Cruz       bamba    Trinidad    Total

 Runway operations and
   maintenance               6.5           2.9     2.8        4.1       16.3
Air navigation              18.5          11.6    10.3        8.9       49.3
Aircraft services           19.1(1)        1.9     1.0        0.8       22.8
Passenger services           6.7           2.3     1.8        0.8(2)    11. 6
Freight services             4.4           2.8     2.2        2.3(2)    11.7
Administration             10.2            5.2     6.0        4.5       25.9
                            65.4          26.7    24.1       21.4      137.6




(1) A large amount of aircraft repair and maintenance is concen-
    trated at La Paz; the cOpt covers much more than the inci-
    dential needsof aircraft on routine flights through La Paz.
(2) An adjustment was made between passenger and freight services
    at Trinidad.
                                                                                •
SOURCE:     Airport Costs and Tarrifs, Working Paper 35b, Bolivia
                                                                                "
            National Transport Study.




                                                                                •
                                   -82-                                         •
                                                                                •
                                                                                •
     plus,

     Cost per international passenger:     $b    36
     Cost per domestic passenger:          $b     7
     Cost per ton of freight:              $b   458.

     Thus a B-707, with 150 passengers, flying into Bolivia
from abroad would be allocated airport costs of $b 9,736 for
the Bolivian end of the flight. A B-727, with 100 passengers,
flying within Bolivia would be allocated $b 3,907, and an
F-27 carrying 2 tons of freight within Bolivia would be
allocated $b 1,330.

     Airport Tariffs - Charges for transport services at
airports are of four kinds:

     e Landing fees
     $ Air navigation charges
     • Aircraft parking
     • Passenger airport taxes.

     Landing fees, shown in Appendix 5D, are related to the
category of airport and maximum gross weight of the aircraft.
International flights pay more than domestic.  International
charter flights pay a surcharge of 50 percent on the standard
rates.  There are separate charges for domestic meat carriers
and air taxis. A surcharge of 30 percent is applied to
operations between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. and on Sundays and
public holidays.

     Flights using Bolivian airports pay air navigation
charges according to the following formulae:

     International Flights:         $b   0.255 n d..JW
     National Flights:              $b          30VW

where: n   = number of radio aids available on route,
       d   = distance flown over national territory, in
            nautical miles,
       W = maximum gross weight in tons.

     The landing fee entitles an aircraft to stay up to six
hours. Afterwards there is a surcharge for aircraft parking
of 40 percent for each 24 hours or part thereof.

     International passengers pay an additional airport tax
of $b 250 when boardingi domestic passengers pay $b 18.




                          -83-
     All the above charges, except passenger airport taxes,
are automatically included in aircraft costs and passed on
in fares and freight charges. In the model, therefore, only
passenger airport taxes were included.
Pipeline Costs

     Cost data were estimated for refined product pipelines,
as shown in Working Paper 22 and in Appendix SE. Capit.al
and operating costs are both·affected by mountainous tei-
rain. tn.order to produce typical figures for Bolivia
capital and maintenance costs have been estimated for' mount-
ainous terrain of medium difficulty in construction. Operat-
ing costs have been calculated for pipelines in flat terrain
assuming a pipeline-use factor of 15 percent.
     The data given in Table 5-14 are a guideline and must be
modified if the pipeline terminates at a higher elevation than
its origin. The pump power required to perform the lift is
estimated at 4 h.p. per 100,000 cubic meters per year for
each 100 meters lift. The capital cost of pumping facilities
needed to perform the lift is estimated at 15,000 pesos per
horse power. The transport costs in the table would rise by
0.02 pesos per barrel or 0.12 pesos per cubic meter for every
100 meters lift. If a pipeline falls in elevation the costs
will be reduced in the same order as just described.




                                                                 •



                                                                 •
                                                                 •
                                                                 •
                                                                 •
                        -84-
                                             Table 5-14


                               FINANCIAL TRANSPORT COSTS BY PIPELINE, 1977

                                                   TRANSPORT COST PER 100 KM.
                QUANTITY                     Total Cost                  Unrt Cost
           BPD{l)     Cu.m./year         Fixed      variafile      variaOIe- -     Total
                                           ($b OOO/year)            ($b /eu.m./100 km)

     4-ineh diameter

       5,730            332,500          8,940        4,120          12.4           39.3
       4,500            261,100          8,580        3,760          14.4           47.3
       3,000            174,000          8,340        3,540          20.3           68.3
I
00     2,000            116,000          8,200        3,480          30.0          100.7
U1
I
     6-ineh diameter

      16,660             966,700        13,420        5,400           5.6           19.5
      13,000             754,400        12,900        4,400           5.8           22.9
       9,500             551,300        12,380        3,800           6.9           29.4
       5,000             290,200:       11,940        3,480          12.0           53.1

     8-ineh diameter

      32,600           1,891,700        31,100        8,740            4.6          21·1
      25,000           1,450,700        22,000        7,140            4.9          20.1
      18,000           1,044,500        19,300        5,960            5.7          24.2
      12,000             696,300        18,620        5,280            7.6          34.3
       6,000             348,200        18,400        5,140           14.8          67.6


     (1)    Barrels per day.
     SOURCE:    Existing Pipeline Charagteristies_, Working Paper 22, Bolivia National
                Transport Study.
      CHAPTER 6

THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK
OF THE TRANSPORT MODES
CHAPTER 6

THE FINANCIAL
FRAMEWORK OF THE TRANSPORT MODES
     The costs of transport facilities are borne initially
by the agencies, companies and individuals who provide them.
The costs must be recovered, else the service will break
down, and tariffs are the principal means whereby this is
done. But tariffs have a big influence in determining the
volume of traffic and choice of service. Ideally -- and
this will be the subject of Chapter 17 -- tariffs should be
designed to induce the optimal use of the transport system,
maximizing the surplus of benefit over cost; but these
tariffs may fail to recover costs fully, or they may yield
an excessive profit. The careful application of grants,
subsidies or taxes can help to reconcile the aims of tariff
policy with the need of each financially independent unit
to balance its books. A source of finance must also be
found for capital investment. In short, a financial frame-
work is needed to enable the transport industry to follow
efficient policies of pricing and investment. Th;s chapter
examines the present financial framework.
The Roads
     Financially, the roads are the most complex part of the
transport system because there is no generally accepted way of
charging for their use. The National Road Service (SNC) is
the agency responsible for all the roads covered by this
Study, and its annual expenditure is summarized in Table
6-1. At this stage in the development of road transport in
Bolivia, it is not surprising that about 71 percent of SNC
expenditure between 1976 and 1979 was on construction, 9 per-
cent on improvement and only 20 percent on maintenance.
      In 1976-79, 63 percent of SNC revenue came from the
 Treasury and 31 percent from lending agencies. Little more
 than 1 percent came directly from road users. It is quite
 reasonable, in view of the high expenditure on investment,
 that much of this should be financed by borrowing. The di-
 rect contribution from road users comes largely from transit
 tolls but the revenue of $b 9.83 million in 1979 only just
 exceeded the cost of running the transit posts. Indirectly,
 road users pay far more, through fuel tax and customs duties
'on vehicles and vehicle parts. These payments do not go
 directly to SNC but are certainly user charges. Table 6-2
 shows these user charges. Vehicle owners also pay annual
 registration fees to municipal authorities but these are
 used for local roads and are therefore not included in the
 table.
                          -87-
                                   Table 6-1                                           ..
                                                                                       •
                       EXPENDITURE AND INCOME FOR ROAD
                                                                                      .
                                                                                      •
                   CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE, 1976-79

              EXPENDITURES        :1976
                                        MILLIONS OF CURRENT PESOS
                                              1977      1978      1979
                                                                                      ..
                                                                                      •
: Maintenance
                                                                                      ..
   - Permanent
   - 'n:Ircfx::lrary
                                    139.26
                                     23.26
                                                199.91
                                                 25.09
                                                            224.96
                                                             25.85
                                                                         263.07
                                                                          33.83
                                                                                      •
   - Special                          6.03        6.02
                                                231.02
                                                             19.61
                                                            270.42
                                                                          34.42
                                                                         331.32       •
         Subtotal'                  168.55
                                                                                      •
                                                                                      ..
   - Studies
   - Local improvements:
       i) Regular program
                                      0.09

                                     29.69
                                                  0.29

                                                 34.56
                                                              0.32

                                                             34.25       32.36
                                                                              0.34
                                                                                      .•
      ii) With third parties          5.87        4.73        7.28        4.54
     iii) Special program            29.82       55.93       78.04      113.86
                Subtotal             65.47       95.51      119.89      151.10
                                                                                      .dI
Construction
   - S'bldies                       16.64         9.05       22.65        33.81
                                                                                     ..
   - Major improvements            178.92       236.25      223.72       235.47
   - New roads                     232.61       592.51      896.78       807.06
        . Subtotal                  428.17      837.81    1,143.15    1,076.34
           GRAND 'IOTAL            662.19     1,164.34    1,533.46    1,558.76
                   m::x:ME                                                           •
                                                                                     ...
National Treasury COntributions 535.56
Special COntributions
                                                864.23      890.21      827.19
                                                                                     .
  - Fram domestic institutions    1.63            4.33      124.86       22.38
  - Fram foreign institutions     0.95           10.21        2.68       '30.15
 Credits from IDB and similar
                                                                                     •
                                                                                     •
    institutions
  Specific taxes
                                133.88          297.43      505.83       580.83
                                                                                     .
  - 'lblls                        8.33            9.04        9.63        9.83
  - Road Service If=vy (1)
  - La Paz agricultural custans
  - Chba.agricultural custc:ms
                                  2.52
                                  1.46
                                  2.05
                                                  2.67
                                                  1.51
                                                  2.42
                                                              2.33
                                                              0.42
                                                              2.76
                                                                          1.90
                                                                          1.34
                                                                          3.92
                                                                                     ..
 Other incorce                    2.78           12.14        8.99        6.12
    'lbtal                      689.16        1,203.98    1,547.71    1,483.66
 Danestic Source                554.33          896.34    1,039.20      872.68
 Foreign Source                 134.83          307.64      508.51      610.98

 (1)   'lax levied on residents in lieu of three days of road work required
                                                                                     ..
       annually by law.
sa:JRCE:  Annual Balances of the National Road Service (SN:).

                                 -88-                                                ..
                                                                                     .
                            Table 6-2

                 ROAD USER CHARGES, 1976-79
               (excluding municipal charges)

                                     MILLIONS OF CURRENT PESOS
                                   1976    1977    1978    1979

Gasoline tax                       7.0.7    75.5     81.4   102.0
Diesel tax                          8.3     10.2     11.6    18.9
Customs duty, vehicles         281.1       201. 7   274.6   442.4
Customs duty, tires and             5.8      4.6      7.7     8.1(1)
  tubes
Customs duty, spare parts           2.0      1.6      1.8     2.1 (1)
Direct payments to SNC             14.4     15.6     15.1    17.0

  Total                        382.3       309.2    392.2   590.5


(l)  Estimates
SOURCE: Diez Anos de Estad!stica Petrolera, 1970-1979 (Ten
         Years of Petroleum Statistics), YPFB; and import
         Perrni ts.




                            -89-
    Road user charges increased dramatically in 1979 and will
                                                                       .•
rise sharply again in 1980. In the three years 1976-78 they
amounted to $b 1,084 million which comfortably covered the
$b 951 million spent on the maintenance and local improvements,
(such as straightening of curves or building of small bridges).
                                                                       ...
The largest source of this revenue is customs duty for vehicles,
of which 72 percent was paid for passenger vehicles and 28 per-
cent for goods vehicles. This subject is further discussed in
                                                                       •
Chapter 17, together with the formulation of a recommended policy
for road user charges. More information on current road use-
charges is presented in Appendix 6A.                                   •
    Truck and Bus Operators - All trucks and most buses operat-
ing a public service within Bolivia, are privately owned by small      •
companies or individuals organized in syndicates. The syndicates
are strong and obviously endeavor to maintain tariffs at a pro-
                                                                        •
fitable level. On the other hand, tariffs and fares are con-
trolled by central government authorities.
     It is difficult to discover the true financial position of
these private operators. There are no published financial balance
sheets and an investigation depends upon personal contacts with
                                                                       ...
operators, who are often reluctant to discuss the matter. For
many of the smaller operators, it must be doubted whether they
themselves have a coherent view of their own financial position.
                                                                       •
     Some figures were obtained, and are presented below (for 1977):
SERVICE          ROUTE          INCOME     COSTS      DEFICIT
                                                                       ..
                                                                       .
                                      (thousands of 1977 pesos)
Large Bus       La Paz-Oruro      466      590          144
                La Paz-Potosi    459      665           206
                La Paz-Tarija    543      609            66            •
                                                                       •
Large Trucks     (General)       364      458            94
                                                                       •
Medium Trucks    (General)       189      265            76            .
                                                                       •
     That is to say, poor results were obtained by all types of
operators of inter-urban transport.
     However, for both passenger and freight transport, income
shown in this table is an underestimate. Additional income is
                                                                       '•.
obtained for trucks for transport between intermediate points           ,.
(12 percent of the income shown in the table) and for passenger
transport, from the transport of small packages (2 to 5 kg) and
documents. Costs were also reduced by postponement of vehicle
servicing (only really possible with new vehicles) and amorti-
                                                                       ..
                                                                       •
zation and avoidance of custom duties.
     Since 1977, two changes have occurred~ a rise in the price of     •
                                                                       .,
fuel in December 1979 and a further rise in the price of fuel,
and also lubricants, in July 1980. These are summarized as
follows:                                                               •
                                -90-
                                                                       •
                                                                       tilt
                                                 Year
                                        -------.;;;..=--_._--
ITEM                                     1977      1979            1980
Price of fuel     ($b   liter)
    - diesel                             1.5       4.0             6.0

    - gasoline                           1.5       2.5             6.0

    - lubricants                        12.0      12.0            lS.~

Exchange Rate in pesos per US$          20.0      25.0            25.0

     These price rises were accompanied by raises in te..rL"'fs!
as follows:

ITEM~   ____________________________                   YEAR
                                        1979                        1980
Increase in tariffs
    - interdepartmental                 + 45 percent          + 25 percent

    - interprovincial                   + 35 percent          + 20 percent

     Following these two modifications, the financial situation
of the road transport operators is much improved with a balance
between costs and income.

The Railroads
    The annual expenditures and income of ENFE for 1976-79 are
given in Table 6-3, excluding new investment. Operating costs
in this period comprised about 64 percent of total expenditure,
the remainder being accounted for by depreciation, interest and
taxation. The depreciation costs included here are higher than
those normally calculated by ENFE, but have been accepted as
being more realistic. Interest charges leaped from $b 24 million
in 1976 to $b 166 million in 1979, i.e., from 4 percent to 20
percent of earned income. Taxation took another 8 percent.
    Table 6-3 also shows that freight provides 88.5 percent of
earnings, passengers only 11.5 percent. ENFE is supposed to
cover its own costs out of income. During 1976-79 there was a
deficit rising from $b 88 million (12.1 percent] in 1976 to
$b 309 million (27.1 percent) in 1979.
    Of total earnings, 46.0 percent came from import traffic
and 19.2 percent from export traffic. Domestic freight contri-
buted 16.7 percent, other freight-related services 6.6 percent
and passengers 11.5 percent. The importance of international
freight traffic to the railroads should be emphasized; without
it they could not continue to operate. It is probable that much
of this international traffic would be relatively insensitive
to rises in tariffs.

                                 -91-
                            Table 6-3


  EXPENDITURE AND INCOME OF NATIONAL RAILROAD COMPANY, 1976-79
                                        MILLIONS OF CURRENT PESOS          •
           EXPENDITURE              1976      1977     1978      1979
                                                                           •
Operations:
                                                                            •
  Administration
  Traffic
                                     66.7
                                    121.7
                                              86.1
                                             134.9
                                                      128.4
                                                      143.3
                                                                134.2
                                                                163.1      •
  Workshops                          97.8     99.9     77.3      93.2      •
  Signalling                         76.3     75.9     95.5      95.0
  Track                             111.9    109.8    177.7     193.2
  Signals and Telecommunica-          9.7     11.1     15.3      16.9
    tions
                                                                           ,.
                                                                           .•'.
    Subtotal                        484.1    517.7    637.5     695.6


Depreciation

  Track and installations            86.9     99.7     86.8     106.6
  Rolling stock                      82.2     80.3     86.6     110.5      .-
Interest                             24.1     58.9     85.1    166.5       ..
Taxes on traffic                     41.8     47.2     62.1      52.2

Income tax

  TOTAL EXPENDITURE
                                      7.1

                                    726.2
                                               8.3

                                             812.1
                                                        9.0

                                                      967.1
                                                                    9.3

                                                               1140.7
                                                                            .•
     INCOHE
                                                                           .•
Passengers (1)
Freight (1)
                                 78.4
                                509.4
                                             87.9
                                            587.5
                                                       92.4
                                                      665.9
                                                                88.2
                                                               659.6      ..•
                                                                          ...
Baggage and parcels              13.2        15.5      20.8     25.1
Freight services                 37.3        52.0      36.8     58.9

  TOTAL INCOME                  638.3       742.9    815.9     831. 8
(DEFICIT)                       (87.9)      (69.2)   (151.2)   (308.9)
    - as percent of total
        expenditure             (12.1%)     (8.5%)   (15.6%)   (27.1%)    i.
(1) Including Tax
SOURCE: Planning Department, ENFE; and Social Security Fund
        of Railroad Employees                                             ..
                                                                          ...
                             -92-
     Of passenger earnings, two thirds came from ferrobus
and first-ciass (pullman) services. With growing competition
from road transport and aircraft, the prospects for this
class of traffic cannot be good unless services are improved.
      New investment and capital replacement have been fin-
anced by borrowing since the beginning of the rehabilitation
plan in 1972 agreed with the International Development
Association. Loans have been received of SUS 71.7 million
from the World Bank, SUS 15.4 million from Japanese suppliers
and SUS 10.8 million from various other suppliers. Credits
of SUS 29.3 million have been given by the Treasury and
Central Bank. These loans amount to SUS 127.2 million or
$b 3,180 ~illion. Repayment is due to extend over the
next 40 years, with a peak of $b 288 million due in 1982,
assuming that no further loans are contracted in the mean-
time.
     Clearly ENFE is in a position of acute financial
difficulty. Traffic receipts in 1979 were disappointing
and there can be no reason for optimism in the next few
years. There must soon be either a big change in tariffs,
which might not remove the deficit, or a change in ENFE'S
financial obligations. Chapter 17 describes the study's
recommendations for a future tariff policy. More infor-
mation on current rail finances are presented in Appendix 6C.

River Transport
     River craft are privately owned and their tariffs are
controlled by the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
It is extremely difficult to discover the true financial pos-
ition of the operators. Their costs are dominated by the cap-
ital costs of boats and barges, which cannot be established with
any accuracy. Incomes almost certainly include items that do
not enter into the accounts because of the likely occurrence of
unrecorded trade.
     The situation on the Mamor~ may be indicative. Tariffs
were fixed in 1974 and remained unchanged until 1980 when,
after a petition by boat owners, they were substantially
raised. Between 1974 and 1980 the Bolivian retail price
index rose by 80 to 90 percent, and it is difficult to see
how boat operators survived unless they were making large
profits in 1974 or else receiving tariffs above the official
rate. Even at the end of the period, just before the tariffs
were raised, there appeared to be excess capacity on the
Mamore and no sign that operators were going out of business.
     In the circumstances it would be difficult without an
in-depth study of all relevant factors to corne to a view
about the true financial position of this sector.


                           -93-
                                                                  ..
Air Transport
     As described in Chapter 4, domestic transport services
are provided by several airlines, the most important of which
is Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB). The operation of the major
airports is in the hands of another Government agency, AASANA.
The following paragraphs discuss the current financial
situation of LAB and AASANA.                                      •
                                                                  •
      Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB) - Expenditure by LAB in
1978 and 1979 is summarized ~n Table 6-4. Over 80 percent
of expenditure is related to passenger traffic. No further
details of operating expenditure are published by LAB.
A large additional item is the servicing of debt, which
jurr@ed from $b 104 million in 1978 to $b 225 million in
                                                                 ..
                                                                  liP
1979, Le. from 11.6 percent to 18.1 percent of operating
costs.

     The data on income given in the same table show a big
increase in passenger revenue, from $b 694 million in 1978
to $b 954 million in 1979, while freight revenue declined
from $b 237 million to $b 205 million. Total earned income
exceeded operating costs by 12 and 8 percent in 1978 and
                                                                 .
                                                                 •
1979, respectively. However, because of the large debt
payments, earned income fell 9 percent below total expenditure
in 1979.

     International flights contributed 73 and 74 percent of
income in 1978 and 1979, respectively.
                                                                 .•
     The deficit was partly covered by taxes on tickets and      •
freight.  International tickets pay a tax of 13 percent,         •
domestic tickets 4.2 percent. Freight pays 4 percent if
international, 4.2 percent if domestic. For the National
Airline alone, these taxes produced $b 34.3 million in 1978
and $b 51.4 million in 1979, which LAB was allowed to retain.
                                                                 ..
                                                                 •
     A number of routes, particularly in the north of the
country, are designated "unremunerative routes" and are
                                                                 •
eligible for subsidies from the government.  In 1978 and
1979 LAB estimated the loss on these routes at $b 80 million
of which 29 percent was accounted for by Riberalta, 24 percent
                                                                 •
                                                                 ,.
by Guayaramerin and 10 percent Oruro, but this estimate has
not been agreed to by the Government.

     LAB's indebtedness really dated back to the inauguration
of the international routes to Miami and Buenos Aires. Be-
tween 1975 and 1979, some $b 1,310 million has been borrowed,
90 percent of it from abroad, principally for the purchase of
                                                                 .
new aircraft. The outstanding debt at the beginning of 1980
was $b 923 million.
                                                                 ..
                                                                 •

                           -94-
                                                                 .•
                                                                 •
                                                                 •
                             UNLOADING ON THE ROAD NEAR
                             TRINIDAD IN THE HIGH-WATER
                             WET SEASON




PUERTO ALMACEN IN
   THE DRY SEASON




                              THE DRY SEASON PORT OF PUERTO
                              VARADOR (BOLIVIAN NAVY
                              PETROL BARGES BEING
                              UNLOADED)




           RIVER PORTS AT TRINIDAD
                             Table 6-4


 EXPENDITURE AND INCOME OF LLOYD         AEREO   BOLIVIAN~   1978-79

                                             MILLIONS OF CURRENT PESOS
               EXPENDITURE                          1978          1979
Passengers, including servicing of debt            815.1       1,198.9
Freight, including servicing of debt               189.4          212.7

Other services                                       0.3               0.3

Less servicing of debt                           - 104.4       - 224.7
Operating costs                                    900.4       1,187.2
Servicing of debt                                  104.4          224.7

Total expenditure                                1,004.8       -1,411.9


           INCOME
Passengers                                         693.8         953.9
Excess baggage                                      27.5           72.7
Mail                                                 3.2               3.9
Freight and parcels                                236.7         205.2
Other                                               50.7           50.4

  Earned income                                  1,011.9       1,286.1
  Retained taxes                                    34.3           51.4
       Total                                     1,046.2       1,337.5

    PROFIT (DEFICIT)                                41.4          (74.4)
          - as percent of total expenditure          4.1%          (5.3%)


SOURCE:    Planning and Economic Analysis Division and Cost
           and Analysis Division, Lloyd A~reo Boliviano.

                             -95-
                                                                    II




In order to correct the poor financial situation, domestic
fares for LAB were increased in early 1981 approximately
40 percent (but there were regional deviations). This
change came too late for detailed analysis by the Study,
but it is thought that the increase has corrected LAB's
financial position.                                                •
     National Airport Administration (AASANA) - Expenditure
and income-Xor AASANA are shown in Table 6-5 for 1978. The
figures differ from those published by AASANA for deprecia-
tion and interest, but are based upon detailed calculations
carried out by the Study. It is clear from the table that
AASANA was in a very grave financial position if true
                                                                   .
account is taken of depreciation and interest payments which       •
approximate $b 48 million, 30 percent of the total. Indeed
on the income figures provided by AASANA, the institution
was unable to cover even its operating costs, yielding a
17 percent deficit on these alone. The table also reveals
a distortion in the make-up of payments to AASANA related
to costs: the income from passengers and landing fees far
                                                                   ..
                                                                   •
more than covers the cost of providing these services--both
categories serve to subsidize the low tariff charge for
flight services, which cover only 15 percent of their own
costs.                                                             .
                                                                   •
     AASANA is supposed to cover all its costs, including
those arising from new investment, out of income. This it
has found impossible to do in view of the high cost of
                                                                   ..
                                                                   •
providing adequate aeronautical facilities on the relatively
low volumes of traffic using the airport system. However           .
                                                                   •
the picture has somewhat improved recently: in December 1979
a 65 percent increase in tariffs was approved. This, on
the basis of the half-yearly figures available for 1980,
should allOW AASANA to easily cover its operating costs,
                                                                   ..
                                                                   ..
and come close to meeting its financial charges. However,
if total costs are to be covered (as defined on an adequate        •
basis), further increases may be required.                         •
     More information on current AASANA finances is presented in
Appendix 6B.
                                                                   •
                                                                   .
                                                                   •
                                                                   ..
                                                                   -
                                                                   ..
                                                                   •

                                                                   ..
                          -96-
                                                                   .
                         Table 6-5

             EXPENDITURE AND INCOME OF AASANA
                       ($b million)

            COSTS                           1978
Operating Costs:
  Runways                                   15.69
  Flight Services                           80.78
  Passenger-related Services                16.32

Total Operating Costs                      112.79
Depreciation and Interest                   48.00

Total Expenditure                          160.79

            INCOME
Runways                                     58.14
Flight Services                             12.21
Passenger-related services                  25.83

Total Income                                96.18
 (DEFICIT)                                  (64.61)
    - as percent of total expenditure       (40.2%)

SOURCES: AASANA and National Transport Study.




                            -97-
     CHAPTER 7

THE BOLIVIAN ECONOMY
CHAPTER      7

THE BOLIVIAN ECONOMY
     The purpose of the transport system is to satisfy econo-
mic and social needs for accessibility, and it is the econo-
mic needs that form the main object of this Study. No one
could deny that the needs of the economy for cheap, efficient
transport are being met inadequately and in some places not
at all. But the places in greatest need of improvement, from
the economic pOint of view, are not always obvious. An essen-
tial part of planning improvements to the transport system is
to analyze the national economy, and in particular those as-
pects giving rise to a demand for transport, and to make a
forecast -- or if that is too difficult, a set of alternative
scenarios -- of its long-term development.
Socio-Economic Factors Affecting Transport Demand
     The demand for long-distance transport, as distinct from
local transport, arises from people's wish to travel or send
goods between different parts of the country, or abroad, and
their ability to pay for it. It thus arises principally from
the geographical distribution of population and economic ac-
tivities, and from income levels. The leading factors may
be defined as:
     (i)   The size and distribution of population.
    (ii)   The size and distribution of the urban population,
           because urban areas tend to generate much more traf-
           fic per head than do rural areas, even when incomes
           are equal.
   (iii)   The cash incomes of the population, urban and rural,
           by area.
    (iv)   Distribution of industry -- primary, secondary and
           tertiary .. - by area; in Bolivia, where non-agricul tu-
           ral development is small and scattered, it is de-
           sirable to know the specific location of the principal
           factories, oil wells, mines, mills and other plants.
     (v)   Demand for industrial inputs; an important part of
           national freight traffic consists of raw materials
           and semi-finished products required by industry,
           i.e. traffic moving between different industries;
           this is the most difficult demand factor to measure
           and analyze.

    (vi)   Imports and exports.
                           -99-
                                                                     ,   \




       In order to analyze and forecast these socio-economic
factors, and to introduce them quantitatively into the na-
tional transport model, it is convenient first to study and
forecast the national economy as a whole, with regard to broad
regional trends, and then to distribute methodically the
resulting national or regional figures between the 77 analysis
zones (defined in Chapter 3). This work has been presented at
length in eight working papers, and some of the principal find-
ings are included in Appendices 7A, 7B, 7C and 7D of this
Report. Working Paper 46 gives a comprehensive appraisal of
the Bolivian economy today. Working Paper 45 considers its
prospects over the next two decades and -- drawing on the Study
Workshop described in Working Paper 44 -- identifies major
development opportunities, which are quantified in Working
Paper 47. The steel industry is treated separately in Working
Paper 48. Because of the great uncertainties ahead, however,
three alternative development patterns (or scenarios) are for-
mulated in Working Paper 46a, drawing on the various development
opportunities in different ways. Then Working Paper 41 presents
the socio-economic statistics, at the national level, for 1977
with forecasts for 1989 and 1999, and these are developed at the
zonal level in Working Paper 49 for analytical use.

The Bolivian Economy in 1980

       Bolivia is rich in natural resources. The size of France
and Spain together (but with only six percent of their popula-
tion) , the country contains a wide variety of climates, soils,
vegetation and geological structure. Some 87 percent of the
land is suitable for agricultural production; 1 percent is used
for farming and about 40 percent for extensive cattle raising.
Virtually every type of crop, from tropical to temperate, can
be grown. There are vast areas suitable for livestock of every
kind. Enormous forests contain large supplies of valuable tim-
ber and, although the country lacks sea coast, it possesses
large rivers and lakes well stocked with fish.
                                                                    "
      Despite this abundance of agricultural potential, Bolivia
is better known for her wealth in minerals. Practically every
valuable mineral is produced, except coal and bauxite, and even
the latter is thought to be available. The one important mineral
that is lacking is coal, but this is compensated for by substan-
tial reserves of oil and natural gas.

      These generous resources are the heritage of a compara-
tively tiny population -- about 5 million -- and lack of man-
power in some regions is doubtless one reason why the natural
potential of the country remains largely untouched.  In 68
percent of the country, this being mostly in the lowlands, the
population density is less than 1 per square kilometer, and in _
85 percent of the country it is less than 5 per square kilometer.
                                                                    .e



                          -100-
Agricultural output is a small fraction of the physical poten-
tial, and mineral production, apart from tin and antimony,
could also be very much larger. Known oil reserves have been
substantially exhausted but much exploration for new reserves
remains to be done. Meanwhile the exploitation of natural gas
is at an early stage. A small amount of light industry to sup-
ply the domestic market has been established in La Paz, Santa
Cruz and Cochabamba.
     Shortage of manpower, however, is not the main reason
for lack of development. Indeed nearly a million Bolivians
appear to have emigrated since 1950, for lack of opportunity
in their home country. The main obstacles to development are
geographical and historical. The terrain makes transport ex-
tremely difficult and costly, both in the mountains, for ob-
vious reasons, and in the flat lowlands where large, shifting
rivers have to be crossed and huge areas are frequently flooded.
But even if the produce of the country could be moved easily,
there are few markets for them. Bolivia is surrounded by
similarly vast and empty areas whose few inhabitants can pro-
duce much the same agricultural commodities themselves and,
until recently, had little use for Bolivia's minerals. Her
position in the heart of South America, thousands of miles
from the big markets for agricultural and mineral products,
has not encouraged development.

      The course of history has led to numerous handicaps of
which four may be mentioned. For various reasons, among which
the desire to avoid tropical diseases was important, the popu-
lation concentrated in that corner of the country which was
among the least fertile, so that today, from an economic view-
point, there is a highly inefficient distribution of population.
Secondly, through most of its history, the country has been
suffering from political instability. Thirdly, a long
series of wars and quarrels with her five neighbors have not
contributed to the growth of transport and trading links nor
any other form of economic cooperation, although there has been
progress of this sort in recent years. Fourthly, as a sad
consequence of her border disputes, Bolivia has lost direct
access to the sea, which has not encouraged the development of
an efficient export corridor.

     Thus, for many formidable reasons, Bolivia is -- in the
correct meaning of the term    an exceedingly undeveloped
country; this does not mean that she is very backward or poor,
but rather that she has not gone far towards the high pros-
perity that her natural and human resources should make
possible.



                         -101-
     Population - The last two censuses showed a growth of
population from 2,704,000 in 1950 to 4,648,000 in 1976, an
annual growth rate of 2.1 percent, but these figures omit a
number of forest dwellers and may also suffer an appreciable                 • 'i\
percentage of undercounting. The natural rate of increase
is believed to be about 2.8 percent per annum, the difference
o~ 0.7 percent per annum being attributable to net emigra-
t~on, mostly to Sao Paulo, Buenos Aires, Lima, Arica and
other cities in the neighboring states. But these figures
are unreliable, since the statistical coverage of migration,
residence, births and deaths, is far from complete. It is
no secret that many Bolivians are living without official re-
cognition in Argentina, Brazil and Chile.

       Both censuses showed the highly uneven distribution of
the population, with the great majority living on the alti-
plano or nearby in the high valleys, but some significant
changes between 1950 and 1976 were revealed. The remainder
of the country, measuring about 75 percent of the area,
showed a strongly increasing trend in its population which              ,+
rose from 395,000 to 1,052,000, or from 14.6 percent to
22.6 percent of the total. This was accounted for mainly
by the development of cotton, sugar and oil near the city of
Santa Cruz and, to a much smaller extent, the growth of
cattle farming in the Beni. A second trend, to be observed
in almost all countries, was the shift of people into the
cities (Shown in Figure 7-1): the nine departmental capitals
grew by 162 percent, raising their share of the population
from 20.4 to 31.2 percent; other urban areas grew by 125 per-
cent, raising their share from 14.7 to 19.2 percent, while
rural areas grew by only 31 percent, diminishing from 64.9
to 49.6 percent of the population. But the biggest shift
was abroad. This flood of nearly one million emigrants,
which is an enormous number for a country with less than 3
million people at the beginning of the period, came mainly
 from the Departments of potosf, La Paz, Cochabamba and Chuqui-
 saca, in that order, and as a result, 14 provinces (in potos!,    I'        ,0.,


Cochabamba and Oruro departments) actually declined in popula-
 tion.

     The National Product - It is certainly no criticism of
the statisticians to say that Bolivian economic statistics
should be treated with caution. The' country is bounded by        11
several thousand kilometers of uncontrolled frontier
offering all kinds of opportunity for unrecorded trade. A



                                                                  '1' '




                         -102-
                                                                                                                                                NUMBER OF RESIDENTS (1976)


                                                                                                                                    II          More than 100,000


                                                                                                                                        •
                                                                                                                                        A       20,000· 50,000

                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                        •       5,000    10,000




                                                                                                         ..   ~




                                                                                         ,
                                                                                    ('
                                                                                                \
                                                                                                    \




                                                          I
                                  /
                                                                              ATRINIDAD




                                                                                     '-~-""                                                              '----------

                                                                                                        1Iinef"
                                                                                                              ~\
                                                                                \



                                          cO, ~,                        BAMBA'
                                                                        abo
                                                                                                    Soo...
                                                                                             Por'oc""~ ....IIIoIlIcrO
                        -......       .         Q.~ia(;           P"".lo
                                                                                                                  IlSANTA CRUZ
                      ORURoII                        ••I(!Vi
                                          ~XX
                                          Llallaqll4iA.llIftCio




                                                                              TARIJA
                                                              rUpilOe
                                                                              .....                                         I
                                                                                                                        I                   a    50 100 150 200 km.       ,
                                                                                                                    \j~
                                                                                                                                                                           J
                                                                                                                                                                          1

                                                                                                                                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                \                                              \
                                                                                                                                    \




                                                                           MAIN POPULATION CENTERS

(j)fiI6u't fl'millt and J/aj)liCialed                                                                                                                                  FIGURE 7-1
large part of the population is engaged, partly or wholly,
in production outside the market, which does not appear in the
gross domestic product (GOP). In recent years there has been
rapid, if not exactly galloping, inflation which makes ex-
tremely difficult the estimation of gross national product and
            ll
other "real indicators of economic performance.

      The Central Bank's estimates of GOP for the period 1970
to 1980 are reproduced in Table 7-1. They suggest that, in
real terms, the national product rose by just 6 percent per
annum between 1970 and 1975 and by 4.3 percent per annum be-
tween 1975 and 1978. Allowing for a 2 percent per annum in-
crease in population, the increase in GOP per head becomes 4
percent and 2.2 percent per annum during the two periods,
which is not much for a country in an early stage of develop-
ment. Allowing for the fact that the urban population, which
accounts for most of the recorded GOP since the output of
goods and services by the rural population is largely unrecor-
ded, was rising at about 3.5 percent per annum, the statistical
growth of GOP may partly amount to a conversion of unrecorded
rural poverty into recorded urban poverty.
     The five basic categories of consumption and expenditure
that absorb the GOP are shown in Table 7-2 for the years 1970,
1977 and 1978. The figures appear to show clear progress, with
increases per head of 25 .,Percent'in private consumption, 67 per-
cent in government consumption and 29 percent in investment:
but one must bear in mind that the growth of private consump-
tion and, to a lesser extent, investment is exaggerated by the
shift of population from subsistence to the cash economy_ Also,
the reported private consumption of $b 9,710 ($US 476) per
head in 1978, which is clearly a very low figure, underestimates
the real standard of living insofar as it excludes the non-
cash economy.

      Such progress as was made, however, was made in an un-
 satisfactory way. Total consumption (private plus govern-
 ment) expanded its share of GOP from 81 percent to 86 percent,
 while investment raised its share from 19 percent to 20 per-
 cent. This expansion was achieved by maintaining the percen-
 tage of imports at about 24 percent but allowing the percen-
 tage of exports to fall dangerously from 24 percent to 18
 percent.  In short, the growth of GOP has been achieved by a
50 percent increase in the volume of imports and only a 12 per-
cent increase in the volume of exports.




                          -103-
                            Table 7-1

                                                                     , i

           TREND OF GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT, 1970-80
                  (Million pesos, at 1977 prices)

                                             PERCENT
           YEAR              GOP             INCREASE
           1970            46,856
           1971            48,913               4.4
           1972            51,810               5.9
           1973            55,570               7.3
           1974            59,408               6.9
                                                                 "
                                                5.0
           1975            62,398
           1976            66,306               6.3
                           68,842               3.8
           1977
                           70,771               2.8
           1978
           1979(1)         73,662               4.1
           1980(1)         77,068               4.6



                                                                '1
(1)   Projections.
SOURCE:   Document No.8, prepared by the Central Bank for the
          Workshop on Alternative Strategies for Regional
          Development, La Paz, June 1979.




                                                                i,




                                                                i~    .




                             -104-
                                                  Table 7-2


                                 GOP BY EXPENDITURE, 1970, 1977 AND 1978
                                                (1977 prices)


                                        MILLION PESOS           ANNUAL GROWTH   PERCENT PERCENT
            TOTAL EXPENDITURES        1970 ·19/1    1978           1970-78        1970   1978
                                                                     (%)

      Private. consumption           33,351   47,031   51,415        5.6          71.2    72.6
      Government consumption          4,561    9,019    9,405        9.5           9.7    13.3
      Investment                      8,982   14,696   14,298        6.0          19.2    20.2
 I                                                                                24.0
I-'
      Exports                        11,277   14,512   12,659        1.5                  17.9
o     Imports (-)                    11,315   16,416   17,006        5.2         -24.1   -24.0
Ul
 I
      GOP                            46,856 68,842 70,771            5.3         100.0   100.0

      Balance of Trade                  -38 -1,904 -4,347

                                              PESOS             GROWTH PJ\TE
       EXPENDITURES PER HEAD          1970     1~77     19'8      1970-78

      Private consumption             7,789    9,122    9,710       2.8
      Government consumption          1,065    1,750    1,777       6.6
      Investment                      2,098    2,850    2,700       3.2
      Exports                         2,634    2,815    2,391      -1.2
      Imports (-)                     2,643    3,184    3,212       2.5

      GOP                            10,943 13,353 13,366 .         2.5


      SOURCE:     Derived from Document No.8, prepared by the Central Bank for the
                  Workshop on Alternative Strategies for Regional Development, La Paz,
                  June 1979.
                                                                       i.
                                                                  ""




     By 1978 the balance of trade had fallen heavily into de-
ficit and was financed by foreign loans. By the end of 1978
the external debt had risen to SUS 3,011 million (or $b 61,424
                                                                  ,I
million at the then exchange rate) although not all this amount
had been spent. The servicing of the debt was absorbing 23
percent of export earnings and thus increasing the difficulty
of balancing the external account without resort to yet more
loans. But the level of the debt was already so high that new
loans were becoming harder to find. Bolivia's credit-worthiness
was almost exhausted.
     The National Product by Industry - The industrial sec-
tors that make up the GDP are shown in Table 7-3 together with
the recorded percentage of employment, and public and private
investment, in each sector. The figures are averages for the
seven years 1970-76. They are purely descriptive and do not
intentionally carry any argument. The employment percentages
are distorted by the difficulty of estimating the percentage
in agriculture; equally the GDP contribution of agriculture is
grossly underestimated. The figures indicate the relative
amounts of labor in each sector but not the corresponding
amounts of capital.
     Apart from agriculture, however, the figures do show the
relative importance of the main sectors of the economy. Min-
ing, as would be expected, made an important contribution.
The largest item in the table, however, is commerce, which may
partly be a reflection of inefficient retailing and high retail
margins. The part contributed by transport appears large when
one considers how little transport there is in Bolivia; this
reflects both the high cost of transport and the low level of
other economic activities.
     The annual growth rates refer to the years 1970-75. The
agricultural growth rate could be quite misleading, reflecting
little more than a shift from subsistence to commercial agri-
culture. The other figures, however, are certainly significant.
The negligible growth in mineral output indicates a state of
stagnation in the nation's principal export industry. The ra-     IP!
pid development of oil extraction is evident. There appears
to have been solid growth in the important sectors of manufac-
turing, construction, electricity and transport. One may also
note the high growth in government expenditure.                   I.

                                                                  ,~




                                                                  "


                                                                  H ;




                          -106-
                                                         Table 7-3


                                    GDP BY INDUSTRIAL SECTOR:    AVERAGES FOR 1970-76
                                            (Million pesos, at 1977 prices)


                                          CONTRIBUTION   PERCENTAGE OF:     ANNUAL (1)    INVESTMENT
                       SECTOR                TO GDP      GDP Employment     GROWTH Public Private    Total
                                                                             (%)
                                                                                                       --
          Agriculture                         9,801      17.6        50.0     5.4     275.3   544.0        819.3
          Mining and r.!etallurgy             4,667        8.4        2.8     0.6   1,310.5   401.3     1,711. 8
          Hydrocarbons                        1,113        2.0        0.4    20.2   2,806.3   737.2 (2) 3,543.5
  I
I--'      Manufacturing                       8,110      14.5         7.0     6.8   1,140.6   314.4     1,455.0
0
.....,J
  I
          Construction                        2,192        3.9        3.2     5.6             347.9        347.9
          Commerce                           10,306      18.5         5.3     5.6             325.6        325.6
          Government                          4,768        B.6        9.4     8.5   1,599.9             1,599.9
          Housing                             4,525        8.1        9.4     4.1             470.5        470.5
          Electricity, Gas, Water               788        1.4        0.2     7.2     399.1   111.8        510.9
          Transport and Communications        4,608        8.3        2.9     9.9   1,751.3   478.2      2,229.5
          Other Services                      4,873        8.7        9.4     4.6             159.6        159.6


                                             55,751      100.0    100.0       5.9   9,283.0 3,890.5     13,173.5


          (1)  J:970-1975.
          (2)  F.stimate.
          SOURCE:   La Econom!a Boliviana (The Bolivian Economy), Working Paper 46, Bolivia           National
                    Transport Study.
                                                                   · 1


      The sectoral growth rates may be compared with the in-
vestment figures. The large investment in hydrocarbons was
clearly associated with the rapid development of that industry.
Agriculture, as the country's principal industry, received
little investment, but heavy investment was made in transport,
mining and government.                                             ,.~
                                                                   , J
      The fact that 70 percent of investment was in the public
sector says something about the relative strength of the           '"
public and and private sectors. Mining, hydrocarbons, elec-
tricity, gas and water, transport and communications, even
manufacturing -- all are dominated by the public sector. The
public sector is also involved in agriculture. Contruction,
housing and commerce are the only big industrical categories
left free from state involvement.

      The following pages will provide some more detail about
the four main productive branches of the economy: the infra-
structure, agriculture, mining including hydrocarbons and
industry.

      Infrastructure - Before the 1950s, Bolivia was little
more than a mining outpost. The population lived almost ex-
clusively on the Altiplano and in the high valleys of Potosi,
Chuquisaca and Cochabarnba, and there was little infrastruc-
ture other than that required to serve the mines. Nearly all
economic activity was in private hands; the government inter-
vened as little as possible in economic affairs.

      After the revolution in 1952, attempts were made to draw
up and implement a long-term development plan, and in 1956 a
10-year plan was produced with United Nations assistance. As
                                                                   I~
already discussed in Chapter 4, railroads were built from
Santa Cruz to Corumba in the far east and to Yacuiba in the
far south; in addition, a paved road was built from Cochabamba
to Santa Cruz. Thus Santa Cruz became a transport center and
the surrounding area was colonized for the production of
cotton, at first, then sugar and rice.

      Long-term planning was continually frustrated by political
upheavals. Nevertheless, by the early 1970s a Ministry of Plan-
ning and Coordination was in operation, with regional develop-
ment committees in each of the nine departments, all under the     !j    ,



supervision of a powerful Council of Economics and Planning.
Despite the earlier lack of planning, considerable progress was
made. Electrification spread rapidly. The road from La Paz
to Oruro was paved and industrial infrastructure was provided
to form the beginnings of an industrial axis from La Paz to
Santa Cruz via Cochabarnba. Airports were built and expanded.
Roads were built to support colonization schemes in northern
La Paz, Alto Beni, Chapare and Yapacan{, producing tea, coffee,
cocoa, citrus fruits, chickens and timber.


                          -108-
                                                                   /'1   ,
                                    MINOR ROAD
                                    NEAR LA PAZ




FORD ON ORU RO-
POTOSI HIGHWAY




                                FORD NEAR BOUNDARY
                                OF LA PAZ AND BENI
                                DEPARTMENTS




                  RIVER CROSSINGS
Private enterprise moved into the Beni to develop cattle
farming on the basis of private air transport to La Paz and
Santa Cruz. With road improvements to Tarija, private enter-
prise began to develop vineyards and grow fruit. The auto-
pista to El Alto was built and the road to the Beni started.
     Despite unusual difficulties, a great deal of basic in-
frastructure has been put in place in 25 years, and the face
of the country has been changed a lot. It is no longer
just a mining outpost.
     Agriculture - While mining was the dominant interest in
Bolivia, agriculture was neglected. Society was divided into
the ~ini~g community, which had suffic·ient income to import
most of ~ts needs as contra-traffic to the exports of minerals
via Arica and Antofagasta, and the campesinos who engaged in
subsistance agriculture mainly on the Altiplano and in the
valleys. A certain amount of food was sold to the small ur-
ban communities but none was exported. The country could af-
ford to import food that was not produced locally.
     With the rapid growth of the cities and the relative
decline of mining, this situation could not last. Much lar9-
er output from the agricultural community was needed to sup-
ply the rest of the population. With an improving transport
system there was also a growing case for developing major
agricultural exports. But the industry had not yet achieved
these ends. Agrarian reform after 1952 led to the disintegra-
tion of large farms into small holdings, normally of less than
7 hectares. Productivity was low, quality poor, and supplies
unreliable. There was little modern technology and little
possibility of obtaining credit for improvements.
     Agricultural production, after growing steadily during
the first half of the 1970s, appears to have stagnated in the
last few years. The rate of growth between 1970 and 1978 is
given as 3.5 percent per annum at constant prices, which is
just about equal to the growth in the urban population. Table
7-4 shows details of 1978 production. Potatoes were the lead-
ing crop in terms of value, followed by sugar cane, bananas,
coffee, coca, yucca and corn.
     It is a big step from subsistence farming and selling
small surpluses in the local market, to a highly organized
and competitive export industry. Given the infrastructure,
the possibility is there, but before it becomes a reality
many other improvements must be made: improvements to
species, quality control, packing, hygiene and marketing.
The industry is a long way from achieving these needs.




                        -109-
                              Table 7-4
                     AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, 1978
         PRODUCT                          PRODUCTION     VALUE
                                            (tons)     lS6 million)
Corn (ma!z blando)                          132,400       422.3
Rice, unpeeled                               88,600       291. 9
Wheat                                        59,900       248.5
Barley in grain                              74,800       233.2
Other cereals                                15,300        55.6
  Cereals                                   371,000     1,251.5
                                                                       ,    -1.
Potatoes                                    793,000     2,949.2
Yucca                                       306,200       569.6
Other root crops                            121,800       250.8
  Root crops                              1,221,000     3,769.6
Tomatoes                                     36,800       208.6
Corn (choclo)                               105,600       207.0
Beans                                        58,000       180.1
Onions                                       48,800       173.2
Other vegetables                             76,600       424.8
  Vegetables                                325,800     1,193.7
Bananas                                     399,000       840.6
Peaches                                      28,800       201. 7
Grapes                                       22,000       193.5
Oranges                                      80,000       186.7
Other fruit                                 102,600       405.8
  Fruit                                     632,400     1,828.3
Sugar cane                                3,477,500       991.1
Cotton in fiber                              17,400       424.0
Other industrial crops                       85,200       319.9
  Industrial crops                        3,580,100     1,735.0

Coffee beans                                 22,200       727.9
Coca leaves                                  19,500       571. 0
Cacao seeds                                   3,200       150.9        ,.   '

Tea                                           1,500         7.3
  Stimulants                                 46,400     1,457.1
Fodder                                      746,800     1,048.7
Total crops                               6,923,500    12,283.9
                                          THOUSANDS
                                           OF HEADS
Cattle                                          490     1,513.6
Pigs                                            822       446.5
Sheep                                         1,719       367.9
Fowl                                          5,579       306.8
Goats, llamas, alpacas                          342       106.4
  Total livestock                                       2,741.2
  TOTAL AGRICULTURE                                    15,025.1
SOURCE:    Department of Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture (MACA).
           Oivision of Economic Studies and Aaricultura1
           Marketing, MACA.
           Plan Operativo Aqropecuario 1979, MACA, Office of
           Sectoral planning.

                              -110-
     Nevertheless, some progress has been made. Table 7-5
shows exports of all commodities by group in 1970, 1977 and
1978. At constant prices, agricultural exports rose from
$b 280 million to $b 783 million and processed goods from
agricultural materials rose from $b 136 million to $b 479
million. Nevertheless, together they only comprised 10 per-
cent of the value of exports. Meanwhile deficiencies have
opened up in wheat, barley, cotton, soya and groundnuts, all
of which can be grown in Bolivia. In 1978 only 60,000 tons
of wheat were produced; a further 142,000 tons had to be im-
ported, together with 121,000 tons of flour.
     Mining and H*drocarbons - Seventeen minerals are pro-
duced, of which t e ten most important are shown in Taple
7-6. Tin is predominant and, in value terms, accounts for
72 percent of ' the minerals listed in the table. Bolivia is
one of the world's largest producers of both tin and antimony.
     As shown in Figure 7-2, all mining is situated in the
Altiplano apart from a small amount of iron ore extraction
recently started at Mutun, but the Brazilian Shield in the
east of the country is another large area believed to contain
mineral deposits. Most of the mines are nationalized. The
expansion of the industry in the last ten years has been :
severely restricted by several factors. The world demand
for tin has grown very slowly. The mines have been heavily
taxed and this has reduced the incentive to exploration.
World consumption of tin is actually less now than during
World War 2, and Bolivian output reached its maximum in 1929.
     The poor progress of mining has been offset by the in-
creased exploitation of oil. The National Hydrocarbons
Company (Yacimientos Petrol!feros Fiscales Bolivianos - YPFB)
was set up in 1936. After 1955 foreign companies were allowed
to search for oil, and the Bolivian Gulf Company was success-
ful in discovering the fields at Colpa, Caranda and R!o Grande,
indicated on Figure 7-3. In 1969 the company was nationalized
but other private companies have continued to explore in
various parts of the country. Oil and gas have been found
and are being produced at another six fields in Santa Cruz,
three in Chuquisaca and six in Tarija. Production of oil
peaked in 1973, at 17.3 million barrels, and has been falling
since, to 11.8 million barrels in 1978. Known resources of
oil have also fallen, from 205 million barrels in 1971 to
135 million in 1978. At first most of the oil produced was
for exporti now domestic consumption takes the greater part
and exports have declined. Since the oil tends to be mostly
light, there is a growling scarcity of heavy oils for domes-
tic consumption and it is expected that imports will soon be
necessary to meet the demand.




                         -111-
                                Table 7-5


                 VALUE OF EXPORTS, 1970, 1977 AND 1978

                              (1977 prices)

                                            VALUE IN MILLION PESOS
               PRODUCT                      1970     1977     1978
                                                              -         i·   "




Agriculture:
      Industrial crops                       221      728         561   l' :!


      Livestock products                               90         129
      Forestry products                       59      132          93
      Subtotal                               280      950         783

Processed agricultural goods:
      Refined sugar                           31      458         254
      Meat                                    74
      Wood products                           31      240         225
      Subtotal                               136      698         479

Manufactured goods                                    214         284   I'




Minerals                                9,388       9,810    9,197
                                                                        .'
Crude oil                                    701    1,348         755   I,



                                                                        11

Natural gas and LPG (1)                             1,348    1,425

GRAND TOTAL                            10,505      14,368   12,923      f'




(1)   Liquid petroleum gas.
SOURCE:     Various.
                                                                        "




                               -112-
                                            LEGEND:
                                            Ag    SILVER
                                            Au    GOLD
                                            8;    BISMUTH
                                            ell   COPPER
                                            Pb    LEAD
                                            Sn    TIN
                                                  WOLFRAM
                                            Zn    ZINC




                                                  Unificodo
                                                   Sn,Ag




                                                  5uer pt,r(
                                                  -0       Sn




o    50  100 150 200km.
 ~L~~~~__~~~~~__~'



                                                                    "
                                                                        \   ,
                                                                            1        i

                                                                                \j

                          THE MINING BElT

                                                                FIGURE 7-2
                         'l'able 7-6


           PRODUCTION OF TEN PRINCIPAL MINERALS

                           1978


 PRODUCT                 PRODUCTION                VALUE
                           (tons)            ($b    million)
Tin                        30,880                 7,761.0

Antimony                   12,672                   798.2

Silver                         200                  759.8

Zinc                       59,322                   722.9

Lead                       18,041                   239.2

Wolfram                     3,170                   201. 7

Gold                              0.77              102.7

Copper                      3,266                    88.5

Bismuth                        482                   45.3

Cadmium                        196                   20.1

       TOTAL              128,230             10,739.4




SOURCE:    Data from Ministry of Mining and Metallurgy
           quoted in Plan Operativo 1979, Ministry of
           Planning and Coordination.




                          -113-
     Production of gas started in 1960 and reached 151,246
million cubic feet in 1973, since when the level of output
has remained fairly stable. Nearly all the gas and most of
the oil comes from Santa Cruz. Production statistics for
hydrocarbons are shown in Table 7-7.


     Industry - Bolivia clearly possesses the raw materials
and the power necessary for manufacturing industry but she
lacks what is more important, a large enough domestic market
and a large enough labor force to develop the specialization
and economies of scale necessary to compete with the world's
industrial powers. The vast supporting structure of an indus-
trial society is almost wholly lacking. However, there are
prospects of Bolivia becoming an exporter of processed agri-
cultural produce. With regard to other industrial goods, the
membership in the Andean Pact and similar trade associations
may contribute to the strengthening of this sector.
     There is also a potential for the further development
of certain light industries, particularly those where trans-
port costs penalize the imported product. Some 2,285 esta-
blishments were listed by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce
and Tourism in 1978, and 650 new industrial companies were
registered between the beginning of 1974 and May 1979, employ-
ing nearly 10,000 people. About half the industrial firms appear
to be in La Paz and Santa Cruz; Oruro and Cochabamba are next in
order of importance. About half the industrial firms are engaged
in the food and drink industry; next in importance are metal work-    if

ing and textiles.
     Table 7-8 shows the production of industrial goods in
1970, 1977 and 1978. The annual growth rate in this sector
was 6.4 percent which compares with an average growth rate
of 4 percent   in the population of the four industrial cities
between 1950   and 1976. The industrial sector contributed
14.5 percent   towards GDP in 1970-76 and 6 percent of exports,
mostly sugar   and timber.
                                                                     I'

The Future of the Economy                                            II -.



     Transport planning requires the best possible view of
socio-economic development during the next twenty years. There
is no official economic plan and it is not possible to fore-         I,    '

cast so far ahead with any confidence, especially in Bolivia.
Rather than become committed to a single, fixed forecast, it
is better to r~ze the possibility of alternative paths or            IJ
patterns of development and to seek a transport plan which is
least vulnerable to a forecasting failure. The "least risk"
transport plan is that which, while taking due account of the
"most likely" forecast, also takes account of "less likely"
forecasts, so that no disastrous mistakes will have been made,       .     ,
should one of the latter prove correct.

                            -114-
                                                                                                                          LEGEND

                                                                                                            A       Oil

                                                                                                            !       Oil and    Gos

                                                                                                            m       Gos

                                                                                                            ~       Reserves

             \




                 )
                                                                                                                               "\
             r
                                                                                                                \              , \

                                                                                                                               \
                                                                                                                               i
                                                    , ; oTRtNtDAD




                         oLA PAZ


                               COCHABAMflA         BuloBula~
    (
        "\
                                                        ...       cOfanJ        !CllIIXl
                                                                                    ~NTA              CRUZ
                                                 Piroimirl    a                 m8
                                                                  Na,aniiJl;;m;m CLo Pff10
                                                                           P.            a
                                                                                        CJRio Grandf
                                                   SUCRE
                                                   o
                     "

                                                                             ~Comln
                                             o
                                        POTOSI          Mootl<l9<ldOA


                                                                                                        /
                                                                   GUOlrUY


                                                                  Camalinlli
                                                                               ~
                                                                                A
                                                                                B""MVisto


                                                                                    oil/110
                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                    ,                          N
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                  I

                                                 TARIJA
                                                      o                   ml~~                  /                   o     50   100 150 200 km
                                                                                                                    t

                           ,

                           l                                       \




                                                        OIL AND GAS FIELDS

Ci)f,16uft [lmillt and J'i1J(jocialea                                                                                                       FIGURE 7-3
                                                 Table 7-7


                              PRODUCTION OF HYDROCARBONS, 1970, 1977 AND 1978


                                      PRODUCTION IN THOUSAND TONS       VALUE IN MILLION PESOS (1)
                PRODUCT               1970        1977         1978     1970       1977       1978

      Crude oil (2)                    667         642          410      158      1,349        846
      Gasoline and similar             492         860          907      304      1,292      1,385
      Aviation fuel                     12          56           66       11        181        211
      Liquid gas                         5          51           67        4         54         78
      Natural gas                                2,272        2,198               1,343      1,578
 I
I-'
I-'   Lubricants and grease              6          13           14       40        181        190
U1
 I                                   1,182       3,894        3,662      517      4,400      4,288
      (1)   At 1977 prices.
      (2)   As final product.


      SOURCE:    Diez Afios de Estad!stica Petrol era de Bolivia (Ten Years of Petroleum Statistics
                 in Bolivia), 1969/1978. For reasons of product definition, this table does not
                 exactly coincide with others in this report.
                            Table 7-8                                    !111




           INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION, 1970, 1977 AND 1978

                             PRODUCTION IN             VALUE IN
                             THOUS1>.ND TONS       HILLION PESOS (1)
          PRODUCT           1970     1977   1978    1970   1977   1978

Food, beverages, tobacco   502   934 1,023         1,840 3,302 3,474      r '--:

Textiles and leather        89   101   103         1,921 2,387 2,485
Chemicals, petroleum
  products, rubber,
  plastics               1,798 1,127 1,263         1,071 1,313 1,394
Wood products               82   162   166           168    448    468
Non-metallic building
  materials (2)            204   494   510           272    371    385
Fabricated metals,
  rrachinery                12    45    48            68    285    303
Primary metals                    21    26             7    182   193
Paper products, printing     7    20    21            68    180    183
Others                       2     4     4           162    264    284


                           2,696 2,908 3,164       5,577 8,732 9,169


(1)    At 1977 prices.
(2 )   Excluding some bulky materials.
SOURCE:    La Econom!a Boliviana (The Bolivian Economy), Working
           Paper 46, Bolivia National Transport Study.




                             -116-
     In looking to the future, therefore, one needs to con-
sider first the various possibilities before trying to specify
which are more or less likely. It is advisable, particularly
at the present time, to divide the future into the medium term,
defined as the next five years, and the long term, till the
end of the century.
     The Medium Term - In 1980, it has been shown that the
Bolivian economy is in a situation of exceptional difficulty.
The deficit on foreign trade has to be drastically reduced,
and quickly, and the external debt has to be serviced without
further net borrowing. Inflation is running high and the
industrialized countries are in a state of serious recession.
Bolivian agriculture is almost stagnant, the world tin ~arket
has been affected by the recession and may be further h~t by
American destocking, and Bolivian oil supplies are running down
while oil prices soar.

     It is difficult to see how the country can pass through
the next five years without reducing imports, by one means
or another, and forcing more output into exports. This will
mean almost certainly a reduction in living standards and a
slump, or at least stagnation, in numerous industries. It is
unlikely that GDP will grow rapidly during this period and
the funds for public investment are likely to be restricted.
     The biggest hope of a solution lies in the export of nat-
ural gas, but this cannot happen on a sufficient scale until
a pipeline is built to Brazil and ultimately to Sao Paulo.
This could be achieved by 1985. In any event, it is to be
hoped that by 1985 the economy will be back in balance and a
new surge forward may then begin.
     The Long Term - The possibilities of development in the
long term are so numerous and wide-ranging that there is a
real question of choice. It is not possible to do everything
at once and there is no unanimity on what should be done first.
There are, in fact, very different views on the best direction
for development, whether it should be towards more mineral ex-
ploitation, or towards agriculture, or towards industry. There
are those who put political integration first, which implies
regional dispersal of development funds. There are those who
would move the population to the resources, i.e. away from
the Altiplano, and those who would pile investment into the
Altiplano and keep the people there. Some would seek develop-
ment within the protective walls of either the Andean Group
or a southern association, while others see more future in the
much larger but more demanding markets of the northern hemi-
sphere.




                          -117-
                                                                  · .,l

      Whichever way the economy develops, the crucial factor
for transport planning will be the speed at which it happens.
The growth of GDP and the general demand for transport of all
sorts will depend partly on the continuing growth of popula-
tion, which will be greatly influenced by the rate of emigra-
tion, a highly unpredictable factor.   Growth will also depend
on the rapidity with which projects are implemented, markets
established, people settled in new work and new places, and       I· ·11
output targets achieved.   It will depend, in other words, not
only on correct economic decisions but on drive, hard work,
sacrifice and good organization. These things are surely re-
lated to political wisdom, leadership and stability. As one
is entitled to take an optimistic or pessimistic view of these
matters, the best approach is to consider first the various
major developments that could take place by the end of the
century and then to put them together in scenarios of varying
degrees of realization.

      Mining - The prospects for tin mining are not good.
For 30 years before the 1952 revolution, no major discoveries
were made by the three big mining companies. After their
nationalization, almost no exploration has been done by the
National Mining Company - COMIBOL. Exploration and expansion
have been frustrated by the high sales tax on minerals, and
Bolivian mines also suffer from high costs of production and
transportation.

      On the other hand, the Bolivian Geological Service
(GEOBOL) has been set up by the State to look for new mineral
deposits, and steps have been taken to encourage and support
small mining companies. There is always the possibility of
major discoveries in the Brazilian Shield. Also, there are
still large -- though low-grade -- reserves of tin around
existing mines.

      The most likely mining development, however, is the
iron ore deposit at Mutun.  Immense reserves of high-quality
ore, easily extracted by open-cast mining, await increased
exploitation. The mine is conveniently located for cheap
water transport down the Paraguay River.  If markets can be
established, and so far they have not been, production could
reach millions of tons a year.

      Petroleum and Natural Gas - There appears to be no reason
to be optimistic about the discovery of more oil fields and it
seems likely that Bolivia has little future as an oil producer.   "
The prospects for natural gas, though, are far better.  It is
expected that by 1985 a pipeline will be in place from Santa




                          -118-
PIPELINE ON RIO GRANDE RAIL               ALTIPLANO SOUTH OF LA PAZ
  BRIDGE NEAR SANTACRUZ




                        RIVER CROSSING NORTH
                              OF SUCRE



                              PIPELINES
Cruz to Sao Paulo and that 400-500 million cubic feet a day
will be exported to Brazil and Argentina, bringing enormous
relief to the balance of payments. The future price of
natural gas, however, is clearly a matter of speculation.
      Agriculture - Many large opportunities for agricultural
development can be found in various parts of the country. The
common need is for markets and transport. In general, the
markets must be abroad, because Bolivia cannot generate a rap-
id growth in demand for agricultural produce; and the markets
are more likely to be in the northern hemisphere than in
South America.
      Perhaps the leading agricultural opportunity is in wheat,
because there exists a substantial and growing domestic demand
yet to be satisfied. There are preliminary plans for a major
irrigation scheme to develop 200,000 hectares of good agricul-
tural land in the Villamontes-Sachapera region of Tarija, where
wheat and dairy cattle could be produced for the home market
and soya, corn, cotton, sorghum and groundnuts for export by
rail through Argentina.
      A similar concept has been suggested for the Pilcomayo
river basin where a hydroelectric installation could provide
irrigation for 50,000 hectares of farm land and power for
agro-industrial plants. It has been proposed that wheat be
grown as a winter crop with cotton, groundnuts, soya, sunflowers
and other crops in the summer.
       Apart from wheat and dairy products, most large agricul-
tural schemes must be directed at export markets. The great-
est potential lies in the Beni which could become one of the
world's greatest sources of beef. At present, methods of
 production are primitive. This vast area is al-
most totally devoid of transport except for small aircraft
using rough grass air strips, and river boats plying up and
down the Mamore and Beni Rivers.       Much needs to be done
to raise the quality of produce to international standards,
to develop the means of transport and to establish effective
marketing organizations, but the opportunity is there for an
enormous and highly profitable export trade that could help
transform. the economy of the country.
      The Alto Beni has attracted migrants because of its
capacity to produce a wide range of crops for La Paz and for
export. Transportation is a major obstacle. Yucca, corn
for poultry, ramie, cacao, coffee, citrus fruits, avocados,
sweet potatoes and mangoes can be produced.




                          -119-
      Another large area of great potential, somewhat remote
from existing agricultural zones but not requiring irrigation
or any other large investment, is the Tucavaca valley stretching
westwards from Puerto Suarez. Wheat, corn, soya, rice, citrus
fruits, timber and cattle could be produced in great quantities
for export by rail through Brazil or by river to Rosario.

      All these projects, and others, need labor for their
fulfilment.  They need migrants from the Altiplano. But it
has been suggested that an alternative solution to the problem
of the people on the Altiplano would be to improve and develop
the output of the Altiplano itself. Many proposals have been
made to invest capital in improving the fertility and product-
ivity of the area, encouraging dairy farming and wool produc-
tion, reforestation, land reclamation around Lake Titacaca,
fish ponds, horticulture and various agroindustries.

      Industry - It is common for non-industrialized countries
to believe that industry is the key to prosperity.  This may
be true in countries with few resources except manpower, but
it may not be so in countries rich in resources yet lacking
in manpower.  Bolivia's ventures into industry have produced
too many expensive failures, such as the Cochabamba asbestos
cement plant, the La Paz plate glass factory, the vegetable
oil plant in Villamontes, the factories for making matches,
batteries and drilling bits, the bismuth smelter and some of
the oil refineries.  There are doubts about the cement plants
at Yacuses, Tarija and Sevaruyo.

      Nevertheless, there is no lack of grandiose and optimis-
tic plans for further industrialization which, if they ma-
terialize, will generate important demands for transport.
Among them is the motor vehicle plant at Cochabamba designed
to progress in the classic pattern from assembly work to part
production.  In association with this venture there would be
a steel works using iron ores or pellets from Mutun.  The sup-
plies of natural gas would provide the basis for a petroche-
mical industry, starting with a urea plant near Santa Cruz
and proceeding to the production of olefin, phenol, polypro-
pylene and polyethylene at Cochabamba.

      Less ambitious, but perhaps more feasible, plans for in-     ,,,
dustrialization are aimed at agricultural processing in order
to raise the value-added element of many agricultural products,
thus reducing the incidence of transport costs and making it
easier to compete in world markets.  The canning of fruit and
vegetables, the production of juices, jams and jellies, the
development of viniculture, instant coffee, cocoa products,
tinned and preserved meat, leatherwork and wood products, are
all ways of utilizing local produce, without need of heavy




                          -120-
industry or high technology, in order to penetrate foreign
markets more profitably than by the simple export of the raw
materials themselves. But even in these relatively simple
industries success is not easy, because the export market
demands high standards and is extremely competitive.
      One way of escaping the tough examination of world com-
petition is to seek protection within the Andean Pact. The
motor vehicle industry and several smaller industries are
being launched in cooperation with the other members of the
Andean Group. A semi-guaranteed Andean market would certainly
help Bolivia to create a number of new industries; but the
market is small and Bolivia will have to reciprocate by buy-
ing other manufactures, possibly of low quality and high price,
from the other members.
Alternative Development Patterns
      As explained in Chapter 3, for planning purposes in this
 Study, the country was divided into 77 zones and transport de-
 mand was predicted as a function of, among other things, several
parameters related to population and economic activity in each
zone. Assumptions about future development must thus be trans-
latable into their impact on the population and economic para-
meters of the 77 zones.
      It is therefore necessary to produce development patterns
to reflect, at the required level of detail, the expected socio-
economic situations in the target years, 1989 and 1999. This
is particularly difficult in Bolivia because of the state of
political uncertainty and the wide range of development oppor-
tunities. It is easier, however, to predict 1989 than 1999.
Much of the development of the 1980s is already starte~ com-
mitted or planned. Also, because of the current international
recession, the early 1980s are expected to bring little econo-
mic development. By 1999, however, the range of possibilities
is so wide and varied that the scale and nature of development
are much more difficult to predict.
      For this reason, it was decided to formulate one develop-
ment pattern for 1989 and three alternatives for 1999. Clear-
ly there is scope for error in the 1989 pattern but it is con-
sidered small enough to ignore, whereas in 1999 the likelihood
of error is large. Hence three contrasting patterns, called
A, C and D, were selected (B was dropped because it proved to
be very similar to C and thus provided no useful basis for fur-
ther analysis) in order to test the sensitivity of transport
projects to these alternative possibilities. They were chosen
to reflect some broad differences of scale and direction and
development. The size of the GDP is as unpredictable as its
distribution. Hence a range of GDP assumptions was incorporated
in the alternative patterns: Alternative C was given the
official (Central Bank) assumption of GDP, Alternative A 10
percent lower and Alternative D 20 percent higher.

                           -121-
                                                                                        •
                                                                                   .•
                                                                                    ~




      A second element of variation was the emphasis on pri-
mary or secondary production. This was related to the dif-                   , ''II
ferences in GDP because secondary industrial development, i.e.
manufacturing, is generally the more capital-intensive. There-                     I
fore Alternative A has a greater emphasis on the development
of primary production in the form of agriculture and mining,
Alternative C introduces greater industrial investment and Al-
ternative D assumes an even faster industrial growth.
      The third principal contrast is in regional distribution.
Alternative A represents a continuation of recent trends, with
growth concentrated heavily in a few areas, and other areas
largely neglected. Alternative C incorporates more regional
development intended to spread economic prosperity more evenly
between different parts of the country. Alternative D contains
                                                                             ."
the same regional development projects but, having a much greater
GDP, concentrates its additional product in an industrial axis
from La Paz through Cochabamba and Santa Cruz to Mutun.
      The 1989 Development Pattern - GDP is predicted to reach
$b 117,500 million in 1989 (in 1977 pesos). Much of the de-
velopment before then will consist of projects already in pro-
gress or committed. They enable one to predict fairly well
the state of economic development in 1989. Figure 7-4 indicates
the 44 major projects included, of which 18 were agricultural.
Schemes to be completed by 1989 are located at San Ignacio de
Velasco, San Javier, Valles Mesotermicos, U11a U11a, Ingavi,
Chimore, Cha11apata and Alto Beni. Other agricultural projects
due to be under way but not completed by 1989 are at Abap6-
Izozog, Gran Chaco,Misicuni, Rurrenabaque-San Buenaventura,
Vi11amontes, San Jacinto and Tucavaca. Many of these develop-            j    .~




ments will continue right through the 1990s, especially those
involving dams. Apart from major definable projects, there
are other areas where agriculture w1ll stead1ly expand, 1n
particular cattle-rearing in the Beni, cultivation of various
foodstuffs in the Yungas and Valleys to feed the growing popula-
tions of La Paz and Cochabamba, corn, sugar and horticultural
production around Santa Cruz, and fruit production in Tarija.
  .   In the mining sector there are 12 major projects of
wh~ch 8 should be completed by 1989, at Catavi, Centenario,
Re1aves E1 Kenko, Integral Bo1{var, Co1quiri, Sud Lipez, La
Pa1ca and Machacamarca. At Mutun, the production of iron
pellets is assumed to have commenced.
      There are also 14 major industrial projects, including
the automobile project at Cochabamba, which will continue into
the 1990s, cement plants in Oruro, east Santa Cruz and Tarija,
paper factories in Santa Cruz and Tarija, steel in Santa Cruz,
textile and glass factories, and plants for the production



                                                                    i.


                          -122-                                     ~   I '
                                                                                                      LEG END

                                                                                     •       PRINCIPAL GROWTH CENTER
                                                                                         •   SECONDARY GROWTH CENTER
                                                                                     .&      INDUSTRIAL CENTER
                                                                                     •       MINERAL PROCESSING
50                0           100   200 Km.                                          ~ NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
        '!!!!!!I'~
    I!oo'                   __~==!!!!I
                                                                                             FOR EST PRODUCTS
                                                                                             AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                  (,,>           -       IMPROVEMENT OF AGRICULTURE
                                                                         ~          ./1/ PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING OF CATTLE
                                                                                   '1
                                                                             ~    -      MINERAL PRODUCTION
                                                                                 ; 21 PROJECT NUMBER (SEE APPENDIX 7B)




                      ...



                                                                                                     •                if$>
                                                                                                     •                       '1>
                                                                                                     L___ ~
                                                                                                                     \­
                                                                                                                14




"
)

2
    o

      11
       )

            (\




                 (\


                 o
                                                                                             A




                                              1989 DEVElOPMENT PATTERN

                                                                                                                     FIGURE 7-4
of vegetable oil and processed fruit. Most important is the
development of natural gas for export, on which the growth of
the whole economy depends.
      In addition to these major projects, which have been in-
dividually incorporated in the development pattern, there will
be innumerable smaller developments, which have been predicted
in a more aggregated way. A prime objective in this work was
to produce a detailed socio-economic forecast, zone by zone,
consistent both with the macro-economic predictions, especially
the GDP prediction, and with the major development projects
that will contribute towards those predictions.
       1999 Development Pattern A - The first of the three 1999
patterns is pessimistic about economic growth. GDP at 181,300
million pesos (1977) represents a growth of 54.3 percent since
1989, which is only 15.4 percent per head. This relatively low
growth is partly the result of low investment and it also 1im-·
its the budget available for future investment, which in 1999
is estimated at 35,400 million pesos.
      Major projects, presented in Figure 7-5, are largely in
the agricultural sector with the continuation of the Abap6-
Izozog, Gran Chaco, Misicuni, San Buenaventura, Vi11amontes,
San Jacinto and Tucavaca developments. No major new agricul-
tural projects are included.
      ~iringdevelopments continue at Uyuni, Fare11ones-Ke11wani
and E1 Rodeo but not much expansion at Mutun is foreseen in
this alternative.
      Little industrial investment is included. The major pro-
jects are continuations from 1989, namely the automobile pro-
ject, the Karachipampa sme1tinq complex and the Aquila chemi-
cal works. In the all-important field of hydrocarbons a con-
siderable increase in gas production is foreseen, while pe-
troleum output declines.
      The lack of major projects in this alternative means
that much of the economic growth, such as it is, consists of
small unidentifiable deve10prents in all three sectors, agricul-
ture, mining and industry. A general growth of production is
incorporated, consistent with the macro-economic predictions.
Because of the low growth in income per head, there is neces-
sarily an emphasis on agricultural development.
      This development pattern does not reflect either the hopes
or the expectations of the Study. It is a pessimistic view of
the future containing a slow and unenterprising exploitation of
the country's resources. It represents the minimum conceivable
demand for transport facilities in 1999.



                           -123-
      1999 Development Pattern C - The most important of the
three alternatives, Pattern C conforms with the Central Bank                          ,    ;,
macro-economic predictions and can thus be regarded as the
most likely or most feasible pattern of the future. It as-
sumes that by 1989 the Government will be organized to make
rational economic decisions to promote production in certain
industries, particularly those utilizing national resources
such as agriculture, livestock, minerals and hydrocarbons,
                                                                                      '--1\
and that productive resources will be better distributed to
permit a high level of employment. Various regions, e.g.
Abap6-Izozog, Chan~-Piraf, Villamontes, San JuliSn and north
La Paz, have been selected for agricultural development.
                                                                                       , -t
      In 1975, Bolivia was a signatory to the International
Strategy for Industrial Development which took as its starting
pOint the pattern and structure of international trade. This
resulted in the Action Plan of Lima which included a long-
term plan for the promotion of economic harmonization and trade
between developing countries, especially in the industrial                            .,
field. Pattern C rests on the Lima objective of accelerating
industrial growth in order to improve the pattern of interna-
tional trade. Its broad lines may be expressed as follows:
       (i)   State control of natural resources, and their
             exploitation in order to achieve industrialization;
      (ii)   Strengthening of trade programs, with complementary
             agreements within the Andean Group and LAFTA(1);
     (iii)   Large-scale colonization and promotion of farming
             in order to provide employment;
      (iv)   Creation of steel, smelting, petrochemical and en-
             gineering industries to reduce the need for imports;
       (v)   Exploitation of the potential value of natural re-
             sources, especially agriculture, by development of associated
             processing industries, e. g. in neat, timber, ci true fruits and milk;
      (vi)   Establishment within the Andean Group of engineering,
             electrical and chemical industries and expansion of
             the range of manufactures for mass consumption such
             as foodstuffs, construction materials, textiles,
             leather and other light manufactures;

                                                                                      \.   ,
(1) Latin Arrerican Free Trade Association. On August 11, 1980 in M:>nte-
    video, this was replaced by a new organization, AIJ\DI (Asociaci6n
    Latinoarrericana de Integraci6n).



                                -124-
                             1

                             ~                       ..
                                                                                                                       LEGEND
              50       0
                   '---' 	
                             100   ZOOKm.
                                     I                                                            •
                                                                                                  •
                                                                                                  .to
                                                                                                      PRINCIPAL GROWTH CENTER
                                                                                                      SECONDARY GROWTH CE NTER
                                                                                                      INDUSTRIAL CENTER

                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                      •
                                                                                                      MINERAL PROCE§61NG
                                                                                                      NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION
                                                                                                  ZI  PROJECT NUMBER (SEE APPENIX 7B)
                                                                                                r. 71 FOREST PRODUCTS
                                                                     (. 	                              AGRICULJURAL DEVELOPM[NT
                                                                            I)                   LLL, PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING OF CATTLE
                                                                                                      MINERAL PRODUCTION
                                                                                 /.
                                                                                      /
                                                                                          r·
                                                                                                 -/


             ...




o
o
1'1

•L
    o
                                                                                                                                                c
      "0 	
                                                                                                                                       ..
      •
      o                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                             \>


                                                                                                          <l
                                                                                          ~      '"                      ~
                                                                                                                             ~.
                                                                                                                                       " ,
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                  :­
                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                      ~   ..           :-.
                                                                                                               ~

             o	                                                                                                "
                                                          .\   R G   E 1\ 	 T         ]   :'J    .\




                                            1999 DEVElOPMENT PATTERN A
                                                                                                                                                    FIGURE 7-5
     (vii)   Intensive exploration for minerals, particularly in
             the Brazilian Shield, and for hydrocarbons;
   (viii)    Incentives for small businesses and craft trades;
      (ix)   Establishment of negotiating machinery for questions
             of foreign trade.
      The development projects in Pattern C were selected in
accordance with the above objectives. As shown in Figure 7-6,
it comprises all the major projects in Pattern A plus some
important additions. The Rositas, Pilcomayo and Bala agricultural
projects are included. Mineral development at Playa Verde and in
the Precambrian area are included and output from Mut~n is
expanded. In the industrial sector, the major additions are the
petrochemichal, fertilizer, steel and palrr oil plants. In
addition there is generally higher output from most sectors of
production, especially industrial sectors and natural gas.
      1999 Development Pattern D - The main purpose of Pattern
D was to explore the implications of a much faster rate of
growth. Income per head rises between 1989 and 1999 by 53.7
percent, compared with 28 percent in C and only 15.4 percent
in A. The higher national product implies higher output in
most industries, but especially in gas, processed food,
building materials and non-ferrous metals, for domestic
consumption, and in export industries such as meat, other
animal products, non-ferrous minerals, iron and timber.
      The broad strategy in Pattern D is the sa~e as in C but
the pace is faster and hence the emphasis on the industrial
axis between La Paz and Mut~n is greater. Rising incomes
lead to a much faster growth of demand for manufactures than
for food, and especially for better housing and for transport.
This high rate of economic growth is hardly feasible unless a
much bigger share of industrial demand is met domestically:
hence the emphasis on industrial development.
      No new major projects were added to this pattern, not
because there would not be any but because they have not yet
been conceived. Major expar.sion of numerous industries is
involved but individual development projects, additional to
those already incorporated in Pattern C, were not identified.
      A big growth in meat output and export from the Beni was
assumed, together with other animal products. Wheat output
from Tucavaca eliminates imports of this cereal. In the mineral
sector there is a major development of Mut~n and in the output
of building materials, also of non-metallic minerals. In the




                            -125-
industrial sector there is general growth but especially in
flour and grain products, wood and wood products, chemicals,
manufactured building materials and cement, steel and fabricated
metals, and -- though still on a small scale -- in vehicles and         I
machinery.
      To make this pattern feasible, major expansion of exports
was assumed in meat, animal products and timber through the
Amazon, in minerals, iron pellets and chemicals down the River
Paraguay, and in processed foodstuffs.
Quantification of Development Projects
      The Bolivian economy is so little developed and the
volumes of traffic so small that any major new development
project could have a marked effect on transport demand in its      '''t
area.   It was necessary, therefore, to take careful account of
all such major projects included in the development patterns.
For this purpose a questionnaire was completed for forty large
projects likely to have important transport implications. The
questionnaire elicited the following information:

      •   location
      •   investment cost
      •   period of construction
      •   scheduled year of completion
      •   planned annual production levels from date of
           commencement
      •   principal products
      •   employment to be generated
      •   state of project in 1989
      •   production in 1989
      •   inputs required, by type and tonnage
      •   produotion by tonnage.
      This information was painstakingly obtained from
government departments and public corporations, and is set out
in Working Paper 47. Further information could be obtained
from the Five-Year Plan 1975-80, which contains a list of 340
projects, with location and investment cost.
      Some of the biggest projects extend into the 1990s and
even beyond, but naturally there was far less information about
the 1990s than the 1980s.
Socio-eoonomic Characteristics in 1989 and 1999
      The last step in the projection of socio-economic
development was to apply the macro-economic predictions and-
development patterns to the 77 zones. This work is described in
Working Paper 49. For each zone the following variables were
obtained for the base year, 1977, and then projected to 1989 and
1999:

                             -126-
                                                                    -       ,
                      }
                      ~                                                                                    LEGEND
            50
              ~
                  0   100   200Km .
                              I                                                   •
                                                                                  •
                                                                                                    PRINCIPAL GROWTH CENTER
                                                                                                    SECONDARY GROWTH CENTER

                                                                                  •
                                                                                  •
                                                                                                    INDUSTRIAL CENTER


                                                                                      •
                                                                                                    MINERAL PROCE5S1NG
                                                                                                    NA,URAL GAS PRODUCIION
                                                                                  21                PROJECT NUMBER (SEE APPENIl( 7B)
                                                                                 7/,£/              FOREST PRODUCTS
                                                                                                     AGRICULJURAL DEVEl.OPME NT
                                                                                 LLL/;               PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING OF CATTLE
                                                                                                    MINERAL PRODUCTION




            ...


                                                                                                    j
                                                                                                     .~ ~
                                                                                                                                        ".      -(

                                                                                                                    14
o
o
III
)                                                                                -----_ --­          ...                ...
                                                                                                                                                N


 2
    o

                                                               18        I
                                                                                                                    ,         C­

                                                                     I                                          V



                                                           ~ ~~                                                     V

                                                                                                                                   \)



        o
                                                                             ~. '\                         :­
                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                      ..... ., "l
                                                                                           "­
        o
                                                      A RG E    1\       T   1   .\




                                      1999 DEVELOPMENT PAITERNS C AND D
                                                                                                                                             FIGURE 7-6
      •   Population
      •   Dispersed Population
      •   Economically Active Population
      •   GOP per Head
      •   Production of Goods in 39 Groups, in tons
      •   Consumption of Goods in 39 Groups, in tons.
        For 1999 the variables were projected for the three
  alternative development patterns. Pattern C was used in the
  computer model. The other two alternatives were prepared for
  manual use and were not fully specified at the zonal level;
  some of the data were distributed between only 20 districts,
  each district being a group of zones.
         Table 7-9 shows the basic macro-economic projections which
. had to be distributed between zones. The variables were first
  distributed by a method following past trends; as required, they
  were adjusted to coincide with the macro-economic projections.
  Then they were modified to reflect the detailed features of the
  development patterns. The distribution of population was made
  consistent with the location of production, and the size of the
  non-dispersed population in each zone or district was related to
  the amount of industrial and commercial activity. The si~e of
  the non-dispersed population has a big effect on the cash income
  of the zone and on its level of consumption and demand for trans-
  port of all kinds.
        For each zone, the production and cons~ption of each of
  the 39 commodity groups was calculated for 1977, 1989 and 1999
  (Pattern C - the other alternatives were projected by district),
  and export and imports were balan=ed to give a consistent
  pattern. An important part of this work was the estimation of
  intermediate consumption, i.e. the consumption by one industry
 of the output of another. No input-output analysis was available
  for the Bolivian economy, so these interindustrial relationships
  had to be estimated as best possible from other sources including
 American experience.

       Table 7-10 shows the totals of supply and demand for each
commodity group for 1977, 1989 and the three 1999 development
patterns. Supply is defined as production plus imports; this
equals demand, which is defined as consumption plus exports.
The table is expressed in tons and shows an increase in total
tonnage of 135 percent between 1977 and 1989 and further
increases of 36 to 71 percent between 1989 and 1999. The very
large increase during the former period is accounted for
largely by natural gas and iron, which have high ratios of
weight to value.Witixut these two almost new commodities,
tonnage rises between 1977 and 1989 by 84 percent, compared
with a rise of 71 percent in GOP. Other commodities showing
exceptional growth during the 1980s are primary non-ferrous
metals, fertilizers, rice and cement, with associated lime
  and gypsum.


                             -127-
                                                                       Table 7-9


                                                   SU~W~RY   OF SOCIa-ECONOMIC VARIABLES
                                                  1977 and Projections for 1989 and 1999


                                                                                                                           1999
                                                                              1977     1989
                                        (1)
                                                                                                             A              C
                                                                                                                                       -    D
                           Population                                    5,156        7,165                 9,577         9,682            9,682
                           Dispersed population (1)                      2,556        3,038                 3,486         3,522            3,450
           I                                                 (1)
           I-'             Economically active population                1,660         2,401             3,354             3,391         3,391
           N
           00
            I
                           GOP ($b million) ( 2)                        68,900       117,800           181,300           203,400       241,700
                           GOP per head, overall(2)                     13,350       16,440            18,930            21,000         24,960
                                                      (2 )
                           GOP per head, dispersed                       3,320        4,370                 5,870         6,510          7,810
                           GOP per head, non-dispersed (2)              23,200       25,330            26,400            29,300        34,460
                                                                 (3)    17,500                         55,738            60,614        70,117
                           Goods production and consumption                          41,048


                           (1)   Thousands.
                           (2)  At 1977 prices.
                           (3)  Thousands of tons,includinq imports and exports.
                           SOURCE: Forecast and Distribution of Socio-economic Variables, Working Paper 49,
                                    BolivJa National Transport Study •




..   .i:         ,4   ..                ..    -   ';;.Q.     ~   J,.     ..
                                                                                          -    •   •    d        •   •   ••    4   ~            ...   ..
                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                      Table 7-10


                     SUPPLY AND DEMAND OF COMMODITY GROUPS

                     1977   anc1 Projections for 1989 and 1999



                                                SUPPLY/DEMAND IN   THOUSA~D   TONS

          COMMODITY GROUP                1977        1989     1999A       1999C        1999D
1. Live animals                          163.7      263.8      387.7      429.7        516
2. Meat and fish                         145.5      265.4      381.6      407.0        591
3. Other animal products                  68.0      104.1      158.0      160.0        234
4. Corn                                  403.1      510.1      561.1      641.0        680
5. Rice                                  100.5      272.9      469.5      475.5        497
6. Wheat                                 180.0      257.0      370.1      424.0        466
7. Other cereals                          72.7      250.0      345.2      351. 7       372
8. Potatoes and other tubers            1049.1     1542.9     2122.6     2144.6       2150
9. Fruit                                 689.1     1027.2     1292.2     1445.9       1521
10.Vegetables and plants                 193.2      303.9      358.5      400.5        422
11.Sugar cane                           3556.0     6318.0     8455.2     8805.2       9245
12.0ther agricultural products           156.8      346.9      602.8      751.2        784
13.Crude oil                            1739.8     2241.0     3667.2     4150.0       5150
14.Natural gas                          2271.7    10091.0    12982.0    12975.0      13141
15.Bottled gas                            51.7      150.2      265.5      315.0        380
16.0ils and lubricants                    24.2       51.7       74.0       86.0        108
17.0ther refined petroleum products      871.5     1895.3     3300.0     3900.0       4900
18.Iron ore                                7.1     1707.0     2000.0     2900.0       3900
19.Non-ferrous metallic minerals         325.7      510.2      858.6      911.5       1155
20.Non-metallic minerals                  80.3      236.7      216.9      266.0        356
21.Sugar and confectionery               331.9      584.8      856.9      936.9        974
22.Flour and grain products              237.3      500.5      861. 6     861. 8       948
23.Beverages                             289.1      658.3      784.7      831. 2       904
24.0ther food and tobacco products       247.0      455.5      480.1      529.8        569
24a.Food distribution                               330.6      539.2      539.2        563
25.Textiles and leather products         110.3      179.5      254.5      269.5        341
26.Wood and wood products                505.5      973.8     1821. 8    1829.3       2370
27.Pulp and paper products                40.9      125.3      138.3      210.6        274
28.Fert111zers                            17.5       86.7      144.5      193.4        232
29.0ther chemicals                       116.4      263.4      299.9      670.5        920
30.Sand and aggregates                  1870.8     2876.3     3499.4     3579.4       4650
31.Lime and gypsum                       613.6     1849.9     2645.7     3174.0       4126
32.Bricks, ceramics, etc.                238.2      595.1      740.7      844.6       1098
33.Cement                                369.1     1015.1     1194.6     1231.0       1569
34,35.Primary iron, steel and other      137.8     1562.3     1762.8     1964.0       2678
      fabricated metals
36.Primary non-ferrous metals             29.5      135.9      189.5      201. 6      289
37.Vehicles                               26.1       65.2       91.9      119.6       167
38.Machinery                              61.9      211. 9     242.4      262.4       388
39.Miscellaneous manufactures            107.2      232.3      320.7      425.3       489

                                     17,499.8 41,047.7       55737.9    60613.9    70117

SOURCE:   Forecast and Distribution of Socio-economic Variables, Working Paper 49,
          Bolivia National Transport Study.
                                       -129-
      In Table 7-11 the tonnage totals for production, con-
sumption, imports and exports are shown, for 1977, 1989 and
the three 1999 alternative development patterns. The fig-
ures are shown with and without crude oil and natural gas,
because these commodities have a dominating influence on
the tonnages. The great growth in the production and export
of natural gas is the most important feature in these pro-
jections, as indeed it is expected to be in the future of
the Bolivian economy.




                                                              I   I




                          -130-
                                    Table 7-11


            PRODUCTION,   CONSU~PTION,       I~PORTS    AND EXPORTS:
               1977 and Projections for 1989 and 1999
                                    (000 tons)


           PRODUCTION     H1PORTS      TOTAL      EXPORTS      CONSUMPTION      GDP
                                   All Commodities                           ($bmil1ion)

1977         16,811          689      17,500           3,173      14, 327      68,800
1989         39,386        1,661      41,047       11,685         29,362      117,800
1999 A       52,251        3,487      55,738       15,071         40,667      181,300
1999 C       56,475        4,139      60,614       15,528         45,086      201,400
1999 D       64,748        5,369      70,117       16,404         53,713      241,700


             All Commodities Except Crude Oil and Natural Gas

1977         12,806          682      13,488             519      12,969
1989         27,895          820      28,715           1,935      26,780
1999 A       38,172          917      39,089           2,571      36,518
1999 C       42,403       1,086       43,489           3,028      40,461
1999 D       50,510       1,316       51,826           3,904      47,922


                          Crude Oil and Natural Gas

1977          4,005            7       4,012           2,654       1,358
1989         11,491          841     12,332            9,750       2,582
1999 A      14,079         2,570     16,649        12,500          4,149
1999 C       14,072       3,053      17,125        12,500          4,625
1999 D       14,238       4,053      18,291        12,500          5,791



SOURCE:   Forecast and Distribution of Socio-economic Variables, Working
          Paper 49, Bolivia National Transport Study.




                                     -131-
      CHAPTER 8

RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR
 TRANSPORT INVESTMENT
CHAPTER 8

RESOURCES
AVAILABLE FOR TRANSPORT INVESTMENT
     A major requirement of the Study is to recommend a year-
by-year program of transport investments for the period 1981-
90 ,with an indicative program for the period 1991-2000 • Clearly,
it is impossible to fulfil this task without first coming to
a realistic assessment of how large will be the available
budget for transport investment. It is not possible, either
in Bolivia or in most other countries, to obtain official
guidance on this vital question~ governments are not able or
willing to commit themselves so far ahead. The question has
therefore been answered by the Study team to the best of its
ability. This chapter explains how.
Discussion of the Problem
      Transport investment is made partly by government depart-
ments, partly by publicly owned corporations and partly by
private companies and individuals. The concern here is with the
two public sectors, which in Bolivia account for a high per-
centage of the total. No matter how the funds are raised --
by higher prices, taxes, domestic borrowing or foreign aid --
the more that is spent on transport facilities, the less that
can be spent on other things, and in particular, since there
is a practical limit to the proportion of national resources
that can be appropriated for investment rather than consumption,
the less that can be invested in other sectors.
     The question, how much could and should be allocated to
transport investment, is therefore primarily a question of
what proportion transport should get of a given budget for
public investment. One might argue that this budget should
be increased to permit a larger allocation to transport, but
it would be difficult for a transport study to support such
an argument, for the following reason. In theory, the trans-
port planner can estimate the rates of return expected from
transport investments and, if he can produce so many projects
with rates of return above the test rate (1) that they exceed
the available budget, he can claim that public money would
be better spent on transport than in other sectors where such
profitable opportunities do not exist. In practice, however,
there are few other sectors where it is possible to estimate

(1)   The test rate is the rate set by government as the minimum
      acceptable rate of return.


                          -133-
                                                                    •

rates of return on investment. In education, health, defense,
sewerage, research and water supply -- all big spenders on
investment -- it is practically impossible to estimate rates
of return. The test rate is supposed to be the grand allocator,
the simple mechanism that separates the investments that can be
afforded from those that cannot, but because most public depart-
ments cannot estimate their rates of return, there is no way of
knowing what the test rate should be.

      Hence, in practice, the government has its investment
budget and divides it between sectors by means of subjective
judgements and economic calculations. It is then the task
of each sector to invest its money wisely.                              '.
      Thus the transport sector cannot argue for a larger budget         '.
without claiming that marginal transport projects are more
important than other projects for health, education, defense,
etc., or than private sector investments, or than personal
consumption; which are not arguments that the transport planner
can or would wish to make.
                                                                    .     "
      Consequently the size of the future transport budget
becomes a question of passive prediction -- what will be, not
what should be. Probably the strongest factor bearing on this
question is the status quo. Because there is no objective way
of determining the share of transport or any other sector, the
fact that it was x percent last year is a powerful argument for
keeping it at x percent this year. Of course there are other
factors. In times of recession, for example, the transport          . tl

sector usually suffers because cuts in transport investment
are less readily noticed by the public than cuts in other           ,     .;


services.
      For the purpose of this Study, the following way of fore-
casting the future transport budget was adopted: examine past
trends and extend them into the future, taking account of any           , .1

good reasons for expecting a change in the trends. The first
step was to obtain data on investment by mode in interurban
transport for the last ten years. In fact, there has been rela-
tively little other transport investment in Bolivia and it can
be ignored for the present. Total transport investment was then
expressed as a percentage of (a) public investment, (b) all
investment and (c) gross domestic product (GDP). Investment in
each mode was expressed similarly, since governments seldom
decide the claims of each mode separately
      Having obtained time series relating both global and sec-
toral transport investment to public investment, national invest-
ment and GDP, it was necessary to do three things:



                           -134-
    (i)   Predict the growth of GDP, national investment and
          public investment. Predictions of GDP were discussed
          in Chapter 7 and used in the formulation of develop-
          ment patterns. The predictions of national and public
          investment were made as percentages of GDP.
   (ii)   Predict the percentage of transport investment to
          total public investment. If there are obvious growth
          sectors(or new sectors) in public investment, they
          must be taken into account.
  (iii)   Look for new factors likely to change the past pattern.
          In Bolivia urban transport may soon begin to take a
          growing part of the transport budget, simply because
          the towns are growing much faster than the rural popu-
          lation and the needs of urban transport tend to grow
          as a power function of the urban population.
     It must also be expected that the transport budget will
be hit by the expected national recession during the next few
years. If GDP stops growing or grows slowly, while popu-
lation continues to grow, government will find it difficult
to maintain the level of social services. In such a time of
financial stringency, one of the easiest budgets to cut would
be the transport budget, especially since it appears to have
enjoyed high priority in recent years.
       An important part of the investment budget comes, and will
pr?bab1y continue to come, from foreign lending institutions.
Th~s fact does not alter the budget problem.   It is really not
possible to forecast any change in the amount of foreign aid
forthcoming except to say th~t a gradual increase (in real terms)
is expected. A drastic change would arise only as a result
of political upheaval. Otherwise, a steady increase in aid is
to be expected. But lending agencies are not tied to transport
projects. From a national point of view, transport investment
cornes out of the total investment budget, regardless of the
source of funds. The acquisition of foreign loans for trans-
port projects should not be used as an argument for increasing
the total investment in transport.
Past Investments
     Details have been gathered of the annual investment expen-
diture of the five dominant public agencies in the transport
sector, i.e. SNC, ENFE, LAB, AASANA, and COMIXTA (2). These

(2) The National Road Service, the National Railroad Company,
    the National Airline, the National Airport Administration
    and the Bolivian-Argentinian Joint Commission which is
    responsible for the new railroad construction north of
    Santa Cruz.

                           -135-
                                                                      '.
figures are only available since 1973. They are shown in
Table 8-1 and include highway maintenance and rail rehabil-
itation costs; the transport investment program recommended
in Chapter 18 also includes these items for which a trade-
off relationship exists with the standard of initial con-
struction. The rate of growth was high, averaging 38 percent
per year, which compares with a general price inflation of
about 17 percent. Hence one may say that transport invest-
ment was growing at roughly l8 percent a year in real terms.

      The investment of ENFE shows a large rise in recent             "



years due to the rehabilitation of rail lines. Annual in-
vestment by LAB. and AASANA was "lumpy", i.e. there were large
fluctuations from one year to the next. This was because
they are not very large enterprises and their investment pro-
grams were greatly affected by one or two big projects or the
lack of them. Over the whole period, 57 percent of the total
went to SNC, 22 percent to ENFE, l2 percent to LAB, 6 percent
to AASANA and 3 percent to COHIXTA.

      In Table 8-2, the figures of transport investment are
compared with figures in public investment, national invest-
ment and GDP.  In contrast to the fluctuating record of trans-
port investment, public investment grew quite steadily at an
annual average of 32 percent, national investment at 29 per-
cent and GDP at 25 percent.  In real terms, if one accepts the
index 9f general prices as an.index of inflation, the annual
growth rates were: public investment, 13 percent; national
investment, 10 percent; GDP, 7 percent; and transport invest-
ment, 18 percent.

      The last three columns of Table 8-2 show the relation-      I   ,

ships between the other columns. The last column shows that
national investment has obtained a growing percentage of GDP;
a three-year moving average shows a steady growth from 16.3
percent to 19.2 percent of GDP. The second-to-last column
shows that the public sector increased its share of national      ,   ,
investment in 1974 and maintained a percentage averaging 58.0
percent since then. The preceding column shows the percentage
of public investment that went to the five transport agencies.
This percentage rose from 14.7 in 1973 to 35.0 percent in 1978
before falling back to 19.3 percent in 1979, with an overall
average of 22.7 percent.

Projection

      All future costs and prices are shown in 1977 pesos. On
this basis, the GDP has been projected to reach 117,800 million
pesos in 1989 and 201,400 million pesos in 1999 (3).


(3)   This figure corresponds to Development Pattern C.




                            -136-
OVERLAYING NEAR COCHABAMBA




                                      APPLYING SURFACE DRESSING
                                      HUARINA - TIQUINA




                       HIGHWAY SURFACING
                              Table 8-1


                    TRANSPORT INVESTMENT, 1973 - 79
                    (Millions of current pesos)



YEAR       SNC(l)     ENFE   LAB     MSANA      COMIXTA   TOTAL

1973        166         36    18      54 (2 )      36       310

1974        345       113    104      72 (2 )     15        649

1975        424         99   284     113           27       947

1976        662       303     32      85           85     1,167

1977      1,.164       442   136      87           46     1,875

1978      1,533       856    590     131          92      3,202

1979      1,559       478     66      76                  2,179



(1)    Includes road maintenance - see Table 6-1 for recent
       breakdown of costs.

(2)    Estimated.

SOURCE:    various.




                             -137-
                                  Table 8-2


       TRANSPORT INVESTMENT AND NATIONAL RESOURCES, 1973 - 79

              1             2               3           4
          TRANSPORT     PUBLIC           NATIONAL                     RATIOS
YEAR     INVESTMENT   INVESTMENT        INVESTMENT     GOP      1:2       2:3   ..1.:.i..
              (millions of current pesos)                             (percentages)
1973        310        2,109                4,433     26,466   14.7      47.6   16.7
1974        649         3,635               6,468     44,339 17.9        56.2   14.6
1975        947        5,778                8,830     50,156 1G.4        65.4   17.6
1976      1,167        6,063              10,498      58,675 19.2        57.7   17.9
1977      1,875        7,502              12,776      68,842   25.0      58.7   18.6
1978      3,202        9,151              15,987      83,633   35.0      57.2   19.1
1979      2,179       11,305               20,366    101,614   19.3      55.5   20.0



                                                                                            "

Growth                                                                                          ..
1973-79     603%       436%                 359%       284%
Average                                                        22.7%     57.4% 18.2%        ";1




                                                                                            "I




                                -138-
Because of the economic recession expected during the early
1980s, it is predicted that GDP will rise by only 3 percent
per annum until 1985 and will then build up to the growth rate
of 5.5 percent assumed for the 1990s. This projection applies
to Development Pattern C. Patterns A and D have lower and
higher levels, respectively, which will be considered separate-
ly below.
     The projection of national investment is made at a rate
rising to 23 percent of GDP, to allow for some continuation
of the recent trend. The projection of public investment is
made at a rate falling to 55.5 percent of national investment,
i.e. a little less than observed in recent years, on the ex-
pectation that the private sector will increase its role through
industrial development.
     The historical trends for transport investment as a pro-
portion of public investment show a definite increase with time.
Using these would indicate that transport investment would form
about 30 percent and this was used as a high value for projec-
tions. However, in view of the country's financial position,
it is uncertain that this rate can be achieved, and so a low
rate of 20 percent was also used. Table 8-3 shows the projec-
tions from 1981 to 2000 for both the low and high rates. From
these, it can be calculated that the budget for transport in-
vestment in the two decades 1981-90 and 1991-2000 will be in
the following range, in 1977 pesos:

                 ESTIMATED INVESTMENT LEVELS IN MILLION PESOS
                     Transport
                  Low        Hi9h                Total Public
     1981-1990   23,600     35,400                 118,000
     1991-2000   41,700     62,600                 209,000

     The projection for the later period applies to Develop-
ment Pattern C. It is assumed that GDP in 1999 will be 20
percent higher in Development Pattern D, i.e. 241,700 million
pesos, and 10 percent lower in Development Pattern A, i.e.
181,300 million pesos. The proportion of GDP devoted to na-
tional investment is 10 percent higher in D and 15 percent
lower in A than in C. Table 8-4 shows the resulting projec-
tions of transport investment.
     The budget ranges estimated for 1981-90 and 1991-2000
are as follows:




                          -139-
                                                                      •
                                                                      ..
                                                                      ..
                          Table 8-3


 TRANSPORT INVESTMENT AND NATIONAL RESOURCES, 1980 - 2000

                      Development Pattern C
                 (1977 pesos in '000 millions)

                                                     TRANSPORT        ••
                     NATIONAL           PUBLIC      INVESTMENT
YEAR       GDP      INVESTMENT        INVESTMENT   Low     High

1977      68.8         12.8               7.5      1.9      1.9
1978      75.8         14.5               8.3      2.9      2.9
1979      80.4         16.1               8.9      1.7      1.7


1980      82.8         16.6              9.2       1.8      2.8
1985      96.5         20.1             11.2       2.2      3.4
1989     117.8         25.3             14.0       2.8      4.2
1990     124.3         26.7             14.8       3.0      4.4
                                                                  ,j

1999     201.4         46.3             25.7       5.1      7.7
2000     212.4         48.8              27.1      5.4      8.1




                                                                  "   ,




                         -140-
                                               Table 8-4

                     TRANSPORT INVESTMFNT AND NATIONAL RESOURCES, 1980 - 2000
                                   Development Patterns A and D
                                  (1977   pesos in '000 millions)


                     DEVELOPMENT PATTERN A                          DEVELOPMENT PATTERN D
                       National   Transport InvestIrent              National     Tran.5J.X)rt Invest:rrent
      YEAR    GDP     Investment   Low         Hi~Fi        GDP     Investment       Low          Hi9: h
      1977    68.8       12.8       1.9          1.9        68.8       12.8             1.9         1.9
 I
I-'
~
      1978    75.8       14.5       2.9          2.9        75.8       14.5             2.9         2.9
I-'
 I    1979    80.4       16.1       1.7          1.7        80.4       16.1             1.7         1.7

      1980    82.8       16.6       1.8          2.8        82.8       16.6             1.8         2.8
      1985    96.5       20.1       2.2          3.4        96.5       20.1             2.2         3.4
      1989   117.8       25.3       2.8          4.2       117.8       25.3             2.8         4.2
      1990   123.0       26.9       2.9          4.3       126.6       29.7             3.3         4.9
      1999   181.3       35.4       3.9          5.9       241. 7      61.2             6.8        10.2
      2000   189.3       37.0       4.1          6.2       259.7       65.7             7.3        10.9
                                                                            "
                                                                            •
                       TRANSPORT BUDGET IN MILLION PESOS
                           Low                    High
                A           C       i5     A       C         1:5

1981 - 1990              23,600                     35,400
1991 - 2000   31,700     41,700   56,400   47,900   62,600   84,200

Conclusion
     It is estimated that the transport budget likely to be
available in the decade 1981-90 is in the range of 23,600 to
35,400 million pesos.
                                                                          "
     A part of this should be allowed for urban transport.
How much, it is difficult to say, perhaps five percent. This
leaves 22,410 to 33,620 million pesos for non-urban transport.
     For the decade 1991-2000 the budget will be affected by
the rate of economic growth, which is more unpredictable than
in the earlier decade. Three low estimates of 31,700 million,
41,700 million and 56,400 million pesos, and three high
estimates of 47,900 million, 62,600 million and 84,200 million
pesos have been produced, each corresponding to Development
Patterns A, C and D respectively. It is considered that 10
percent of these amounts should be allowed for urban transpor~
reflecting its growing relative importance.




                                                                      ,   "




                                                                      : ,d




                              -142-

                                                                      i.4
     CHAPTER 9

EXISTING AND FUTURE
TRANSPORT DEMANDS
CHAPTER 9

EXISTING AND
FUTURE TRANSPORT DEMANDS
     As has been co~~ented upon elsewhere, the present
transport infrastructure in Bolivia, while for the most part
undeveloped, nonetheless offers considerable capacity in
excess of the demands made upon it. This chapter describes
transport demand in the base year (1977) and then analyzes
the expected future demands as projected by the transport
model. The first section is concerned with the transport of
freight within the country and between Bolivia and her
neighbors. The second section deals with the demand for
person travel, and the third unites the two earlier parts,
in discussing total transport demand in the major corridors.

Freight Transport Demand
     The fol~owing description of the base year transport
characteristics is based on data derived from a number· of
sources. Rail movements were taken from tables supplied by
ENFE, with some adjustments described in detail in Working
Paper 17, and summarized in Appendix 3B. River and lake
data were extracted from matrices of movements supplied by
the Bolivian Navy. Data on movements by pipeline were taken
from statistics published by YPFB (1). Information concern-
ing movements by road was derived somewhat differently, the
primary source being the roadside interview survey conducted
around the major cities as described in Working Paper 1, and
summarized in Appendix 3A. On the basis of this information,
synthetic matrices of movements were produced, which inclu-
ded estimates of movements not captured by the survey.
These matrices form the basis for this discussion.
     Freight movements in Bolivia can be divided into three
major categories: domestic traffic; international traffic
Which, in view of the country's geographical position and
limited domestic market, is of vital econonomic importance;
and international transit traffic which does not involve
Bolivian goods but does involve use of Bolivian infrastruc-
ture and, in many cases, equipment. The base year situation
and expected future developments will be discussed for these
three categories.

(1)   Diez Anos de Estad!stica Petrolera de Bolivia 1969 - 1978
      (Ten Years of Petroleum Statistics in Eolivia 196~   19'8) ,
      YPFB, La Paz,1979.


                            -143-
Freight Transport within Bolivia                                    •
                                                                    ..
     Tables 9-1 to 9-3 present the tonnages and ton-kilometer
of freight transported by each mode of transport, excluding        ..
gas and crude oil, for the tnree main years of analysis, 1977,
19a9 and 1999. The projections for the future year movements
                                                                    •
were derived from the freight model system described in Chapter
3, which begins by analyzing future grmv-tll in production and
consumption in the country and then allocates the result.ing
tran~nnrt flows to modes and routes.  In this table, and those
that follow, volumes for four future situations are shown.
     The 1989 Committed Network assumes that only those pro-
jects actually committed in 1980 are carried out -- in most
respects the infrastructure of the transport system remains
the same as at present. Also for 1989, the results of two
further computer tests are shown. One is for the 1989 Test
Network, which contains most of the candidate projects eval-
uated by the Study, as detailed in Chapter 10. Only those
candidate projects which duplicated others in the Test Net-
work were omitted. The third set of computer results for
1989 are for the 1989 Recommended Network, which contains
only those projects finally recommended by the Study for im-
plementation in the 1980s; that is to say, this network rep-
resents the recommended transport system for 1989. Finally,
the results for the 1999 Test Network are presented. This
network contains all the projects recommended for the 1980s
plus additional projects which could be viable by the end of
the century. The individual networks for each year are des-
cribed in the last part of Chapter 10.
     Tables 9-1 to 9-3 show only the forecasts of 'normal'
traffic; that is to say, movements linking the productions and
consumptions of goods input to the transport model. For the
committed network, this 'normal' traffic represents the entire
volume of goods forecast to be using the transport system.
The remaining networks contain various projects which improve
the transport system, either by opening up new areas previously
unexploited, or by reducing transport costs in existing corri-    ,1/

dors of communication. These improvements can be expected to
generate new traffic, essentially by stimulating the economy
of the country leading to greater production and consumption,
and therefore to more transport. The stimulus given will vary
by region, depending upon the location of new transport pro-
jects and the degree of improvement they bring about. For         14
this reason, generated traffic was estimated on a project-by-
project basis, and it is not possible to present an overall       1'1\
table showing the total volumes of generated traffic. As a
guide, though, generated traffice increased total road traffic
volumes in the Test Networks by about 6 percent. In addition,
the rail interconnection was estimated to have an important
generating effect, increasing flows on the interconnection by
just over 50 percent, adding 531,000 tons to the 1989 Test
Network and 1,325,000 tons to the 1999 Test Network, and in-
fluencing the traffic on all surrounding links.
                                                                  ill




                           -144-
                                                                 Table 9-1

                                            EXISTING AND PREDICTED INTERNAL FREIGHT TONNAGES




                          BASE YEAR (1977)      1989 COMMITTED          1989 TEST       1989 RECOMMENDED       1999 TEST
             MODE        000 tons   Percent   000 tons  Percent    000 tons    Percent 000 tons   Percent 000 tons    Percent
                                    ----
       Air                    41      0.3          74      0.3          64      0.3         69      0.3       110       0.3
 I
I-'
.c:-   Road               12,821     93.3      22,262     87.4      22,057     86.8     22,136     88.8    33,105      82.8
UI
 I                                                                   2,185               1,574              4,871      12.2
       Rail                  241      L8        1,978      7.8                  8.6                 6.3

       River                 200      1.4         147      0.6          63      0.2        135      0.5       116       0.3

       Pipeline (I)          438      3.2         992      3.9       1,038      4.1      1,015      4.1     1,774       4.4

         Total            13,731    100.0      25,453    100.0     25,407     100.0    ;:4,929    100.0    39,976     100.0



       (I)     Refined petroleum products only.
       NOTE:        This table does not include generated tonnages, which were calculated on a project-by-project basis.
                                                                                                            Table 9-2

                                                                                             INTERNAL TON-KILOMETERS BY l-10DE


                                                BASE YEAR {1977}                1939 COMMITTED                   1989 TEST             1989 RECOMMENDED                   1999 TEST
                                MODE           JlQ~-km    I>erCJmt             000 t-km   Percent              000 t-k.ro Percent     OJl~-k:m         Percent        000 t-km    I>ercent

                     RAIL Agriculture               11,483         0.7           90,362             2.4         148,100        3.3        85,765         2.5              396,604           5.2
                             Other                  74 f 017                   805,283                        1,481,996                630,769          18.3          2,943,177            38.7
                             Subtotal               85,500         5.5         895,645             23.6       1,630,106       36.4     716,534          20.6          3,339,781           43.9


                     ROAD Agriculture               547,362       35.6         907,746             23.9         970,399       21.7     870,396          25.3          1,553,294           20.4
                             Other              623,341           40.5     1,542,558               40.6       1,466,865       32.8   1,465,016          42.6          2,027,823            26.6
        I
        I-'                  Subtotal       1,170,703             76.1     2,450,304               64.5       2,437,264       54.5   2,335,412          67.9          3,581,117           47.0
        ""
        '"
         I

                     RIVER Agriculture               76,644        5.0           59,508             1.6          19,705       0.4         33,689         1.0               19,661           0.3
                              Other                  62,403        5.4           98,479             2.6          59,115       1.3         75,110         2.2               75 f 844        1.0
                              Subtotal          159,047           10.4         157,987              4.2          78,820       1.7      108,799           3.2               95,505           1.3

                     PIPELINE (1)               122,439            B.O         293,461              7.7         329,029        7.4          ,931        -!:..L            596,678           7.8


                     GRAND TOTAL            1,537,689            100.0     3,797,397              100.0       4,475,219 100.0        3,440,676         100.0          7,613,081           100.0


                     (1) Refined petroleum products only.




...ii         :.Ii       ,.
                         .            ,.;    ....          ...      Jij   ..   ,..;.   ...
                                                                                         '   ..    .. ...                 . .. .. .
                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                      "            •   •       ill   ..    .,   ..    •    iii    15   •
                                               GENERAL VIEW




CARGO FOR BOLIVIA




     GRAIN FOR BOLIVIA (HELD
       UP FOR ONE YEAR FOR
         LACK OF TRANSPORT)




                               ARICA PORT (CHILE)
                                                                           Table 9-3


                                                       INTERNAL COMMODITY MOVEMENTS BY ROAD AND RAIL

                                                                      (Thousands of tons)


                                         1977 BASE    1989 COMMITTED         1989 :rEST     1989 RECOMMENDED      1999 TEST
                  COMMODITY             Road RaH       Road    Ra11         Road    Rail      Road    Rail       Road    Rail
                                                                                                                        --
          Agriculture                  6,564   24    10,734    192        10,655    271     10,728    166      14,783    632

          Mining                          81    44      438    131           426     144       460    100         477     290

          Hydrocarbons    (1)            897    47    1,865     195        2,029       31    1,688    170       3,228     472
  I
.......
          Food                         1,301   20     2,069     106        2,043     132     1,773    179       3,689     280
"'I"
...,J


          Textiles                       101     1      133       2          131        5      134       2        194       9

          Wood and Paper                 437    43      711     214          560     364       758    157       1,121     704

          Chemicals                       59     6      144     104          132     116       190      59        318     437

          Building Materials           3,241    26    5,828     388        5,817     398     5,910     300      8,980     863

          Metals                          23    11      122     578           61     640       239     400        101   1,041

          Vehicles &     Machinery       117    19      218      68          203       84      256      41        214     143
                                                                                   --                --                 --
          TOTAL                       12,821   241   22,262   1,978       22,057   2,185    22,136   1,574     33,105   4,871


          (1)     The majority of hydrocarbons are carried by pipeline.
      'l'able 9-1 shows tonnages by mode.  In 1977, road transport
dominates in terms of total internal tonnage, with 93 percent
of tile movements, follo\,led by pipelines anc1 rail which carries          '.
a very small percentage. These proportion do not change very
significantly in future years apart from that of rail which is
discussed below.

     Hore meaningful than simple tonnage movements, however,
is the proportion of total ton-kilometers carried by each                  ..
                                                                            ~



mode. This is shown in TavIe 9-2. Although road still dom-
inates, rail is now relatively more important because of the
longer average haul length of 350 km (compared with only              , '\
91 km.by road). Hore surprisingly, river transport reveals
itself to be as important as rail in supplying ton-kilometers,
due to the very long average haul length of 750 km. Pipeline
transport, not all of whicH is shown in the table, accounts
for about 20 percent of all internal transport in terms of
ton-kilometers.
      Table 9-3 shows the internal freight movements by the
two main modes of road and rail and by commodity. The two
most important commodities are ag!icultural p~oducts (37
percent of the total in 1977) and hydrocrabons (28 percent
of the total). The bulk of hydrocarbons goes by pipeline
although about 60 percent of internal petroleum products
are distributed by road. virtually all agricultural pro-
ducts move by road, as dc, surprisingly, 60 percent of inter-
nal mineral movements. After agriculture, the most important
commo~ity for road transport is building materials which form
25 percent of total road tonnage.

     More details of base year and projected internal traffic
volumes are shown in Appendix 9A.                          .
     Internal Freight Flows in 1977 - The outstanding aspect of
the base year situation is the extremely low proportion of over-     I'

all internal freight movement carried by rail, which is surpris-
ing in view of the low standard of the road network and the
availability of reasonably lengthy hauls. This situation may
be partially, though not entirely, explained by the lack of a
connection between the Andean and Eastern rail systems, the low
level of availability of equipment on the railroads in the base
                                                                     '1'
year (due to poor maintenance and lack of traction) and perhaps
most importantly, the relatively high rail tariffs and the lonqer
haul times of rail versus road, rail averaging 40 percent longer
overall.




                            -148-
      Internal Frei2~t Flows.in ~989 - The mos~ strik~ng feature
of the internal fre~ght proJect~ons for 1989 ~s the ~ncrease of
rail transport, although its proportion still remains relatively
low. The increase in rail's share of total movements may be
attributed to two factors. Firstly, the projections in all but
the 1989 Recommended Network were based on variable costs only:
in the case of rail these form a lower proportion of total costs
than they do for road transport, thus there has been a shift to
rail. For the 1~89 Recommended Network, recommended tariffs
were used which are substantia~ly lower than current tariffs
for rail and higher for road transport. Hence the shift to
rail is still observed although it is rather less marked.
In addition there is a considerpble amount of industrial
expansion projected for areas served by rail lines. This is
most noticeable in the case of metals, where a large part of the
production planned for the Mutun complex is expected to be ship-
ped by rail to Santa Cruz.

     Comparing the projected movement pattern of the Test Net-
work with that of the Committed Network, there is a slight
increase in the proportion of total tonnage carried by rail.
The largest increase in usage is projected for wood and paper.
This may be largely explained by the inclusion of the candidate
rail extension to Trinidad. However, there is a significant
decline in rail carriage of hydrocarbons due to the inclusion
of several candidate product pipeline projects parallel to rail
links. The inclusion of the candidate rail interconnection
between the Andean and Eastern systems in the Test Network has
surprisingly little effect on rail's share of total normal ton-
nage (although a substantial volume of traffic is generated --
see earlier in this Chapter), but it does have a major effect
on the distribution of flows, as will be shown in the section
on total demand in major corridors. In general, the Recommended
Network volumes are similar to the Committed Network but with
less emphasis :on rail transport.

     River transport for the most part retains its share (I
percent) of total tonnage in the 1989 committed projection,
but in the test case its share declines sharply as a result
of the assumed construction of the Cochabamba-Trinidad road,
and a rail line and pipeline connection between Trinidad and
Santa Cruz. Also included is a road connection between Trin-
idad and Guayaramer1n, which diverts traffic from the river
route. In the Recommended Network, only the roads remain
in this corridor so that volumes are between those of the
Committed and Test Networks.




                          -149-
                                                                         •
                                                                         ,
     Turning to the analysis of ton-kilometers, the increase
in rail transport is even more marked than for the tonnages
carried. Average haul length grows from 350 km to 450 kID
over the period 1977-1989 and the construction of the rail
interconnection has a dramatic impact, the average haul length
rising to 750 km.  In the 1989 Recommended Network, the in-
crease in ton-kilometers is not so great because ~) tariffs
for both road and rail are at a higher level than in either
the 1989 Committed or Test Networks and b) less projects are
included than in the 1989 Test Network.  In terms of overall
movement, product pipelines retain their importance with 7
to 8 percent of the total.

     The volume of internal air freight is expected to nearly
double by 1989. The majority of this will continue to be
meat transported from the Beni to the population centers. In
the case of the Test Network, a slight decline in volumes is
expected as roads reach some of the more remote parts, and
transport of meat to the La Paz market by road in refrigerated
trucks becomes possible. This trend will likely continue, with
an increasing diversion from air to road transport during the
1990s.
     Internal Freight Flows in 1999 - The importance of the
individual modes remains much the same as in the 1989 case,
with rail increasing its share from6 to 8 percent to nearly 12
percent of total tonnage. River flows decrease further in
percentage terms with the increase in road access to the Beni
region and the continued operation of the pipelines included
in 1989.

     In terms of ton-kilometers rail increases its share of
total internal traffice from 21 percent in the Recommended Net-
work to 44 percent; this is due to the projected increase in
tonnage carried, and to the inclusion of the rail interconnec-
tion. Road remains the most important mode but only by a
narrow margin, with 47 percent of total ton-kilometers as
opposed to rail's 44 percent. This represents a complete
change from the base-year situation where road transport sup-
plied 76 percent of total ton-km, and rail less than 6 percent.
River declines further in importance with 1 percent of
movements, while pipelines retain a steady 8 percent of inter-
nal movement.

     In conclusion, the most important change projected to take
place in the next twenty years regarding internal freight move-
ments is the significant switch to rail which in base year car-
ried an almost insignificant proportion of tonnage and which by
                                                                    I'
1999 is projected to be supplying nearly half of all freight
movements internally. These projections, it must be stressed, are
dependent upon certain critical assumptions being made regarding
tariff policy for rail, which receives detailed discussion in
Chapter 17. Road remains extremely important in moving large        \,
tonnages over relatively short distances (an average of 100 km).
River, by 1999, is expected to decline significantly as a means
of internal transport.
                                                                    I,



                           -150-
                               SANTA CRUZ MONTERO




LA PAZ - ORURO




                 PAVED ROADS
Freight Transport between    Bolivia and Neighboring Countries
     As a consequence of her size and geographical position,
movements to and from the exterior play a very important role
in Bolivia's overall transport system. Tables 9-4 and 9-5
show Bolivia's foreign trade tonnages by commodity and by
mode for the years 1977, 1989 and 1999. For the base year,
this information was derived from data stored on computer
tapes, received from ENFE and the National Statistics
Institute (INE). For future years, an independent model was
used which took the generalized trade flows (except by
pipeline) between internal districts and external zones and
allocated them by mode to place of entry or exit on the
basis of observed 1977 data.
     Foreign Trade Flows in 1977 - Rail plays a much larger
role in the movement ox xreight into and out of Bolivia than
it does for internal transport, as one might expect with the
longer hauls involved and the virtual absence of good roads
in several export corridors. Rail carried some 81 percent
of total non-pipeline import tonnage in 1977, and 58 percent
of exports (71 percent of overall external non-pipeline
movement). If pipeline is included, the proportion carried
by rail falls, but still remains far larger than that carried
by truck (25 percent as opposed to 3 percent). However, as
might be expected, pipeline is the dominant mode, with nearly
70 percent of overall external tonnage and a similar proportion
of overall ton-kilometers (between the seaports and the
Bolivian origins and destinations).
     Turning to the commodities in external movements the
predominance of hydrocarbons is extremely marked, accounting
for 70 percent of total tonnages. No other individual
commodity forms more than 7 percent of total external tonnage,
minerals slightly outweighing agricultural products.
     Lake transport plays a significant role, in export traffic
especially, with about 8 percent of total non-pipeline export
tonnage. Virtually all of this is carried by rail between the
lake and the Peruvian seaport.  Air supplies about 1 percent
of import tonnage, and an insignificant proportion of export
tonnage.
     Foreign Trade Flows in 1989 - No radical change in the
supply of transport by individual mode is projected for
imports in 1989; rail's share of total non-pipeline tonnage
falls marginally to 75 percent with road transport carrying
some 18 percent. Regarding exports, however, there is a
significant change as waterborne transport becomes an important
element. About 43 percent of non-pipeline exports are expected



                            -151-
                                                                               Table 9-4


                                                         OBSERVED AND PREDICTED IMPORT TONNAGES BY MAJOR MODE (1)


                                                    1977                                    1989                                             1999
                   COMMODITY             KlAD       RAIL           WA'IER     FOI\D         RAIL            WA'IER                 0ClAD     RAIL            WA'IER

            Jlgricul. ture             19,630     143,346              5     50,340        133,700          18,270                 95,618   153,000          6,391
            Minerals                      591       2,799                       310          5,150                967                 883     5,485           1,598
            Hydrocarbons                3,022      25,720                     5,547         28,500                             19,992        27,764
            Food                       14,846      93,879         13,800     19,139         86,600              5,281              31,517    61,780           5,816
 I
I-'
U1          Textiles                    4,342       4,292                     5,425         10,750                                 1,428     15,530
h.l
 I
            Wood and Paper              7,074      14,091                     4,792         25,000                                  2,356     5,020
            Chemicals                  10,226       30,242         9,963     18,017         41,550              9,995          12,243        22,380           3,834
            Building Materials          6,396     104,033                     1,284         15,000                324              3,201     12,155              266
            loetals                    16,293       83,046        9,981      21,563         95,400              7,405          27,863       115,050           9,373
            Vehicles and Mach.inery     6,114       50,070         8,338     19,593        165,600          12,037             75,296       184,350          39,729
            'lUl'AL                    88,534      551,518        42,087    146,010        607,250          54,279            270,,397      602(514          67,007
            Percent                     13.0        81.0           6.0        18.1          75.2                6.7            28.8            64.1           7.1
             U)    Exclw.es pipeline and air tonnages.
             NOTE:  This table indicates mode of arrival in the country and so totals for rail do not agree closely with those given
             by ENFE for imports. For example, traffic moving via Guagui is recorded in this table under water and not rail, even
             though it then mainly transfers to rail. Similarly, some traffic arrives by road at the frontier and then transfers to
             rail. Also, rail statistics for 1977 do not distinguish international transit traffic. Finally, ENFE and INE statistics
             do not agree exactly.




      -;>             ~   ,:.,   -:;



                                                                                                   "   .i
                                                                                                            .     .,    lOt   ..
                                                                                                                                       ••             ...4   .   .     It   •
                                                                            Table 9-5

                                                 OBSERVED AND PROJECTED EXPORT TONNAGES BY MAJOR MODE (1)


                                               1977                                       19.89                                 1999
             CCMmI'IY           mAD           RAIL           WA'lER         mAD           RAIL            WA'lER     mAD         RAIL     .WA'lER
      .Agriculture             18,560        15,074                       156,604       165,560           10,115    239,330    509,440      20,000

      Minerals                 24,006       197,518        79,865          18,434       137,960           30,748     36,235    270,550      74,727

      Hydrocarllans                           2,100

I     Food                     64,929        46,989                       143,68B       100,750                     194,4B6    242,640      10,000
I-'
U1
IN    Textiles                        4           10           74           5,882        18,800               B09     9,000     33,000       7,050
 I

      Wood and Paper           10,485        35,008                        23,810       126,850              101     14,B19    167,340       3,000.

      Chemicals                18,072         4,659                         8,982        10,780             9,103    40,466     23,800       7,000

      Building Materials                          55                        8,657        94,250             6,069    29,047      49,550      4,500

      lIEtals                      281           811                        8,613        30,560           764,754     9,336    108,370     757,986

      Vehicles and Machinery                     738                        4(085        16,210             5,000    55,550      52,300     45,000

      'I'OTAL                  136,337       302,962       79,939         378,755       701,720           826,699   62B,269   1,456,990    929,263
      Percent                   26.3           58.3         15.4            19.8          37.0              43.2     20.9        4B.3        30.8

      (1)    Excltrles pipeline arrl air tonnages and potential agricultural exports on Paraguay River.
to travel by water (as opposed to 15 percent in 1977)1 this
radical change is brought about through the development of
the Mutun complex, the products of which are expected to be
exported via the Paraguay River. The proportion of tonnage
carried by water may increase still further than shown, since
these projections exclude any major agricultural developments
in the eastern region of the country, the products of which
would also use the Paraguay River. These are likely to be
much more significant in 1999 than in 1989, but may still
have some impact by the earlier year.                               ,    .~




     As a result of the increase in river transport, rail's
share of non-pipeline export traffic falls to 37 percent
and that of road transport to only 20 percent. In absolute          . ·ci

terms, however, both modes will substantially increase their
export tonnages, which are expected to be between 100 and
200 percent above the levels of 1977.
     Air played a very small part in the total of external
freight movement in 1977, shipping small quantities of high
value goods. It is possible, though unlikely by 1989, that
its role will become more important with the growth in
exports of agricultural products, in particular meat. This
possibility receives more detailed discussion in Chapter 15.
     Foreign Trade Flows in 1999 - Obviously the projections
for 1999 should be treated with care: the forecasts of
foreign trade rely on a number of assumptions which mayor
may not be shown to be correct as time passes.   Much less
reliance should be placed on these conclusions than on those
for 1989.

     The position of the modes relative to one another is expec-
ted to remain much the same as 1989, with rail handling by far
the greatest import tonnage (64 percent) and carrying more export
tonnage than other modes (48 percent). The figures shown in the
table refer to non-pipeline transport and continue to exclude
possible agricultural developments in eastern Bolivia, that might
be exported via the paraguay River. Even when the construction
of the rail interconnection is taken into account, the overall
modal split does not alter significantly, since the major ex-
pected shift is from one part of the rail system to another, not
from one mode to another. Air is likely to playa larger part in
export traffic by 1999.
     It should be noted that all foreign trade flow projections     "
assume a continuation of current policy on the part of Bolivia
regarding the use of the available ports in the neighboring
countries. Should a major switch take place from the use of
one country's facilities to another, this could have a corres-
ponding impact on the mode of transport used to carry               I,




                          -154-
                                                                    H'
the goods: for example there is no rail access to the
Peruvian port of Ilo, nor reasonable road access to the
Chilean port of Antofagasta. Changes in the use of these
facilities have clear implications in the division of
transport demand between the modes. Alternative policies
regarding usage of foreign ports have been examined when
evaluating proposed projects in international corridors
 (see Chapter 15).
    More details of external movements are presented in
Chapter 15 and Appendix 9B.
International Transit throush Bolivia
     Bolivia shares a border with five countries, namely Peru,
Chile, Argentina, Paraguay and Brazil. Thus, there exists
considerable potential for transit traffic through Bolivia
between all these countries. However, many share common bor-
ders with direct road and rail connections -- the flows of
which might naturally pass through Bolivia are the movements
between Peru and Chile on one side, and Paraguay, Brazil and
Argentina on the other. Several routes are available using
the Bolivian rail system while the condition of the internal
road system and the distances involved are such as to dis-
courage transit traffic by truck. The main available routes
are as follows:
      (i)   Puno (Peru) - Guaqui - Cochabarnba - Santa Cruz -
            Corumba (Brazil)
     (ii)   Puno (Peru) - Guaqui - Villaz6n - La Quiaca (Argen-
            tina)
    (iii)   Arica (Chile) - Charana - Cochabamba - Santa Cruz -
            Corurnba (Brazil)
     \iv)   Antofagasta (Chile) - Avaroa - Santa Cruz - Corurnb~
            (Brazil)
      (v)   Arica (Chile) - Char ana - Villaz6n - La Quiaca
            (Argentina)
     (vi)   Antofagasta (Chile) - Avaroa - Villaz6n - La Quiaca
            (Argentina)
     The present transport between Peru/Chile and Brazil re-
quires a transfer to road transport between Cochabarnba and
Santa Cruz. Table 9-6, showing the volumes carried in 1979
on these routes, demonstrates that the transport consists
almost entirely of metals, with some wheat and cement carried
as well. The most important flow in terms of tonnage is that
from Argentina to the Chilean port of Antofagasta, amounting
to 65 percent of what is admittedly a small total. However,
it is thought this flow was an unusual occurrence, brought
about by temporary capacity constraints on the Argentinian
rail system; the most stable flows are undoubtedly those of
metal from Peru and northern Chile to Brazil. Accordingly,
in projecting future transit traffic, particular attention
has been given to these movements.

                             -155-
                                           Table 9-6

                  INTERNATIONAL TRANSIT TRAFFIC ON BOLIVIAN RAIL SYSTEM, 1979


                                ROUTE                               COMMODITY                         TONS
      Peru - Brazil
           Guaqui-Cochabamba-Santa Cruz-Corumba             Copper '.and zinc                         6,780
 I
           Guaqui-Villaz6n (rail line to Co~ interrupted)   Garlic                                      121
I-'
V1    Chile - Brazil
CTI
 I         Charana-Cochabamba~Santa Cruz-Corurnba           Copper, zinc, antimony                      919
           Avaroa-Cochahar:-ba-Santa Cruz-Corumba           Copper                                    5,422
      Argentina - Chile
           Villaz6n-Charana                                 Cereals                                    301
           Villaz6n-Avaroa                                  Flour                                   27,600
      Chile - Argentina
           Avaroa-Villaz6n                                  Cement                                    1,209

        Total                                                                                       42,352 /




                                             AI             iii   ...   .,0   ..   q)   ...   '"   ...ill    ...,..   ...
      Projecting transit traffic ten and twenty years into the
future is extremely difficult, since it is a function of many
uncertain developments, not least the economic futures of the
various trading partners. A simple projection has been made,
assuming that trade between the countries concerned will
continue to grow at the same rate as the economy of the
leading partner (Brazil in this case), as has been the case
historically, and that the great part of this trade will use
Bolivia as a transit corridor: this is more likely to be so
in the case of Peru than Chile, where alternative routes to
Brazil exist. Thus, only about one fifth of the total Chilean-
Brazilian trade is assumed to pass through Bolivia. The
likelihood of Bolivia becoming a transit corridor would be
greatly strengthened by the construction of the rail inter-
connection between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba; however, this
project is not recommended until the 1990s.
     1989 Transit Traffic - Based on the assumption that the
Brazilian economy will grow at the approximate rate of 7
percent per annum, as it has for the past 5 years, trade with
the relevant countries is projected at a similar rate. A
total potential transit tonnage of 39 2 ,000 tons is thus
predicted for 1989. Of this, 57 percent is Brazilian-Chilean
trade, the remainder being trade between Peru and Brazil.
     1999 T~ansit Traffic - Assuming a higher growth rate of
9 percent for the Brazilian economy after 1987, which is not
unlikely if it frees itself during the 1990s from its present
energy constraints, the potential transit volume through
Bolivia will rise to over 900,000 tons by 1999. However, this
figure should be treated with extreme caution as major changes
in trading patterns may have occurred by that time. Also,
population shifts in Chile and possible changes in relative
tariff levels of competitive routes (either overland via
Argentina or by ship) make this a very speculative figure.
     It is not considered likely that the construction of a
rail interconnection in Bolivia would generate nlajor flows
between Brazil and the Pacific ports. The relatively high
costs of overland transport would certainly outweigh those of
waterborne transport between Brazil's Atlantic ports and, say,
Japan. Even for transport to and from Brazil's western states,
a cheap route exists via the Paraguay River, thus making it
unlikely for this traffic to pass through Bolivia.
   More details of transit traffic movements are presented in
Appendix ge.
Passenger Travel
   Table 9-7 summarizes passenger travel by each mode for
the base year and demonstrates that passenger movements are
overwhelmingly dominated by road which serves over 95 percent
                         -157-
                                              Table 9-7


                                        PASSENGER TRAVEL, 1977

                                        (Thousands of passengers)




                     MODE                  INTERNAL        %     EXTERNAL          %        TOTAL            %

            ROAD    Cars                     7,076     14.4           8          1.6         7,084      14.3
                    Buses                   23,488     47.8          16          3.2        23,504      47.2
                    Trucks                  15,929     32.4          49          9.9        15,978      32.2
                    Motorcycles                874      1.8                                    874       1.8
 I
I-'
\.11
00                  Subtotal                47,367      96.4         73         14.7        47,440       95.5
 I


            RAIL                             1,175        2.4       162          32.5           1,337        2.7


            LAKE                                                      2           0.4               2


            AIR     LAB, TAM                    594       1.2       131          26.3            725         1.5
                    Other                        19                 130          26.1            149         0.3

                    Subtotal                    613       1.2       261          52.4             874        1.8


            TOTAL                           49,155     100.0        498         100.0       49,653      100.00




       ."                         :;:
                                                  ,~
                                                                            ~     ~.    ~   4     ~.     ~       ~   •   ~
of overall demand. Most road passenger movements in 1977
were made by bus; this is particularly true for movements
between department capitals where bus accounts for nearly
two thirds of all movements. The other major carrier was
truck, and movements by car were quite low. Motorcycles
account for an insignificant proportion of movements.
     It is interesting to examine more closely passenger travel by
truck. About one third of all truck passengers were in groups
of six or less. About 75 percent of the remainder, or 7.5
million passengers, travelled in trucks otherwise empty,
devoted in fact to passenger transport.
     Of the remaining modes, rail is the most important for
passenger transport. This is closely followed by air, the
volumes reflecting the fact that many towns, particularly in
the Beni and Pando, have no alternative access by road.
     In terms of geographical distribution of passenger trips,
the departments of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz dominate
with over three quarters of all recorded passenger trips.
     Turning to external movements, the picture changes
dramatically, with air carrying by far the greatest proportion
of trips (52 percent). This is considerably more than the
next most important mode, rail, with about a third of all
trips. Road accounts for only 15 percent of external
passengers, most of these travelling -- surprisingly -- by
truck.
     Future Passenger Transport - Passenger travel forecast
for 1989 reflects an annual increase of slightly over 2
percent. A certain shift from road to rail transport is
projected by the transport model, especially in the case of
the Test Network, which envisages a more extensive rail system.
     The rail passenger increases are similar to those projected
for freight: higher than average increases are predicted in
the Committed Network for the Eastern system and in the Test
Network for the sections affected by the rail interconnection
Santa Cruz - Cochabamba.
     The number of internal air passengers is expected to
increase by over 20 percent per annum during the coming years.
Major leaps in demand, such as that experienced in 1977 - 78,
are unlikely in the future, since jet service now exists
between nearly all major cities. Air transport offers the
most rapid and convenient service between these cities, and
will continue to provide the only access to many towns in the
northern region of the country.




                         -159-
     External passenger flows are expected to increase in line
with the general level of passenger movements internally.
External air movements increase slightly more than internal
with the likely growth in the tourist sector within Bolivia
attracting more travellers from abroad.
     More details on passenger movements are presented in
Appendix 9A.

Transport Demand in Major Corridors
     In this section, the major flows of passengers and freight
within the country are analyzed. They are discussed for 1977,
1989 (Recommended Network) and 1999 for road and rail. Internal,
international and transit traffic are included in the flow              •
maps of this section. Road traffic volumes are shown as total
daily vehicle flows, while rail volumes are in terms of
annual tonnages.
     Road Transport -   The largest generators of road
traffic are the major cities of the country -- La Paz, Santa
Cruz and Cochabamba. In 1977, La Paz generated the most
passenger movements (7,030,000) followed by Santa Cruz
(5,606,000) and then Cochabamba and Oruro. On a departmental
basis, however, Santa Cruz generated more trips (4,529,000)
with its larger dispersed population, followed by La Paz and
Cochabamba. With regard to the generation of freight
movements, Santa Cruz department dominates with over 40
percent of total tonnage (5,547,000), followed again by the
departments of La Paz (2,151,000) and Cochabamba (1,917,000).
     When these figures are converted into vehicle flows and
assigned to the 1977 network, it is clear that vehicle
movements are largely concentrated in a central corridor
running due south from La Paz to Oruro and then eastwards to
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. As shown in Figure 9-1, movements
in other parts of the country are mostly very small, averaging
60 vehicles per day on unpaved roads. The most heavily
travelled corridor of any length is that between La Paz and
Oruro which has a good paved road connection. The highest
volumes overall are found in the corridor to the north of
Santa Cruz, which to some degree is due to the urbanized
nature of that zone.
     With regard to 1989, the overall increase in volumes has
been commented upon earlier. As evident from Figure 9-2, the
rise in vehicle movements is well distributed throughout the
system, the most notable increase being for the Potos! and
Cochabamba areas. A substantial increase in truck traffic is
projected for Potos!, partly due to the assumption in the
Recommended Network that the roads from Potos! to Oruro,
to Totora Palca and partly to Sucre would all be paved.



                         -160-
                                                                   .'
                                  Son
                                  de Moxos




                                                   Villorroel




                                                                       10

                                                                            Puerto
                                                                            Paiios




Salinas de
Gorei Mendoza




                                                                       Forlin
                                                                       Villolon




                19n DAILY ROAD VEHICLE MOVEMENTS

                                                                FIGURE 9-1
                      Son




Cerro
Toronl
         L




             Villa




                                               Bermejo




                     1989 DAilY ROAD VEHICLE MOVEMENTS

                                                         FIGURE 9-2
     The overall level of generated truck traffic, brought
about by the projects assumed in the Test Network, is not
great, the variations between regions reflecting the amount
of new road building assumed: the cities with the greatest
increase in truck traffic are those now connected by the
paved roads just described.
     The situation in 1999, presented in Figure 9-3, shows an
overall increase in truck traffic of about 45 percent over 1989,
considerably lower than the increase projected for the period
1977-1989 (80 percent).  The most noticeable increases occur in
the Sucre and Tarija regions; these may be explained by the
assumption that Sucre would be the focal point of three new
paved roads to the east, west and north, while Tarija would
benefit from new paved roads from Potosi, Villamontes and
Bermejo.
     Rail Transport - As has been remarked upon earlier, inter-
national flows form a very important part of volumes carried on
the rail system. For this reason, they have been distinguished
in the three figures depicting base year flows and the projec-
tions for the 1989 Recommended and the 1999 Test Networks.
Flows have been projected for each of the ten major commodity
groups but only total tonnages are shown in the figures for
clarity.

     In 1977, freight flows were concentrated in the two main corridors:
Viacha-Oruro-Uyuni and Santa Cruz-Coru~b§. External flows
heavily outweigh internal traffic in both volume and distance
travelled. As shown in Figure 9-4, the most heavily used part
of the whole systerr is the section between Uyuni and R!o
Mulato, carrying nearly 500,000 tons of which about 87 percent
is external traffic. The lowest flows in the system are found
on the Cochabamba-Aiquile line (8,000 tons), on the section
between Santa Cruz and Santa Rosa (28,000 tons), on the stretch
linking Sucre with Potos! (32, aaa tons) and on the link saving the
lake port of Guaqui (50,000 tons, most of which is import
traffic). These figures ~erely serve to emphasize the
extremely low utilization of the Bolivian rail systew: many
stretches carried less than one train a day in base year.

     For 1989, depicted in Figure 9-5, a large increase is pro-
jected in the amount of rail traffic. The major proportion of
the increase comes in internal traf~ic. This is particularly
noticeable on the Santa Cruz-Corurr~a line which will be used for
the transport of metal products from Mutun to Santa Cruz as well
as movements from the new cement plant at Yacuses.

     The external flows experience a much lower percentage in-
crease than internal movements, but still approximately double
throughout the system. Major increases are projected for the



                                -161-
Viacha-Oruro section and larger increases on the links to the
ports of Guaqui and Arica. Flows on the southern part of the
network to Avaroa and Villaz6n are not projected to increase,
reflecting the growing volume of Bolivia's trade with the coun-
tries of the Andean Pact, particularly Peru. Major growth is
expected on the Santa Cruz-Corumba line as exports to Brazil
and other destinations from Santa Cruz increase.
     Figure 9-6 shows that once again a large increase in inter-
nal flows virtually throughout the system is forecast for 1999.
The effects of the inclusion of the rail interconnections from
Cochabamba and Sucre via Mataral to Santa Cruz are particularly
significant. These particularly increase flows on the La Paz-
Oruro-Cochabamba sections, these cities now being directly
linked to the east of the country. The peak internal flow is
projected for the new section between Mataral and Santa Cruz.
Owing to improved road connections, the rail volumes between
Rio Mulato and Uyuni are projected to fall, but elsewhere on the
system they rise by as much as three times. The highest volume
of internal traffic is on the section linking Mataral with Santa
Cruz (2.4 million tons), the lowest on the Sucre-Potosi line
(136,000), where no increase is projected from 1989, again partly
due to improved road connections.
     The inclusion of the rail connection Santa Cruz-Cochabamba
in the Test Network brings about major changes in the distribu-
tion of foreign trade flows as exports and imports to and from
the Santa Cruz region use the Pacific rather than the more dis-
tant Atlantic ports. Figure 9-6 demonstrates that large in-
creases could occur on the Oruro-Cochabamba line and the links      .   I


to the ports of Guaqui, Arica and Antofagasta.
     water Transport - For water movements some comment needs
to be made upon the changes projected for this mode. In the
base year a substantial amount of freight (approximately 200,000
tons) was moved on the Ichilo-Mamor~ river system, the major flow
being between Puerto Villarroel and Trinidad. The flows projected
on the Committed Network for 1989 show no change for the sections
to Guayaramerin and Magdalena, and increase corresponding to the
general growth in the Beni. Growth is not as high in the Puerto
Villarroel-Trinidad section as there is competition from new
roads in the south Beni. In the Recommended Network, a further
road is assumed (Cochabamba-Trinidad) which reduces demand for
river transport. In addition, the Test Network contains a road
to Guayaramerin, parallel to the river, and a road to Magdalena
which would be shorter and much quicker than the river route.
In 1999 internal volumes decline still further on the Trinidad-
Puerto Villarroel section, though doubling elsewhere on the
system. Volumes between Trinidad and Guayaramer1n are thought
likely to reach 100,000 tons by 1999 with the inclusion of ex-
ternal traffic and the movement of cattle to the border town
for export.


                          -162-
1999 DAILY ROAD VEHICLE MOVEMENTS

                                    FIGURE 9-3
    ,                                                                                                 o TRINIDAD
    \~ [T9!T]                                                                                                                                     ~"'"                                                      LEGEND


    (
                                                           \                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                         ,                                        INTERNATIONAL AND TRANSIT TONNAGE
    ,                                                                                                                          ,-----,.~                            ~
    \                                                          1'"                        r"'-T                                                                     [:?:::::~:q                   DOMESTIC               TONN AGE
                                                                                          "                                                                          ::;:;:_:_:.:_:4.;_;'..
        , GUAOUI                                               \
                                                                 """
                                                                 \ '-"
                                                                 '.
                                                                      "
                                                                          .... "
                                                                                   -_/
                                                                                      /   "
                                                                                               \
                                                                                                ~

                                                                                                           ;'
                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                -   - ---   -~-----/)



                                                                                                           ,                                                                                                                             (
                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
/J/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



                                                                                                               ~            '~'\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         \
,
I f.J      -
                                                                                                                        ,..-"                                                                                                                 "~''')
   .. CHARANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
        ~            /                                                                                                      MATARAL
                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \
                                                                                     .~        AIQUILE             \
           '\                                                                        '~
                                                                                     ~  '\....,.,/

                \,                                                                                                     ---(\                                                                                                                            ;'
                                                                                                                                   "v-;
                         <.             -.. . . .   --~.
                                                                                                                                       \, I


                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                  - - l '.- /
                                                                                                                                                                                                         . - - - - ---      -~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ""-." I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     . CORUMBA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (BRASIL)




                         ~
                                                                                               r                                          \   I
                                                                                                                                              ,
                                                                                                                                              \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             --- "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I /'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
                         '~-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                               )
                               :-
                              \
                                                                                                                                                                ;
                              t,.
                                                                                           !
                                                                                          II       /"~..               _,      J"'-                          ---J
                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                                              l    _..
                                                                                                                                                                                                           50       100     150   200   km


                                    \                                                          !                                                                                                           I mm = 100,000 IOns




                                                                                                    1917 ANNUAL TONNAGE flOWS BY RAil

         iI)Itt/(l? !J'mil/' and .;rI~joc.'ale(j                                                                                                                                                                                        FIGURE 9-4
                            I            't.
,

)
       11989
          ( RECOMMENDED)
                                          t
                                          I
                                                                                                                                                          -,.                                                      LEGEND

                                              \.                                                                                                            •                                      INTERNATIONAL AND TRANSIT TONNAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                          W~
;                                              \




~                                                  <"- ",
                                                   \                                               ,,-- --\-
                                                                                                                                        --------\
                                                                                                                                                                                          mmmmmi   DOMESTIC          TONNAGE

                                                       \           ---,                       J                                                                                                                  - .-- -- - ----)
                                                       \,                 --.-.'
                                                           \
                                                               1                                                        )                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                                   r
                                                           I




                                                                                                                            ~-,                                      SANTA CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "-
                                                                                                                              ,/"                                                                                                                  "l,
.CHARANA


    'y'"                                                                  "..........,                                      .
                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \
     ,
                                                                                             "'"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         \




       \.                                                                                    ..\,~"'\                       \,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                            ,     ,,--'-,      \



                                                                                             -/
                                                                                             1_              -II'         '
                                                                                                                              '--i,
         \                                                         '\
                                                                                                              SUCRE
                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                            VI
              ~,      I
                                                                                                             --"'\
                ,II .....   ~                                                                                       ,
                )                                                                                      ,.-/                                      I
                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                  I

                ,"
                                                                                                   (                                                  ~
               <                                                                                                                                                ----_ ... -(
                                                                                                ( ~
                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                       I

                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                                                                      I




                                                                                                ! : , j "-..                            ~--                      -------.J
                                                                                                                                                                         ,        I


                                .
                                I
                                                                                                '~                                 --                                         I                    o       '0      100      150    200 kill



                                \                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                      ./  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       1111111    100,000   tOni


                                    '\                                                          - .- --......
                                                                                                V1Ll\AZON
                                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                            r'                        /

                                                                                                               1989 ANNUAL TONNAGE flOWS BY RAil
    i.i)ft/6ut .'Fmillt and A:.:.ocialpJ                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 9-5
                                                                                                                        LEGEND
.]                                     \                                                   ,
                                                                                           ,                     International       and     Transit Tonnoge
                                                                            ----------...:::,.
                                           1"'_                  /~-\                                            Inter n al   Tonnage
                                           \         '""'- --   ,J      :
  ~CHA                                         \\
                                                    ,,
                                                                        !                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                          ,



                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                       CRUZ


                                                                                                                                                                   "l,
\CHARA_~
                                                                                                                                                                       \
                                                                                                                                                                           (
                                                                                                                                                                           I




            ')
              t'-u _____~~LR,i~st-
                 ,          ',.-/
                                           ~;nr                                                         I
                                                                                                            ,-                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                          ":   "
                                                                                                                                                                   ',COR   UM~A
                                                                                                                                                                             I

                                                                                                                                                              {/~) (BRAZIL)

             "                                                                                   ---



                                                                                                                 o      50     100      50       20e     km
                                                                                                                                        "!ioiiiiiiooii


                                                                                                                          mm   = 100,000      !on




                                                                     1999 ANNUAL TONNAGE FLOWS BY RAil
<i)fil6ut ffmiti! and .;itJocciate(J                                                                                                                     FIGURE 9-6
      CHAPTER 10

  TRANSPORT PROJECTS
SELECTED FOR EVALUATION
CHAPTER 10
TRANSPORT PROJECTS
SELECTED FOR EVALUATION
     There is no shortage of plans for the development of
transport in Bolivia. They range from quite minor schemes
such as the regravelling of some existing roads, to ambitious
major investments, such as the interconnection of the two
~ail s~stems.  A few projects are currently being built,
1nclud1ng two new paved roads and a new rail line, but most
projects are only plans or concepts, often with only an
approximate idea of their cost, potential benefits and priority.
For road and rail alone, the projects which have been suggested
would cost nearly ~50,OOO million pesos. In contrast, the
entire budget for inter-urban transport investments is unlikely
to exceed 34,000 million pesos for the next ten years (1), (of
which nearly 13,000 million pesos are already committed), and
55,000 million pesos for the 1990s. Clearly, many projects
have to be postponed, reduced in scope or rejected in.select-
ing an investment program for the decade 1981-1990.
     This chapter first examines the deficiencies of the exist-
ing transport system, then identifies transport projects which
are completely committed and goes on to present the candidate
projects selected for detailed evaluation by the Study. Fin-
ally, the transport networks defined for the computer model are
presented.
Deficiencies of the Transport System
     The main population centers of the country are separated
either by severe, and sometimes unstable, mountainous terrain
or by plains subject to seasonal flooding and containing large
rivers which are liable to change course from one year to
another. It is not surprising, therefore, that the transport
system has many limitations. However, it would be wrong to
describe all these limitations as deficiencies, with the
implication that they have to be corrected. Given the terrain,
the often tortuous alignment of the mountain railroads is an
acceptable solution to the problem of linking population centers
at an economic cost. Given the conditions of landing strips
and the volume of trade, the use of 1940s vintage aircraft may
be an acceptable low cost solution to the problem of lifting
meat supplies from the low lying Beni to the 4,000 meters
high Altiplano. There are deficiencies, though, and in the
two examples just quoted, the generally low level of maintenance
of the rail track in one, and of the aircraft in the other,
is a cause for concern. In the rest of this section, the
principal deficiencies of each mode, as well as some of the
more insoluble limitations, will be identified.
(1)   See Chapter 8.
                        -163-
                                                                        ..
                                                                        •
     Railroads - The railroad system is narrow gauge with
infrequent passing tracks but, even with a large increase in
current volumes, there are unlikely to be capacity problems
in the near future.
                                                                        '.
      The principal deficiency of the railroad is the poor
quality of the track which is mainly the result of insuffi-
cient maintenance. ENFE acknowledge that at current levels of
maintenance, the track is gradually deteriorating. The problem
is made worse by the fact that the initial construction of the
railroads was not to a high standard. In particular, sleepers
were laid directly on to the soil base without ballast. A
program of rehabilitation and ballasting is now under way with
World Bank support, and on such rehabilitated lines maintenance
requirements are reduced considerably. By the end of 1979,
433 km of the total ENFE system of 3,643 km had been rehabili-
tated.
     Inadequate prov~s~on of drainage structures in the or~g~n­
al design has made some lines vulnerable to flood damage 1 an
example is the section of the Santa Cruz-Corumb~ line near
Robor~ which was washed away late in 1978.  Other lines pass
through unstable mountainous zones subject to earth slides and
disruptions during the wet season. Especially affected are
the Cochabamba-Oruro line and the Atocha-Villaz6n line. Realign-
ments of the track in these zones could alleviate these problems.
                                                                    , '1

     Six of the nine departmental capitals have rail connections,       ,I
the exceptions being Cobija and Trinidad in the north and Tarija,
in the south. However, the rail system is divided into two
parts, the eastern and the western systems which are not con-
nected except by a detour through Argentina. Therefore, Santa
Cruz is isolated from the other departmental capitals with
                                                                    '1
rail connections. There are projects to remedy this situation,
with proposals for four separate interconnections as well as
links to the departmental capitals of Trinidad and Tarija.
      There are problems in the operation of ENFE which stem
from lack of equipment and a low serviceability rate, the
latter due to inadequately equipped and staffed maintenance
facilities. Action is currently being taken to improve these
aspects with funds from the World Bank Third Railway Project
Loan.

     Highways - The principal deficiency of the highway system
is the poor quality of road surfacing. Only about 1,300 m,
of paved roads are open to traffic, with another 120 km under
construction. Unfortunately, many of the existing paved roads
have deteriorated badly. For example, the Cochabamba-Santa Cruz
highway, built in the 1950s and which accou~ts for.over a t~i7d
of the paved roads in the country, now requ~res maJor rehab~l~­
tation. The deterioration is attributable to insufficient
maintenance but has been accelerated by the high(illegal)axle       ,   "\

loads prevailing on large trucks.

                         -164-
     The rema~n~ng roads are surfaced either with gravel or
earth. In the basic road network modelled in the computer,
there are over 6,000 km of each type. Although such roads
can be satisfactory for low volumes of traffic, the surfaces
in Bolivia are remarkably poor. Oversized stone is used on
the gravel roads, so that even frequent grading is not suf-
ficient to maintain a smooth surface. In fact, grading and
other maintenance operations are not performed frequently
enough so that the unpaved surfaces are often very poor.
     There is also a lack of bridges and minor drainage
structures. In the central region, most rivers can be cross-
ed at all times, except for periods of a few hours after
heavy rain. Similarly, the lack of drainage structures does
not necessarily make routes impassable, but it does confine
them to reasonably rugged vehicles. However, there are some
routes in the central region which are impassable throughout
the wet season of December to March.

     In the flat northern and eastern regions, many rivers
can be crossed only be ferries, but here the size of the
rivers, and their likelihood to alter course, make the provi-
sion of bridges prohibitively expensive in many cases, for the
current levels of traffic. Also in these flat regions, there
is a lack of drainage structures. These need to be much lar-
ger than in the mountainous regions in order to pass the large
volumes of flood water in the wet season. The San Borja to
Trinidad road, for example, cuts across many water courses and
is on a high embankment to raise it above flood levels, but it
lacks a number of small bridges and many drainage structures,
and consequently it can be interrupted in the wet season for
long periods.
     The unpaved mountain roads, which form a large part of
the main road system, are generally narrow and poorly aligned.
However, volumes are low with no unpaved road reaching more
than 400 vehicles per day in 1977, and with only about 500 kms
with more than 200 vehicles per day, so that the poor align-
ment and narrow surfaces cannot be regarded as such serious
deficiencies as the poor surface. Lack of capacity is defi-
nitely not a problem tOday on Bolivian roads (see Appendix lID).

     Mainly in the north and east, there are large areas with
no road connection at all, and these are therefore entirely
dependent upon river and air transport. Given the very small
size of these communities, it is not clear that lack of roads
can properly be classed as a deficiency. Indeed, the linking
of all these remote areas by means of a road system is proba-
bly a luxury which Bolivia cannot afford for many years,
although the selective and gradual development of such roads
will be necessary to exploit fully the resources of these
regions.
                         -165-
     There are fewer missing links in the road system of the
central region. In all cases, the gaps occur in areas of
severe terrain and separate comparatively small communities.

     Air Transport - The most glaring deficiency in air trans-
port is the lack of a proper air navigation and communications
system. The equipment in use is old and unreliable and does
not form a complete network. With some major exceptions,
such as the operations of Lloyd A~reo Boliviano (LAB), the
same neglect of air safety evident in air communications extends
to other parts of the air sector. Maintenance of the non-
regular aircraft fleet is poor and the system of inspection        •
and enforcement of basic regulations regarding the airworthiness
of aircraft and the fitness of crew leaves much room for
improvement.
     Most departmental capitals have, or are building, airports
with paved runways. The two exceptions are potosi, where the
gravel runway is being improved, and Oruro, where the existing
gravel runway is sufficient for present requirements. The run-
way facilities are, or will be, adequate in all cases with the
exception of Cochabamba where the runway is too short for the
optimum operation of modern passenger jets (a plan exists to
correct this). With the rapid growth in air passenger movements,
pressure is now being felt on the terminal facilities at a num-
ber of departmental capital airports. Mainly on urban planning
grounds, Santa Cruz airport is now being rel?cated to Viru Viru    •
and there is also pressure tQ relocate the a1rports at La Paz
and Cochabamba. An alternative project for Cochabamba, pro-
posed for safety reasons, is a runway on a new alignment at
the existi~g airport.

     Airfields in other parts of the country are, for the most
?art, primitive. Th~ basic construction of the airstrips
1S poor and maintenance is negligible. This effectively
restricts their use to certain types of 1940s vintage aircraft,
although F27 passenger aircraft can be operated from some air-
fields.   These airfields are liable to be closed for periods
in the wet season and poor systems of air communication and
navigation, mentioned earlier, result in severe restriction
or cancellation of operations in poor weather.
     There are several daily flights between the three major
cities of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz but many other
centers, including departmental capitals, have flights only
once or twice a week. While more flights would certainly
generate more traffic, it is not clear whether the demand for
travel is currently suppressed by inadequate services, nor
whether the provision of more services could be economically
justified. This question is examined in more detail in
 Chapter 14.



                         -166-
COCHABAMBA - VILLA TUNARI




                                         COCHABAMBA-SANTACRUZ
                                         (NEAR SANTA CRUZ)




                                       POTOSI - SUCRE
                                       (NEAR SUCRE)




                  EARTH SLIDES ONTO HIGHWAYS
     Rivers - River transport is the least developed of all
the transport modes in Bolivia. The basic facility is the
river itself, and little has been done to enhance its natural
attributes. River ports are generally crumbling, muddy banks
with all transfer of cargoes by manual labor. The abundance
of labor and the instability of the river banks have dis-
couraged the introduction of mechanical handling but the lack
of such equipment need not necessarily be classified as a
deficiency. Probably the main deficiency is the presence of
hazards in the river caused by sand bars and embedded tree tr-
unks. These restrict downstream navigation to daylight hours,
generally limit speeds and are sometimes the cause of major
accidents and loss of boats. There are plans to clean the
Ichilo-Mamor~ river between Puerto Villarroel and Guayaramerfn
over a period of years.
     The wide meanders of the river system also result in long
journey times, and there are ambitious plans for canals to
shortcut some of the bigger river loops. These canals would
also have the advantage of bypassing many of the river obstruc-
tions which would otherwise have to be cleared.
     There are major rock obstructions in the northern part
of the river system, making it impossible to navigate between
the Mamor~ river and the western river system (the Rivers
Beni, Madre de Dios and Orthon). More important, the rock
obstructions also block navigation from all the Bolivian rivers
to the main Amazon system in Brazil.
     In the southeast, Bolivia has access to the Paraguay River
but at present has no proper port facility. Puerto Busch is
a metal barge tied up to the river bank and has no land access
in the wet season. At Quijarro a port has yet to be developed
so that exports now have to use the Brazilian port of Corumba.
Lack of an adequate port and suitable access facilities is a
hindrance to the exploitation of the vast Mut~n iron ore
reserves and this must be regarded as a deficiency. Silting
on the Paraguay River is also a problem, although the solution
to this lies mainly in the hands of Brazil and Paraguay.
     Lake Titicaca - Of the two main lake services, the rail
roll-on/roll-off ferry between Puno (Peru) and Chaguaya near
the Matilde mine (Bblivia)is adequate, especially considering
that production at the Matilde mine has declined over recent
years.




                         -167-
     The main deficiency of the Guaqui-Puno service is in the
cargo handling facilities. Cargo is transferred between rail
wagon and boat by ancient steam cranes in both Guaqui and
Puno, and this is a relatively costly and time consuming           •
process. Possibly, unit handling techniques (pallets and
containers) might be encouraged to reduce time and costs.
Unfortunately, the difference in gauge between Bolivia and
Peru rules out a simple roll-on/roll-off ferry, as between
Puno and Chaguaya, although this could be accomplished if
combined with a rail wagon change-bogie facility. Solutions
to these problems must be considered in relation to plans to
improve the road and complete the rail link around the lake,
and this is discussed in Chapter 15.
     Pipeline Transport - This is a very specialized type of
transport, but once a pipeline is constructed, its operation
can be straightforward. In fact, the operations of the Nation-
al Hydrocarbons Company (YPFB) are relat~vely sophisticated with
multiple-product pumping and frequent modifications of the
pumping program. These follow reviews of supply, demand and
transport costs (including costs by other modes, where appro-
                                                                   •
priate), to ensure optimum use of the pipeline system. All
major centers are connected to refineries by petroleum
product pipelines and further development of this system must
wait on growth in demand. A trunk gas pipeline system is
currently being considered by YPFB.
                                                                   •
      Possibly the major deficiency of the pipeline system is
the lack of import and export lines. The line to Arica proba-
bly must be reversed in order to import heavy crude oil, which
Bolivia lacks. This leaves one export facility to Argentina
for the disposal of Bolivia's excess of light gasoline products
and, unfortunately for Bolivia, Argentina can supply its own
needs for these products. Hence, Argentina is prepared to offer
only a low price for the Bolivian product.

Committed Projects
     A certain number of transport projects were taken to be
completely committed and were therefore not examined in detail
by the Study.
     The definition of a committed project required some care.
In general, projects were only considered committed when
financing was completely assured. This includes many projects
in construction, but not all, since many projects proceed as
and when funds are available with no definite timetable. It
was considered that the Study could usefully comment on priori-
ties in these cases, and so such projects were included in the
list of candidate projects for evaluation.




                          -168-
     Projects considered as committed by the Study are illus-
trated in Figure 10-1 are are discussed below.
      Committed Railroad protects - The line from Yapacanl to
Rio Grande, which is part 0 the projected railroad from Santa
Cruz to Trinidad, was taken to be committed by the Study, al-
though not without a certain amount of controversy. It was a
condition of World Bank funding for the Third Railroad Project
 (which includes this Study) that no further work should be done
on the Santa Cruz-Trinidad line without proper feasibility
study employing consultants. However, by the time the Study
evaluations had started, an agreement had already been signed
between the governments of Bolivia and Argentina, committing
Argentinian funds to the project, and construction work has
now commenced. There seemed little point, therefore, in eval-
uating this section of the line. Instead, the Study concen-
trated on the as yet uncommitted final section of line from
R!o Grande to Trinidad.
     Completion of the third phase of the railroad rehabilita-
tion program is committed with World Bank assistance and a
Study of the proposed Motacucito-Puerto Busch line is also
committed.
     Committed Highway Projects - The following projects are
in construction and are fully committed and financed, with
construction expec.ted to be completed well before 1989:
     l.   La Paz - Cotapata                     (paved       47   km)
    2.    Bella Vista - R~o Quiquibey           (gravel   -  67   km)
    3.    Rio Quiquibey - Rio Yucumo            (gravel   - 42    km)
    4.    R10 Yucumo - San Borja                (gravel   - 50    km)
    5.
    6.
          R10 Yucumo - Puerto Salinas
          Quillacollo - Confital
                                                (gravel
                                                (paved
                                                          - 113
                                                          - 105
                                                                  km)
                                                                  km)
    7.    San Ramon - Trinidad                  (gravel   - 367   km)
    8.                            ..
          San Ramon/San Julian - San Javier     (gravel   - 46
                                                          -
                                                                  km)
    9.
   10.
               ..
          San Javier - Concepcion
          Potos~ - Tarapaya
                                                (gravel
                                                (paved
                                                             62
                                                             19
                                                                  km)
                                                                  km)
   11.    potosi - Uyuni                        (gravel   - 240   km)
   12.    Guanay - Mapiri - Apolo               (earth    - 210   km)
   13.    Sorata - Mapiri                       (earth    - 205   km)
   14.    Puerto Rico - Conquista               (earth       60   km)
   15.    Conquista - Blanca Flor               (earth       65   km)
   16.    Cobija - Porvenir - Chive             (earth    - 152   km)
   17.    Pto Siles - San Joaquim - San Ramon   (earth       89   km)
~e following three projects were also considered to be fully
committed with financ~ng assured (by the Interamerican Develop-
ment Bank - IDB), although construction has not yet started:
    18.   Cotapata - Santa Barbara              (paved       38 km)
    19.   Confital - Caihuasi                   (paved       58 km)
    20.   Chimore - Yapacan!                    (paved    - 153 km)

                          -169-
     Some projects suggested by the National Road Service
(Servicio Nacional de Caminos - SNC) were not included as
committed since funding appeared uncertain. These are:
     •   Eteramazama - Rio Ichoa               ( 80   km)         •
     •   Santa Rosa - Riberalta                (420   km)
     •   Charazani - Apolo                     (180   km)         •
     •   San Ignacio de Velasco - Concepcion   (178   km)         ••
     For the same reason, the completion of the San Borja -
Trinidad road was not included as a committed project as          •
there was no definite funding to complete bridges and drain-
age structures.
     In addition to highway construction projects, a major
road maintenance project for the three districts of Cocha-
bamba, La Paz and Santa Cruz is committed with World Bank
funding. A feeder road project is also committed with USAID
funding, although the project is currently suspended.
     Committed Air Projects - The following projects were
considered to be committed:                                       •
     •   Construction of Santa Cruz (Viru Viru) airport
     •   Construction of Cobija airport
     •   Construction of Puerto Su~rez Airport
     •   Construction of Riberalta Airport
     •   Improvements at Potosi Airport
     •   Completion of Tarija airport improvements
     •   Runway repairs at Trinidad                               ,
     •   Air Navigation and Communication Equipment Plan.
                                                                  •
     Projects for airports in the Beni at San Borja and Santa     ,
Ana de Yacuma, even though approved and partly financed by        •
the World Bank in 1978, have made so little progress since
then that they were not still considered to be committed.         •

     These projects are all discussed further in Chapter 14.
Candidate Projects
     A list of projects for evaluation was compiled for each
mode based mainly upon plans provided by each of the modal
organizations. The initial list of projects was circulated
to many organizations interested in transport development.
These included each of the modal organizations, the development
corporations for each departmen~ and various government min-
                                                                  •
istries. Based upon comments received, and upon a better
understanding of the problems as evaluation proceeded, a re-      ,
vised list was made, which is included in Appendix lOA. Each
project was defined by the location of the end points and was
                                                                  ,
numbered for ease of reference during the evaluations.


                          -170-
                                                                       lU£NO
                                                                  _ _ '''''[0110''0)
                                                                  _ _ _ _ UNf'iI'V[O ROAD       IN   COif~"UCTION


                                                                  +0++++++ ItAI. LINE           ASSLlftD "MAIICIN!;




                                                                  _            PAYEOffOAO\'

                                                                  ~            "All UN(     >   COWPlETED SINCE       r~77

                                                                  - - - UIIIP.w£DRIJ,lO/




                                                                  r·




         Q

          o




              Q




                                   COMMITTED TRANSPORT PROJECTS

U)fillu.. [fmil" and Jlooocialeo                                                                                    FIGURE 10-1
QUILLACOLLO CONFITAL




                           LA PAZ -COTAPATA




     MAJOR ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
     The projects chosen for each mode are discussed below:

     Candidate Rail Projects - Candidate rail projects are
illustrated in Figure 10-2. The basic characteristics and
estimated costs are shown in Table 10-1.

     The principal rail project, and one of the most impor-
tant projects to be evaluated by the Study, is the rail system
interconnection linking the western network at Aiquile (east
of Cochabamba) to the eastern network at Santa Cruz, and pass-
ing via Mataral (Projects 100 and 101). Almost 400 km in
length, and expected to cost about 10,000 million pesos,
this would be one of the most ambitious projects to be included
in a future transport plan. It would link the two rail sys-
tems and, at the same time, provide the main missing link in
a trans-Continental railroad linking Brazil with Chile and Peru.
     Other possible interconnections between the two systems
include lines from Tarabuco (east of Sucre) to Mataral (Pro-
jects 103, 104 and 104A), from Tarabuco to Cuevo (near Boy-
uibe) (Projects 103 and 105), from Cochabamba to Yapacani
(Project 116) and an interconnection in the south which would
pass via Tarija (Projects 108 and 109).

      The last section of the Santa Cruz - Trinidad railroad
 (Project 102), from the projected terminus on the Rio Grande
of the section currently under construction, was included at
an estimated cost of just over 1,000 million pesos. Two pro-
jects were considered linking the iron ore deposits at Mutun
to Motacucito on the Santa Cruz - Corumb~ line (Project 106),
and to Puerto Busch on the Paraguay River (Project 107).
These projects depend upon the strategy selected for develop-
ing Mutun and for providing a port on the Paraguay River.

     A small project in the west was included, linking Guaqui
to Desaguadero on the Peruvian border (Project Ill). This
project is entirely dependent upon Peru constructing the line
from Puno to Desaguadero, alongside lake Titicaca (Project 114).
     A branch line was considered to Camiri (Project 117), which
in the major town near the Santa Cruz - Yacuiba line without
rail connection.

     A rail project was considered linking Bermejo in Bolivia
with Oran (Project 115), a rail terminus in Argentina.
Although the benefits to this project would accrue to Bolivia,
construction would be almost entirely in Argentinian territory.

     A new rail project was included from La Paz to Rurrena-
baque in northern La Paz (Project 110). This would be a repeat
of the now abandoned and dismantled railroad into the Yungas
from La Paz, and would be a very expensive undertaking at an
estimated 17,000 million pesos.



                         -171-
                                                                                            '.

                                                               Table 10-1

                                                         CANDIDATE RAIL PROJECTS
                                                                                       MAXIMUM MINIMUM
                                      PROJECT                  TERRAIN         LENGTH GRADIENT RADIUS                ESTIMATED COST
                                                                                   (km)               (%)     (m)   (millions of 1977$b)
              100    Aiquile-Mataral                     Mountainous                 184          2           130        4,462
              101    Mataral-Santa Cruz                  Mountainous                 207          2           130        5,016
              102    Rio Grande-Trinidad                 Flat                        149          0.8         300          983
              103    Tarabuco-Zudanez                    Mountainous                  61          3            77          300
              104    Zudanez-Vallegrande                 Mountainous                 150          2           130        2,730
              104a   Mataral-Vallegrande                 Mountainous                  55          2           130          994
              105    Zudanez-Cuevo                       Mountainous                 302          2           130        7,308
              106    Motacucito-Mutun                    Flat                         26          0.8         500          184
              107    Mutun-Puerto Busch                  Flat                        107          0.8       1,000        1,059
     I        108    Balcarce-Tarija                     Mountainous                 250          2           130       10,500
    I-'
    -..J
              109    Tarija-El Palmar                    Mountainous                 180          2           130        4,356
    N         110    La Paz-Rurrenabaque                 Mountainous                 500          3           130       16,600
     I
              111    Guaqui-Desaguadero                  Flat                         25          0.8         500          100
              112    Oruro-Cochabaroba improvements      Mountainous                  12                                   465
              113    Robor~-Taperas improvements         Flat                        102                                   360
              114    Puno-Desaguadero                    Flat                        150                                   585
              115    Or~n-Bermejo                        Flat                         50          0.8         500          200
              116    Cochabamba-Yapacani (1)             Flat to Mountainous         380                                 9,720
              117    Camiri branch line (1)              Flat to Undulating           45                                   300

              (1)    Very rough estimate.

              SOURCE:      Costos de Construcci6n de Ferrocarriles (Costs of Railroad Construction), Working
                           Paper 38, Bolivia National Transport Study •




•        11   It"    If.     1B   •    .,   ••••   II   •••••••••              !Ii    if.        5-     * ........       4   ....      ,.
50    0
'---'                                              NOTE : NUMBERS REFER TO 100NTIFlCATION
                                                                  IN TABLE 10 ­ I




              ...




o
 ()




                                                   t  r
                                                               ------~"'/




                                                                               \>
                                                                                     -,
                                                                                     I"'OTOI




                                                                          (.

                                                              'i.




                                                                    .,~
          o
                                   ,\ II   I   I; X T I   ~   ,\




                    CANDIDATE RAIL PROJECTS

                                                                                    FIGURE 10-2
     Two major realignment schemes were included to avoid
unstable regions on the existing lines from Oruro to Cocha-
bamba (Project 112 - in fact three separate schemes; see
Chapter 13) and from Santa Cruz to Corumb! (near Robor~)
(Project 113). The Oruro - Cochabamba line has always been
affected b~ earth slides in the wet season. The Corumb~ line
near Robore was badly damaged by floods in the 1978/79 wet
season and it is believed by some that conditions in that
area were fundamentally changed so that the line in now per-
manently unstable and liable to disruption each wet season.
     Not included in the map, but evaluated by the Study,
was the rehabilitation of the existing lines of the rail
system which involves ballasting of the track, replacement
of sleepers and some small bridges, and minor realignments.
     The equipment needs of ENFE over the next ten years
were also evaluated. Finally, the Study considered a pro-
posal for the electrification of the railroad system.
     Candidate Road Projects - Candidate road projects are
shown in Figure 10-3 and are listed in Table 10-2. Over
13,000 km of road are included, which may suggest a bias
towards road projects at the expense of other modes. How-
ever, this is not really so. Most of the projects in the
central, southern and western regions of the country are
improvements of existing highways which, with the exception
of parts of the limited paved system, are generally in poor
condition. Proposed improvements range from simple regravel-
ling to major realignment and construction. Indeed, each
candidate project consists of a number of alternatives from
which one was selected as a result of the forecast traffic
levels and economic evaluation. For this reason, it is not
possible to present a compact table of design characteris-
tics and cost for each project. These are discussed in
detail in Chapter 11.

     A rather different type of higl.way project was considered
in the Pando and Beni departments and in northern La Paz and
eastern santa Cruz. These regions have few roads and vigorous
attempts are being made to correct this. New roads are under
construction to Trinidad from La Paz and San.ta Cruz, gravel-
ling is in progress on the Santa Cruz - Concepci6n road and
new penetration roads are being built in the regions of Cobija
and Puerto Rico in Pando, and to Apolo and Ixiamas in La Paz.
However, vast regions still have no regular road access and
the cost of developing a network in these areas on the scale
shown the Figure 10-3 would be very high --' in the region of
15,000 million pesos. In general, the distances are very
great and the communities to be linked very small.




                          -173-
                                                                                            Table 10-2

                                                                                    CANDIDATE ROAD PROJECTS

                     PJ\NOO tEPARlMENT                           Pa:OCSr IEPARl'MENT                                     ClltQUISACA IEPARl'MENT
               600   Nacebe-Riberalta                      650   Uyuni-Tupiza                                      710   Sucre-Padilla
               601   HunaitlS:-cachuela Esperanza          651   Cuchu Ingenio-M:>jo                               711   Padilla-MUyupampa
               602   cachuela Esperanza-Fortaleza          652   M:>jo-Villaz&                                     712   Villa Serrano-Pucara
                                                           653   Potos!-Tc:rratas                                  713   Boyuibe-VillCllDltes
                     LA PAZ IEPARl'MENT                    654   Potos!-Sucre                                      714   Penas-Fortln Villaz&
                     Ixianas-au.~
                                                           655   Potos!-Uyuni.                                     715   Azurduy-Palos Blanoos
               610                                         657   Uyuni-Avaroa (formerly OllagueJ
               611   San BiJenaventura-Ixiamas
                                                           658   Uyuni-Quetena                                           TARIJA IEPARl'MENT
               612   Apolo-'lUnapasa
               613   Adlacachi -charazani                                                                          720   Iscayachi-M:>jo
               614   Achacachi-Sorata                                                                              721   Padcaya-Be:mejo
                                                                 BENI lEPARl'MENT
               615   Huarina--1lchacachi                                                                           722   Tarij a-VillCllDltes
               616   Tiquina-Cbpaoabana                    670   Cruce Blanca Flor-Ri.beralta                      723   VillCllDltes-Yacuiba
               617   R!o Seoo-Desaguadero                  671   Cruce Blanca Flor-Santa Rosa                      724   Zapatera-canbar!
               618   Viac:ha-Corocoro                      672   Blanca Flor-Cruce Blanca Flor                     725   Trarentinal-Carapari (near Yacu1ba)
         I
       .....   619   La Paz-I..aIri:Jate                   673   Cruce Blanca Flor-Puerto Siles
       ..,.
       -...I   620   Ulduavi- Inquisivi                    674   Puerto SHes-Guayaranerfn                                SJ\NTA CRJZ IEPARIHNT
        I      621   Inquisivi-Panduro                     675   Trinidad-San Miguel de Gasser
               622   Inquisivi -Independencia                                                                      730   Mataral-Vallegrande
                                                           676   San Miguel de Gasser-Santa J\na de YaClllla
                     Patacamaya-Puerto Japcn~                                                                      731   Santa Cruz-Boyuibe
               623                                         677   San Miguel de Gasser-San RaOCn
               624   Santa BAt:bara-Bella Vista                  Santa Ana de YaClIlla-Santa Ihsa                  732   Santa Cruz-Cbtoca-Puerto Pailas
                                                           678
               625   Viacha-Glarafia                                                                               733   Adapt rail bridge over R!o Grande to take road
                                                           679   San R:m'5n-Magdalena
               626   Olarazani-Ap:>1o                            Magdalena-San Ignacio de Velasoo                          as well
                                                           680
               627   Lairbate-Ia Plazuela                        Magdalena-ca.sarat:e                              734   Pail&-Ias TrcIloos
                                                           681
                                                                 Trinidad-San Ignacio de M:>xos                    735   Pail.6n-San Jose de Chiquitos
                                                           682
                     ORtJR) IEPARlHNT                            San Borja-San Ignacio de M:>xos                   736   San J~ de Chiquitos-<:OJ:'U'llb!
                                                           683
                                                                                                                   737   San Rafael-San Mat!as
                                                           684   EteranazCllla-San Ignacio de Moxos
               630   Puerto J~-Tamto Quenado                                                                       738   MutCn-Puerto Busch
                                                           685   Bridge over the R!o McmJ~
               631   caraoollo-Tamto Quemado                                                                       739   M.lyupanpa-Ipat!
                                                           686   San Joequ1il-La Ibrquilla
               632   Oruro-Caihuasi                                                                                740   Val1egrande-Ipit!
               633   Madlaca:narca-Unc!a                                                                           741   Bridge over R!o Grande at Puerto Ba1egas
                                                                     CDC.H1IBAMBA IEPARl'MENT
               634   Machaasnarc:a-Olallapata                                                                      742   Orioepci.&-San IgnaciO de \elasoo
               635   O1allapata-lJyuni                     690   Quillaoollo-Independeneia                         743   MutGn-Quijarro/'Puerto S\l.1rez
               636   O1allapata-Tarapaya                   691   Ind:!penc:'k!ncia-I.equepalca                     744   San Jos(S de Chiquitos-Fortln Ravelo
               637   Ule!a-Sucre                           692   Vint0-i30l1var
               638   Oruro-Sabaya-Pisiga                   693   R!o caine-Anzaldo                                       EXTERNAL
               639   Santiago de Huarf-Llica               694   Epizana-Sucre
                                                           695   Aiquile-Palizada                                  750   Desaguadero-Puno         (Peru)
                                                           699   Bolivar-Anzaldo




.,   JIll      lit • • •        It :j     ., til   •   j    •    4       • 4      ••       • 4    •   ~   •    •          II!   ..   w   •    •    •   •   ~   ••   •     ,
                                 1                                                 NOTE : NUMBERS REFER TO IDENTIFICATION



                                 ~
                                                                                         IN TABLE                10- 2


    50             0             100   200Km .
    I              I                      I


                                                                              t,


                                                                                              ,..
                                                                                                    -/

                           .
                           ("l

                           ~

                             d




    o
     (')

        III

         l> 

         2

           o
              1J                                                                                                                                        (
                                                                                                                                             \
              l>                                                                                                                   \.
                o                                                                                         " ", ,'.            \'
                                                                                                             \'                              \ .
                                                                                                    \',                            \',
                                                                                              \\                              \)
                                                                                        \.
                                                                                         '\
                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                   (.       "
                   ()                                                1
                                                                     \   --                          \
                                                                                                          ' ."
                                                                                                                 ,~
                                                                                                                         :­        "
                       C
                                                                 AUOE l\:           T   r ;>,:,\




r
                                                 CAN DIDAlE ROAD PROJ EClS
                                                 ,

                                                                                                                                                        FIGURE 10-3
     Since the communities to be served are by no means
isolated, being served by river and air transport, the strate-
gic and regional integration reasons for providing these
road links did not appear overwhelming. Perhaps a rich
country could afford to build such a network, although the
experience of Brazil is cautionary, but it was concluded that
Bolivia is definitely not in such a position. However, it
was agreed that the provision of penetration roads is essential
to the development of the resources of these regions, provided
that they are built with a complementary feeder road system
and that the pace of road development is matched by the set-
tlement and development of the newly opened regions. Thus
the evaluation of these roads d~ds highly on the analysis
of the potential agricultural and mineral resources of these
regions, and on the location of markets, and less on the need
to complete links of a national highway system. This analysis,
termed the producer surplus analysis, is described in Chapter
12 together with a detailed description of the penetration
roads considered.
     Bridge projects were generally considered separately from
the road candidate projects and only two major river crossings,
the River Mamore west of Trinidad, and the Rio Grande east of
Santa Cruz, were given separate project numbers. The evalua-
tion of bridges is described in Chapter II, with the exception
of the Rio ~amor~ crossing (Project 685) which is discussed
in Chapter 12.
     Candidate Air Projects - Thirty-six separate airport pro-
jects were identified for evaluation. They are listed in
Appendix lOA and illustrated in Figure 10-4.
     A range of costs were estimated for each airfield and
this is discussed in detail in Chapter 14.
     Other special projects selected for evaluation are the
use of wide-bodied jets to carry foreign trade, and the use of
dirigibles for cargo transport. Plans for the re-equipment
of LAB (Lloyd A~reo Boliviano, the National Airline) fleet
and for the modernization of the non-regular aircraft fleet
were also examined.
     Candidate River Projects - River transport candidate pro-
jects are shown in Figure 10-5 and are listed in Table 10-3.
      On the Paraguay River, the main issue is the choice of a
location for a new river port, partly to serve the needs of
the Mutun project but also to provide an outlet for other
Bolivian exports. Two locations were identified, Puerto Busch
 (Project 201) and a port at Quijarro (project 203), which were
compared with the alternative possibility of continuing to use,
and developing, the facilities in the Brazilian port of Corumba.


                        -175-
                                                           Table 10-3


                                                CANDIDATE RIVER PROJECTS

                                                   PROJECT                                        ESTIMATED COST
                                                                                                 6;nillions of 1977$b)
                                                                                                               (1)
          200      Improve condition for navigation on the Paraguay River                                  24
          201      New port on Paraguay River at Puerto Busch                                            900
          203      New port near Paraguay River at Quijarro                                              680 (2)
          205      Improve Bermejo River from south ot Bermejo to the Paraguay River                   5,580
          205(a)   Build canal from south of Bermejo to the Paraguay River                              (3)
  I
          206      Clear Mamore River of rock obstructions between Guayaramerfn and Villa Bella         (3)
.......   207      Bypass Cachuela Esperanza (between Riberalta and Villa Bella)                        (3)
.......
0'\       208      Clear obstructions on Madeira River between Villa Bella and Porto Velho(Brazil)      (3)
  I       209                                                                                           300 ( 4)
                   Construct all-season canal from Mamore River to Trinidad
          210      Provide new port facilities at Puerto Villarroel                                      46
          211      Provide new port facilities at Trinidad                                               46
          212      Provide new port facilities at Guayaramerfn                                           46
          214      Equipment for river cleaning between Puerto Villarroel and Guayaramer!n               30 (5)
          215      Port on Rfo Grande at terminal of rail line currently under construction from
                     Yapacan!                                           -                                46


          (1)   Between Corumba and Puerto Busch.
          (2)   Includes cost of dredging the Tamengo Channel.
          (3)   Cost estimates not available.
          (4)   Assumes average 7 meter depth of excavation.
          (5)   Cost of boat plus equipment •




  • • • • • • • • • • • 4.4                     Ittl   ,   •••••••• 4             1It   ••••••        .i.4         ..   "
                         )
50         0
                         ~
                         100   ZOOKm .
I          I                     I




                   ...




                                                                                      SAN JOSE
                                                                                      OE CHIQUITOS
                                                                                  523
                                                                                                   ROBORE
    o                                                                                        522




                                                                              ,r----------
     III
     )

       2
         o                                                            ... ,
                                                                                                                 G
                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                   \>
                                                                                        \J ~
                                                                                  ~                     v
                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                   ~

                                                                                                            (>
                                                                                                                 \J
                                                                                                                      F
                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                               ~
               o                                              '\---                      ~

               o
                                                          .\ R G   E~TIN.\




                                         CANDIDATE AIRPORT PROJECTS

                                                                                                             FIGURE 10-4
                             )                                                           ••


50       0
                                ~  100   ZOOKm .
I            I                             I                                                          ~ :                  NUMBERS REFER TO IDENTIFICATION IN
                                                                                                                                            TABLE        10 - ,


             :0                                                              " ;~
                 t'l                                             / "                 J
                                                            0/
                 ~                                         .J
                  ~.
                                                                                 ,
                                                                                  J
                   al                    ~ l_ .
                                                                             /
                       r'                 r
                       ...                                               ~
                        ..
                        f'
                                                  ,                  7
                                                                     ~
                            d
                             trl              )                  )
                                                                   1 .-1--
                                                                  .!L


                                                                 '(
                                                                 J




 o
    ()




     z
         o                                                                                           ' .. "       I
                                                                                                                      /
                                                                                                                        -----------
                                                      ,
                                                  ~, )~ ... . .                                                                                                        \
                                                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                                           \.>
                                                       (                                                                                            ~



                                               .~.' t/-'
                                                                                                                                              ~


                                                                                                                                                                                     ~~
                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                 y.
                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                                                                                                   '-'
                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                              "            \\                       \)
                                                                                                                      ~.     .                                                 \oJ   )
                                                                                 i                                                                               ,..
             ()
                                                                                 !
                                                                                              \ -.
                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                 \ ,              »
                                                                                                                                                         \\                "
                                                                             i
                                                                                                                                       '. ~
                 o                                                                                                                       "
                                                                   R EP l ' B            AHGEX T I;:-JA




                                                                      CANDIDATE RIVER PROJECTS

                                                                                                                                                                           FIGURE 10-5
Issues of sovereignity are involved here, but the Study con-
fined itself to a comparison of costs. An important factor
in evaluating the alternative port locations is the cost of
the necessary land connections. Other associated issues con-
cern the cost of river improvements on the Paraguay River
(Project 200) and the possible limitation imposed on barge
train configurations by a Brazilian bridge over the Paraguay
River at Puerto Esperanza, between Corumba and Puerto Busch.
                                               ;
     Many projects were identified on the Mamore River system
between Puerto Villarroel and Guayaramerfn. One project deals
with the river cleaning proposals, a scheme already started
with help from the Belgian government (Project 214). Other pro-
jects concern port improvements at Puerto Villarroel (Project
210), Trinidad (project 211) and Guayaramer!n (project 212),
and also on the Rfo Grande at the terminus of the rail line now
under construction (Project 215). At Trinidad, a scheme for a
canal linking the Mamore to the center of Trinidad for all-
year use was the subject of another evaluation (Project 209).

     North of Guayaramer1n, several ambitious projects were
identified to clear obstructions in the river between Villa
Bella and Guayaramerfn (project 206), between Villa Bella and
Riberalta at Cachuela Esperanza (Project 207), and between
Villa Bella and Porto Velho in Brazil (Project 208).

     Finally, two ambitious projects were identified in the
south to permit navigation from just south of Bermejo to the
Paraguay River. One involves the dredging of the Bermejo
River (Project 205), the other the possible construction of
a canal to bypass the Bermejo River (Project 205A). Both
projects would be almost entirely within Argentina and would
be linked to other projects to develop that reqion of Argen-
tina. Thus, they would not be under the' control of Bolivia
but could be exploited by Bolivia if Argentina decides to go
ahead with them.

     Miscellaneous Candidate Projects - The rema~n~ng candi-
date projects are shown in Figure 10-6 and are listed in
Table 10-4.

     Roll-on/roll-off ferry facilities were considered at
Guaqui on Lake Titicaca (Project 300). Associated with this
is a wagon bogie change plant for conversion between narrow
and standard gauge (Project 301). An alternative wagon bogie
change plant project was considered for Desaquadero (Project
302) for the proposed junction of the Bolivian and Peruvian
rail systems.

     Two petroleum product pipeline projects were identified,
one from Villamontes to Tarija (Project 400) and the other
from Santa Cruz to Trinidad (project 402). All other major
cities already have product pipeline connections.     -


                        -177-
                                                                      ''I




                           Table 10-4
               MISCELLANEOUS CANDIDATE PROJECTS


                       PROJECT                       ESTH1ATED COST
                                                      (millions of
                                                       1977 pesos)
300   Rail roll-on/roll-off facilities at Guaqui           14

301   Change of wagon bogie plant at Guaqui                84

302   Change of wagon bogie plant at Desaquadero           84

400   Product pipeline:   Villamontes to Tarija           510

402   Product pipeline:   Santa Cruz to Trinidad          516

800   Hovercraft Ferry at Puerto Banegas                   80   (1)

801   Motorized pontoon Ferry at Puerto Banegas             3   (1)   ..
802   Mineral Conveyor Belt:     Mutun to Quijarro        500

                                                                      .
(1)   For two craft.                                                  •
                                                                      .
                                                                      •
                                                                      •
                                                                      ..
                                                                      III



                                                                      •
                                                                      •
                                                                      ..
                                                                      III



                                 -178-                                ..
                                                                      •
                                                                      III
                                                                      •
                                                                                        NOTE : NUMBERS REFER TO IOENTIFICATION IN
                                                                                        -            TABLE  10- 4




                                                                                            I
                                                                                                    r'




          o

                                                                                                                             :'
                                                                                                                  ~'------" 1i
           n
           III                                                                                                             "'--        RIIO

                                                                                                              _ _ _ --~ OUTU          8 2
            ~
                                                                                                ,,..-----
                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                  ,
             2.
              o
                 1)                                                                                                       c
                                                                                                                      \
                  ~


                                 ~           ,/
                                     -=;/
                               /:.     til


                      o
                                                                     .\   1\ G   E .\   T   I X          .\




                                                  MISCELLANEOUS CANDIDATE PROJECTS
rJ)fi"ult [lmil/' and Jliw;ciale()                                                                                        FIGURE 10-6
     A hovercraft ferry (project 800) was considered for the
crossing of the Rio Grande at Puerto Banegas east of Santa Cruz.
Two craft would be required at an estimated cost of $b40 million
each. As an alternative, a motorized pontoon was evaluated at
a cost of $b3 million for two craft.
     A mineral conveyor belt was considered linking Mutun with
Quijarro (project 802) at an estimated cost of $bSOO million.
The Computer Transport Networks
      Three transport networks were defined which were the basis
of the computer transport model forecasts of person and freight
movements used in the evaluation of candidate projects. They
were:
      (i)   1989 Committed Network
     (ii)   1989 Test Network
    (iii)   1999 Test Network.
     In addition to these networks, a 1989 Recommended Network
was defined containing all projects recommended by the Study
(see Chapter 20). This was used to establish the final traffic
estimates on each link and was defined, built and tested after
the main evaluations were completed. It is not discussed fur-
ther in this section.

       Although all the candidate projects discussed in this
chapter were the subjects of evaluations, not all projects
were included in the transport networks defined for the
computer model tests. For those projects which were included,
a decision had to be made about the level of design tested,
and this was particularly important for road projects.
       Projects were selected for each computer network after
a preliminary screening, which is reported in Working Paper
53. ~his was a necessary process to eliminate projects whose
viability was considered very unlikely by the year of the
computer network, and whose inclusion would be likely to
complicate the evaluation of remaining projects. Similarly,
design levels of projects were set to represent a feasible
network by the year in question, and this was largely decided
by considering likely budget availability and probable priori-
ties. The screening process was not too rigorous, since it was
not meant as a substitute for the full-scale modelling and
evaluation process. Sufficient projects were included to
allow considerable scope in the selection of alternative plans
based on the results of the evaluation. Each network is
briefly described below.



                            -179-
                                                                  11




                                                                  ..
     1989 Committed Network - This network contains the exis-
ting links of the transport system, including new links opened
since the base year 1977, together with those projects listed
earlier as completely committed.
                                                                  ••
     1989 Test Network - This network contains all the candi-
date projects for testing using the computer model. The road
candidate projects involving construction on a new alignment
which were included in the 1989 Test Network are illustrated
                                                                  '.
in Figure 10-7. In addition, it was assumed that all unpaved
roads would be regravelled to provide a better surface. Most
                                                                  .
of the development road candidate projects in northern La Paz,
Pando, Beni and Santa Cruz departments were included, even
though it was clear that only a small proportion would prove      ..
to be feasible. They were included because it was thought that
the computer test would show up any significant network advan-
tages of each route, which could be used to supplement the more   •
important producer surplus analysis. At the same time, volumes
forecast on these routes were not expected to be large and so
would not distort the forecasts on the routes in the central,
western and southern parts of the country. This assumption
proved to be correct.
       Apart from the development roads, the 1989,Test Network
includes p~ving of the routes f~om Oruro to Potos~, Sucre
(via Potos~), Tarija and Villazon, from Santa Cruz to Yacuiba
(apart from one section), and some roads near La Paz including
                                                                  ..
the routes to Desaguadero, Achacachi and Bella Vista. Some
new gravel roads were included east of La Paz, south of Cocha-
bamba and east of Tarija.
        Non-road projects included in the 1989 Test Network are
also shown in Figure 10-7. Both the rail interconnections from
Aiquile to Santa Cruz via Mataral and from Sucre to Mataral
                                                                  ..
were included, but the Tarabuco-Cuevo line and the inter-
connection via Tarija were omitted. Also omitted was the
rail line from La Paz to Rurrenabaque which preliminary analy-
sis showed to be completely unfeasible by 1989. Both the
petroleum product pipelines were included.                        ..
    River projects, apart from the projects ~o cl~ar rock
obstructions south of Villa Bella, were not 1ncluaed,
although they \V'ere later evaluated on the basis of the model
forecasts. Air projects were considered separately in the air
                                                                  ..
                                                                  •
model (see Chapter 14).
                                                                  ..
                                                                  •
       The 1999 Test Network - It was considered that as far
as non-road projects were concerned, sufficient projects had
been included in the 1989 Test Network to fill an investment
                                                                  ..
                                                                  •
                                                                  •
                           -180-
                                                                  •
                                                                  •
                                                     ... ...
                                                      '
                                                                ~
                                                               .}
                                                                                                        LEGEND
                                                                                               _     PAVING PROJECT
         50            0
                       ,                                                                       _ _ _ NEW GRAVEL ROAD
          I
                                                                                               ....... RAIL LINE
                                                                                               _ •• _ PRODUCT PIPELINE
                                                                                               ••••••• RIVER PROJECT

                        ."
                         ttl
                           "1)
                            (",

                                !:xl
                                 'C"
                                  ....
                                   ("'l

                                       ...
                                         d                                                          .
                                                                                                   ~

              ()




               )
                                                                                       r-----·'
               Z
                   Q


                   11
                   )                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                         ~
                    ()                                                                             \)
                                                                                               ~

                                                                                                                               ~F
                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                          \)
                                                                                                                     ()        '\
                                                                                                                 ~
                           ()                                                                                ~
                                                                                                        ~

                           Q

                                                                    .\ R G E N T I : ' l l A




                                             THE 1989 TEST NETWORK:
                                               CANDIDATE PROJECTS
O)fe,/Iu. 9'mill. and A66ociale6                                                                                          FIGURE 10-7
program for at least the next twenty years, when taken together
with other investment possibilities for these modes. Investment
possibilities beyond this were evaluated but no more non-road
projects were included in the 1999 Test Network.
       All road candidate projects involving new construction
in places where there are no roads, or only primitive tracks,
were included in the 1989 Test Network, although sometimes at
fairly low levels of design. Hence, projects for inclusion
in the 1999 Test Network all concerned upgrading of either the
alignment or the surface of roads already in the 1989 Test Net-
work.
       The selection of projects for the 1999 Test Network was
made after further project screening. The improvements included
are shown in Figure 10-8. Essentially, the paving projects
represent the completion of the trunk road system in the central
part of the country, including the links to Trinidad.




                          -181-
                                    1
                                        ~
                                                                                       • • z.. ... ..;..



                                                                                                                         _     RECONSTRUCTION AND PAVING
        50            0
                      ,                 00
                                        1    2ooKm .                                                                     _ _ _ PAVING ONLY
        I                                       I




                       ,0
                        ~
                                                                   v
                          ~                                    y                                                         (",
                           c                              :-                                                                   -/
                               ~             ~- ~'
                                                  /
                               r'             r
                                n
                                   .                  j
                                                      ,
                                    d
                                    ~

                                                  /

         o
            ()


            11\

             )

             Z
                 o
                  "U                                                                                                                                                  C
                  )                                                I
                                                                                                                                                             \
                                                                   I                                                                                    \J
                                                                                                                                                    ~
                   ()

                                                                       \L-<
                                                                       \


                                                                                                                     \ .~
                                                                                                                               y,
                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                ~

                                                                                                                                                    - ~
                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                             \J

                                                                                                                                                                      \J   ~f
                                                                                   ?                                                                              0

                          ()
                                                                               i
                                                                               /
                                                                                                                       ""'--   -\                   ~
                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                             ~


                                                                           ;                                                        '--.." 'l
                          o                                                                                                              "
                                                                                                           ..\RG EX·TI:\r..\




                                                                           THE 1999 TEST NETWORK:
                                                                            ADDITIONS TO THE 1989
                                                                                TEST NETWORK
                          eo
%tlut [lmil/' and VIIo4«ial                                                                                                                                           FIGURE 10- 8
               TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS


$b           Bolivian Pesos-   SUS 1.00 = $b 25.00 (1981)
                               SUS 1.00 = $b 20.00 (1977)
ADT          Average Daily Traffic
AADAA        Customs Administration
AASANA       National Airport Administration
ADEPTA       Association of Private Air Transport Firms
COMIBOL      National Mining Company
COMIXTA      Bolivian-Argentinian Joint Commission
CNT          National Transport Center
CEPAL        Economic Commission for Latin America
CODETAR      Taiij~ Department Development Corporation
COFADENA     National Development Corporation of the Armed Forces
CORDEBENI    Beni Department Development Corporation
CORDECO      Cochabarnba Department Development Corporation
CORDECH      Chuquisaca Department Development Corporation
CORDECRUZ    Santa Cruz Department Development Corporation
CORDEOR      Oruro Department Development Corporation
CORDEPANDO   Pando Department Development Corporation
CORDEPAZ     La Paz Department Development Corporation
CORDEPO      Potosi Department Development Corporation
DGCP         General Directorate of Port Captaincies
DGMM         General Directorate of Merchant Marine
DGTA         General Directorate of Road Transport
DGTTA        General Directorate of Air Transport and Aerial Works
DPC          Directorate of Planning and Coordination
ENFE         National Railroad Company
FNB          Bolivian Navy
GNP          Gross National Product
GEOBOL       Bolivian Geological Service
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
HDM          Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                (The World Bank)
IBTA         Bolivian Institute of Agricultural Technology
IDB          Interamerican Development Bank
INE          National Statistics Institute
INALCO       National Cooperatives Institute
INTAL        Institute of Latin American Integration
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
LAB          Lloyd Aereo Boliviano
LAC          Lineas Aereas Canedo
LAI          Linea Aerea Imperial
LPG          Liquid Petroleum Gas
LINABOL      Bolivian Shipping Line
MTCCA        Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil
               Aeronautics
NPV          Net Present Value
NTS          National Transport Study
SHN          Hydrographic Service of the Navy
SN           Structural Number (Used in Road Pavement Design)
SN           Modified Structural Number
SNC          National Road Service
SNT          National Transit Service
TAM          Transportes Aereos Militares
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
YPFB         National Hydrocarbons Company
