Document of
The World Bakik
Report No. 17794-ET
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 60.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
May 8, 1998
Agriculture 2
Africa Region



Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Birr
US$1.00 = Ethiopia Birr 6.737 (August 1997)
Fiscal Year July 8 - July 7
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARF          -             Agricultural Research Fund
ARTP         -             Agricultural Research and Training Project
AUA          -             Alemaya University of Agriculture
CAS          -             Country Assistance Strategy
DG           -             Director General
EARB         -             Ethiopian Agricultural Research Board
EARO         -             Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization
EARS         -             Ethiopian Agricultural Research System
FRC          -             Federal Research Center
GDP          -             Gross Domestic Product
GOE          -             Government of Ethiopia
HPA          -             High Potential Areas
HRD          -             Human Resource Development
ICR          -             Implementation Completion Report
IDA          -             International Development Agency
IFAD         -             International Fund for Agricultural Development
LPA          -             Low-Potential Area
MEDAC        -             Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation
MIS          -             Management Information System
MOA          -             Ministry of Agriculture
MTR          -             Mid-Term Review
M&E          -             Monitoring & Evaluation
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
NSSL         -             National Soils Service Laboratory
OED          -             Operations Evaluation Department
PER          -             Public Expenditure Review
PIM          -             Project Implementation Manual
RAB          -             Regional Agricultural Bureau
RC           -             Research Centers and Institutions (federal and regional)
RRC          -             Regional Research Center
SOE          -             Statement of Expenditure
TA           -             Technical Assistance
TOR                        Terms of Reference
Vice President                       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director                   JOey Astra Meesook
Sector                            : Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader                    Amar Jt S. Sodhi



ETHIOPIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ................1
Block 1: Project Description                                 .2
1. Project development objectives                       .2
2. Project components                              .2
3. Benefits and target population                       .3
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements               .4
Block 2: Project Rationale                                  .6
5. CAS objective [s] supported by the project                .6
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                  .6
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and sirategic choices  .8
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection       .9
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   . 9
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design          ..9
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership    .       .10
12. Value added of Bank Support         ..11
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments .11
13. Economic Assessment .11
14. Financial Assessment .11
15. Technical Assessment .12
16. Institutional Assessment .12
17. Social Assessment .13
18. Environmental Assessment .13
19. Participatory Approach .14
20. Sustainability .14
21. Critical Risks .15
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .15
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions .15
23. Effectiveness Conditions .15
24. Other .16
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies .17
Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary .18
Annex 1-A:  Letter of Sectoral Policy .23
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description .31
Annex 2-A:    Organogram of Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO) .34
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs .35



Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 4:         Financial and Economic Analysis ............................... 37
Annex 5:         Financial Summary ...............................                                        40
Annex 6:         Procurement and Disbursement ...............................                             41
Annex 7:         Project Processing Budget and Schedule ............................... 45
Annex 8:         Documents in the Project File ............................... 46
Annex 9:         Status of Bank Group Operations in Ethiopia ............................... 47
Annex 10:        Ethiopia at a Glance ...............................                                     48
Map



Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Africa Regional Office
Country Department
Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia
Agricultural Research and Training Project
Date: May 8,1998                                                       ( ]  Draft     [X] Final
Task Manager: Amar Jit S. Sodhi                      Country Manager: Oey Astra Meesook
Project ID: ET-PE 733  | Sector: Agriculture                  POC: PA 65%; EN 25%; WD 10%
Lending Instrument: SIL                              PTI:      [X] Yes            [] No
Project Financing Data                [   Loan    [X] Credit    [] Guarantee   []  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):60.0
Proposed Terms:                        []   Multicurrency      []  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10 years    []   Standard Variable  [X] Fixed            [ ]  | LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
ing plan (USm)-
Source                                                    Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                 12.4                0.0              12.4
Cofinanciers                                                4.4               13.8              18.2
IDA                                                        14.5               45.5              60.0
Total                                                      31.3               59.3              90.6
orrower: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO)
1999       2000       2001        2002   2003   2004   2005
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual  1.6        12.5       20.0        14.2    7.8    3.5    0.4
Cumulative   1.6      14.1        34.1        48.3    56.1   59.6   60.0
Expected effectiveness date: September, 30, 1998                     Closing date: March 31, 2005



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         2
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for 'key performance indicators):
The development objective of the project is to support sustained generation and enhancement of ecologically
sound technology for crop and livestock production systems and natural resource management in Ethiopia. Towards this
end, the project will assist in strengthening and improving the Ethiopian agricultural research system (EARS), including
its infrastructure and human resource capacity, and making the system more responsive to farmers' needs and priorities.
More specifically, the Project would assist in (i) making the newly created apex national organization for research, viz.
the Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO) fully functional with appropriate working procedures and
systems; (ii) building participatoiy approaches in a decentralized agricultural research system; (iii) establishing a
management informnation system (MIS) and networking of infornation systems; (iv) fostering effective linkages between
research, extension and farmers on the one hand, and between the research centers, domestically and intemationally, on
the other hand; (v) rehabilitating and strengthening the existing research infrastructure and extending it to hitherto
uncovered and harsh agro-ecological areas characterized by extreme poverty; (vi) building human resource capacity for
agricultural research through technical assistance and training; and (vii) strengthening the Alemaya University of
Agriculture (AUA).
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                               Category                 Cost Incl.         % of Total
Contingencies (US$M)
Agricultural Research Management                    Project Management (PM);            15.8               17.4
Institution Building (INS);
(i) Make EARO functional with adequate staff and    Physical
budget, and by establishing appropriate procedures and
systems for better direction and coordination of research
effort; (ii) develop and introduce a decentralized system
for prioritization of agricultural research, in consultation
with stakeholders and male and female beneficiaries, and
according to acceptable economic criteria; (iii) improve
the effectiveness of research by strengthening research-
extension-farmer linkages; (iv) improve the exchange of
research information by strengthening the agricultural
research data base, information and documentation
system; (v) strengthen links with international research
organizations; (vi) ensure timely and adequate budgetary
support to approved programs; (vii) introduce and
maintain an incentive structure for research staff; (viii)
address gender issues; (ix) provide EARO with budget
for consultant support and management training; (x)
improve EARO infrastructure and equipment and (xi)
establish and operate an agricultural research fund (ARF).
Strengthening of the Agricultural Research System   INS, Physical                      47.1                52.0
(i) Strengthen the network of existing research centers
through rehabilitation, provision of equipment, including
biotechnology research, and improving social facilities;
(ii) provide new research facilities and associated
infrastructure in less favorable and previously unserved
environments; and (iii) provide incremental operating and
maintenance costs at research centers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      3
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Human Resource Development (HRD)                  INS, PM, physical                 27.7                30.6
Facilitate the availability of higher quality and
increased number of research personnel, both male and
female, in needed disciplines, through (i) strengthening
of AUA's teaching facilities and associated
infrastructure, improving the skills of academic staff and
recruiting international academics to substitute for local
teaching staff on training abroad; and (ii) improving
skills of research staff through formal long-term
overseas training (Ph.Ds and M.Scs), and providing
local training (M.Scs) and other specialized training
programs.
Total                                                 90.6                100
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct benefits of the project would include:
*  more efficient agricultural research system with institutions capable of cost effectively addressing the
priority problems of farmers in the major ecologies of the country;
*  sustained production of improved and client responsive technology;
*  improved capacity for higher agricultural education and training of scientific personnel;
*  better trained and motivated cadre of agricultural researchers including better opportunities for women;
and
*   improved research-extension-farmer linkages and a more effective transfer of technologies.
These benefits are expected to accelerate generation of environmentally sound agricultural technologies for
sustainable intensification of crop and livestock production systems and natural resource management. This would
provide stability and resilience to the agricultural sector to cope with drought and famine situations, thereby increasing
national and household food security, and raising farmers incomes. At full maturity the incremental annual production
would amount to about 360 thousand tons of cereals. Total incremental cereal production would, by Year 20, from
project effectiveness, add up to some 2.5 million tons.
The principal beneficiary population would be the male and female small farmers, mostly with holdings of less
than two hectares each; these peasants constitute an overwhelming majority (around 90 percent) of the farming
population. The project, therefore, qualifies to be included in the program of targeted interventions.
Women farmworkers would also benefit from the generation of improved post-harvest technology and other
technologies specifically aimed at improving efficiency and reducing drudgery in those farm operations which are
handled by women. Also, the project would seek to raise the participation of women in the overall agricultural research
effort through higher recruitment of women scientists and support staff in the system. Similarly, female students would
get their fair share of admission to various agriculture related courses under the New Education Policy (1997).
Furthermore, participation of women in the research and extension committees supported by the project, would also
give them an opportunity to influence the formulation and prioritization of research programs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          4
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation Period: Six years.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM): Earlier drafts submitted by the Borrower were reviewed and
commented upon by IDA. Now, a comprehensive PIM elaborating on the specific actions, including those for
implementing human resource development programs, and reverifying consistency with the revised procurement,
technical assistance and training schedules, is being prepared by EARO. Finalization of PIM, acceptable to IDA, and
its adoption by the Ethiopia Agricultural Research Board (EARB) is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Executing agencies: The newly created EARO would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project and reporting to IDA and the Government. However, the responsibility for actual implementation of various
components and sub-components would rest with three agencies, viz. (i) EARO; (ii) research centers, including
specialized institutes (RCs); and (iii) AUA. The RCs and AUA would receive funds from and be accountable to
EARO in the implementation of project activities. To this effect, EARO would sign a memorandum of understanding
(MOU) with Regional Governments/Regional Research centers (RRCs) and AUA. EARO would also sign an MOU
with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with regard to research-extension-farmer linkages. These MOUs would be
signed before credit effectiveness.
(i) EARO: The National Parliament approved (Proclamation No. 79/1997 dated June 5, 1997) the
establishment of EARO as an autonomous national level apex organization to build up research capacity consistent with
the development needs of the country, and establish a system that will make agricultural research efficient and effective.
It will also be the focal point for channeling all donor assistance for agricultural research, and developing and
maintaining links with international and regional agricultural research centers. The EARO mandate requires that it
should facilitate mutual support between agricultural education, research and extension, and participate in the
development and upgrading of human resources. The EARO will also be responsible for providing technical leadership
and direction in research program formulation, prioritization as well as budgetary support to a country-wide network of
federal (FRCs) and regional (RRCs) research centers, AUA and other higher learning institutions. EARO will be
accountable to the Prime Minister. Detailed staffing plans, with job descriptions for key positions, have been prepared.
The Director General (DG) of EARO has been appointed and has participated in Credit negotiations. Adequate office
space has been allocated and some office staff are already in place. Even though EARO is structured as a lean
organization, it will build capacity to address the coordination and management aspects of agricultural research, as well
as the economic and social (including gender) issues. It would rely, in appropriate cases, on consultant services for
execution of discrete tasks, particularly where short term expert assistance is required.
More specifically, the EARO will: (a) define procedures for stakeholder consultation and collaboration; (b)
beginning in Project Year 2, annually prepare a five year research action plan (a rolling plan), giving firm action
program for one year and indicative plan for the remaining four years; (c) annually approve the specific research
program of each RC as well as for contract research in accordance with priorities and available fiscal and human
resources, strong research-extension-farmer linkages at the RC level; (d) ensure adequate linkages between various
RCs and external research entities of excellence; (e) establish an efficient information and documentation system using
telecommunications and computing facilities for the EARS and cooperating institutions like AUA; (f) strengthen
arrangements for the transfer of on-the-shelf and newly generated technology to the farmers, inter alia, by fostering
strong research-extension farmer linkages at the RC level; (g) encourage, wherever possible, greater participation of
women in research and provide for gender sensitivity in the development and targeting of research programs; (h)
finalize various operational, financial, accounting and budget manuals for EARO/FRC/ RRC/AUA, and, through
training and workshops, ensure adherence of each implementing agency to the prescribed procedures; (i) hold an annual
technical review of the progress and problems of each research programs/RC in the outgoing year and the proposed
work program and budget for the next year, and share its findings with a wide community of stakeholders including



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          5
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
extensionsits, donors and NGOs and solicit their views through a national workshop on agricultural research; and (j)
three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, prepare an annual human resource development plan, based on
the approved five year rolling research action plan and the criteria of "minimum critical mass" needed to implement the
research action plan. This plan will be approved annually by EARB and cleared with IDA prior to implementation.
EARO will also prepare by December 31, 1998, an agricultural research strategy paper and share it with IDA and other
donors. It will also build capacity within EARO, to make economic evaluation of various research proposals, and to
review and advise on gender related issues. Furthermore, EARO will delegate powers for making operational
expenditures to respective RCs, which will be provided with budget allocations at the beginning of each fiscal year.
(ii) FRCs and RRCs: Each research center would be responsible for: (a) stakeholder and beneficiary
consultation and collaboration; (b) defining the research agenda and priorities in a participatory manner, based on
farming systems approach; (c) annually preparing a detailed action plan, including staff and budget required for each
research activity and upon approval, implementing it; (d) ensuring close linkages with extension agencies; (e) ensuring
timely and efficient implementation of ARTP activities; (f) establishing and maintaining separate accounts related to
ARTP activities; and (g) submitting quarterly reports and returns to EARO to help in project monitoring, supervision
and evaluation.
(iii) A UA: AUA, as the principal provider of scientific human resources for EARS, would be the key
implementing agency for the Human Resource Development (HRD) Plan, as well as the strengthening of the
infrastructure facilities at AUA. It will also have a procurement cell of trained staff to handle all procurement cases of
AUA under ARTP; and will send quarterly implementation progress reports to EARO. In addition, it will engage in
agricultural research, in contract with EARO, or/and on its own to support practical teaching and guidance to university
students in various agricultural disciplines. Prior to negotiations, AUA has submitted an implementation plan for PY- I
for ARTP funded activities, along with planned improvements in the overall admissions and teaching arrangements.
Project coordination: While implementation and monitoring of various project components will be the
responsibility of respective line departments within EARO, the overall coordination of ARTP will be the responsibility
of the Director General. In the performance of this task, he would be assisted by an ARTP Coordination Office,
reporting directly to him. This Department will be responsible to ensure that, consistent with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement with IDA, all line departments take timely and coordinated action, and channel all
reports to and correspondence with IDA through the ARTP Coordination Office. Project coordination will be ensured
at the federal level with PM's office and concerned ministries, through the DG\EARO. However, at the research center
level client participation in program review and planning will be ensured by establishing close linkages with extension
agencies, and other stakeholders. Appropriate committees would be set up to ensure this coordination. To strengthen
the inter-institutional coordination and cooperation, MOA, AUA and selected representatives of the regional
governments in rotation will be nominated on the EARB; this would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project oversight (policy guidance): It will be the responsibility of the EARB, established under Proclamation
No. 79/1997 dated June 5, 1997. As required in the Proclamation, EARB will guide, direct and supervise the EARO
and, through it, be responsible for approving annual, medium and long term research strategies and programs, and
ensuring effective coordination among all research entities and with other government agencies. The EARB has already
been nominated by the Government and is functioning.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: EARO would be responsible for project financial
management, reporting, and auditing, following systems and procedures acceptable to IDA. Decentralized
administration and management of research will be complemented with decentralized financial management controls.
Towards this end, it has prepared a financial, accounting and budget manual for guidance of EARO, FRCs, RRCs and
AUA staff. IDA has suggested further improvements in the manual. Finalization of this manual will be a condition of
credit effectiveness. Accounting records will be kept for all project related expenditures and financing, following



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          6
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
internationally accepted accounting principles. Project accounts will be audited annually, following international
auditing standards, by Audit Services Corporation or by other independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audits will
include the Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditure which have been used as the basis for preparing and
submitting withdrawal applications to IDA.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) arrangements: The Project M&E will be the shared responsibility of
EARO/AUA/RABs/RCs at their respective levels. Relevant data collection, validation, analysis, and dissemination will
be the responsibility of the EARO. M&E will be guided by: (a) the Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy;
(b) Project Design Summary with monitorable indicators (Annex I); and (c) the Implementation Plan in the Project
Implementation Manual. M&E will be conducted through: (i) monthly progress review meetings on ARTP chaired by
the Director General, EARO (the meetings will be open to staff of IDA); (ii) IDA supervision missions; (iii) mid-termn
review (MTR) of project implementation jointly with IDA no later than 36 months after effectiveness; (iv) base line and
subsequent annual beneficiary surveys to monitor trends in adoption rates; and (v) assessments by peer reviewers, and
at least twice during the life of the Project by external reviewers, as well as at MTR and at other implementation
milestones as shown in the implementation plan. The primary objective of M & E would be to ensure research
relevance, scientific rigor and research quality. Twice each year (by July 31 and January 31), EARO will transmit to
IDA progress reports on project implementation and outcomes, using the format agreed at the Project Launch
Workshop. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after Credit closing;
EARO will contribute to the ICR by providing its own evaluation of the Project and the operational plan for the period
commencing with the closure of ARTP.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objectivels] supported by the project:
Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: Report No. 1 7009-ET dated August 19, 1997; discussed
at the Board meeting on September 9, 1997.
Ethiopia's major development objective is sustainedpoverty reduction. The Bank's assistance strategy focuses
on four clusters of activities viz. (i) policy and capacity; (ii) infrastructure; (iii) sources of growth; and (iv) poverty and
human development. ARTP belongs to the third cluster "Sources of Growth", which focuses on the leading growth
sectors, emphasizing those that have the potential to make a major contribution to both economic growth and poverty
reduction following a pattern of growth that is broad-based and "pro-poor". In this cluster, agricultural research and
training has been identified as an important area for IDA support, in addition to the ongoing Seeds and Fertilizer
Projects (both FY-95). The objective is to ensure a steady flow of new technologies to sustain the ongoing efforts to
enhance agricultural productivity and household food security, as well as improve the management of natural resources
over the medium to longer term. In order to achieve this, the project would help in the quicker and more efficient
transfer of available technologies; equally importantly, the project would make the technology generation process more
participatory, demand driven and relevant to the smallholder needs. It would rehabilitate and upgrade the research
infrastructure and extend the research coverage to those agro-ecological zones, which are mostly drought-prone, and
are inhabited by relatively poor communities. The project is thus expected to make a significant contribution in the
realization of primary CAS objective of sustained poverty reduction, by facilitating sustainable intensification of
agricultural production.
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Macro-economic issues: At present, there are no important macro-economic issues that must be addressed to
ensure success of the proposed project. Ethiopia has made considerable progress during the period of political transi-
tion from 1991 to 1995 as well as after the establishment of an elected government. This includes continual exchange
rate adjustments after a major devaluation in October 1992, decontrol of prices, relaxation of restrictions on the private



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 7
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
sector, deregulation of labor market and macro-economic stabilization with low annual inflation rates. The central
element of macro-economic stabilization has been fiscal adjustment and a notable shift in public expenditures from
defense to social sectors and infrastructure. The country also satisfactorily implemented a structural adjustment pro-
gram under SAC (Cr.2526-ET) from 1994 to 1996. Annual Policy Framework Paper reviews and/or public expenditure
review (PER) are the Bank's major instruments of a continuing policy dialogue with the Government. The fourth PER-
1997 provided a critical input into the Bank's recent poverty-focused country assistance strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia.
Agriculture Sector Issues: [For Agricultural Research Sector issues, see next paragraph.] There are no major
policy issues in the agriculture sector that have a significant bearing on the success of the proposed ARTP. The policy
framework, with respect to overall agricultural development is in place: the Government has already formulated an
agricultural development strategy and national policies for the development of the fertilizer and seed sectors as well as
agricultural research. The agriculture sector is being rapidly liberalized. Movement controls on food grains have been
lifted, output prices have been decontrolled, seed subsidies have been removed, fertilizer importation and domestic
marketing has been thrown open to all and private sector share in importation and domestic marketing of fertilizers is
steadily going up, and finally, fertilizer retail price controls and subsidies were removed in early 1997. The
Government has worked with IDA and other donors and finalized its food security policy, and analytical work for a
study on the sources of growth in the agricultural sector has been completed. However, the sector faces some serious
challenges which are being addressed by the Government. These include: (a) declining soil fertility due to
overgrazing, reduced fallow and rapid deforestation; (b) weak research-extension linkages; (c) poor rural
infrastructure, particularly of rural roads; and (d) an undeveloped rural financial sector. The soil fertility issue is being
partly addressed through IDA funded National Fertilizer Sector Project; the extension support is being strengthened by
the Government, and its effectiveness is being increased. In this context, the Government fully supported the initiative
launched under Sasakawa Global 2000, a non-governmental organization, four years ago by substantially increasing the
number of half-hectare demonstration plots through its expanded agricultural extension system; it organized about
350,000 half hectare demonstrations in 1996, and 600,000 in 1997. These demonstrations combined with better input
supplies (fertilizer and seed projects funded by IDA) and very good weather have brought unprecedented increases in
foodgrain production (over 11 million tons in 1996 against an average of 7 million in the early nineties, and food
imports have nearly stopped. The issue of providing the rural population with access to markets is being addressed
through the recently approved Roads Sector Project; and the Bank is engaged in a study of the financial sector with
active assistance from Government.
Agricultural Research Sector Issues: Agricultural research is guided by (a) National Science and Technology
Policy (NSTP) (December, 1993), which has specific sections on agriculture and natural resources development and
environmental protection; and (b) an Agricultural Research Policy which has also been prepared consistent with NSTP.
The Government has been working to alleviate several constraints which have afflicted the agricultural research system
and is hindering a steady and sustained flow of environmentally sound agricultural technology to the farmers. These
constraints included institutional fragmentation and absence of a national legal entity to guide and coordinate a
balanced decentralized regional research effort. Partly as a consequence of this lacuna, and partly for other reasons,
there is duplication and lack of overall coordination of research programs and priorities between federal, regional and
university research entities; there are gaps in the research program coverage (some less favorable environments and
resource poor farming systems have not been covered), and the approach to research, in the absence of participatory
mechanisms, is top down. Further, inadequate attention has been paid to livestock, natural resource management
research and research-extension linkages. In addition, there are serious deficiencies in the availability of appropriate
and trained scientific personnel; the ratio of female scientific staff to the total is also very low. Also, there is little
capacity for socio-economic analysis, which should underpin the research prioritization process. Finally, AUA has high
attrition rates among the staff sent abroad for higher education and training, and there is a progressive decline in the
number of post graduates in agricultural disciplines, who graduate from AUA every year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 8
Ethiopia- Agricultural Research & Training Project
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the issues on agricultural research, education and training identified above. It seeks to
address the issue of institutional fragmentation, duplication and lack of overall coordination of the research effort by
diverse entities in the country through the newly created autonomous apex organization, viz. the EARO. EARO will
pilot new management approaches, foster regional, participatory and relevant research for sustainable intensification of
crop and livestock production systems. It would also strengthen links with the international agricultural research
entities of excellence and seek to benefit from frequent exchange of information and ideas within the country and
internationally. Further, EARO will also arrange to conduct feasibility studies and, with EARB and IDA approval, take
steps to extend the research infrastructure to less favorable environments and resource-poor farming systems by
establishing up to six new centers. The project would strongly support research planning and prioritization methods at
the research center level which actively involve the stakeholders, including the extension service and the beneficiary
farmers. The project would build an atmosphere of collaboration among the staff of various levels and skills in the
research and extension service by establishing research-extension advisory councils and departments at the RC level,
and putting in place the necessary interactive systems. In this context, the project would finance M.Sc. extension
courses, provide extension materials in local languages and appropriately equip existing and new centers to disseminate
bottoms-up, user-driven technology. The Project would also involve extension staff in diagnosing farmers' problems
which should be addressed at the research center level through inter-alia establishing farmers' research groups.
Moreover, the project will address the issue of integrating livestock and natural resource management research in the
overall research system and making farming systems research methodology its main thrust. The priority setting
mechanisms, based on evolving economic analysis methodologies and peer review, should help determine the
appropriate mix of various programs. Further, the gender issue will be addressed while determining the type of
technology required to address the constraints faced by women farmers and farm workers, as well as in the recruitment
and training of scientific personnel. Finally, the project will support human resource development programs in AUA as
well as the EARS and assist in creating the much needed work environment and a system of incentives which would
help reduce the attrition rates in AUA and the agricultural research system. The project would also complement the
ongoing National Fertilizer Sector Project as well as the Seed Systems Development Project through the advancement
of seed and fertilizer use technology -- the two critical inputs for the practice of yield-enhancing technology.
The feasibility of making a strategic choice to transfer a part of the research effort to the private sector, thereby
alleviating the fiscal burden on the federal and regional governments, was explored and rejected because (a) at present,
there are no institutions or infrastructure facilities in the private sector to undertake agricultural research; (b) the
estimated six million smallholders, with average size of holdings of about one hectare each, producing 96 percent of the
agricultural output are too resource poor to pay for research in the next few years. This issue has also been debated by
OED on the basis of a review of the agricultural research programs in over 40 countries. OED's conclusion (Report No.
15828 dated June 26, 1996), is that there is a strong " public-good" rationale for public investment in agricultural
research. Nevertheless, the project will assist in ensuring that the regulatory environment is conducive for private-
sector research and technology acquisition (in accordance with the Government's Science and Technology Policy
Directive). It would also support the establishment of an Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) by the Borrower in order
to promote complementary and flexible mechanisms for funding agricultural research from new and more diverse
sources, including the private sector, donors, and potential beneficiary public and private enterprises. The main
objectives of the ARF would be to: (a) improve the adequacy and dependability of funds for priority research programs
which impact on the national objectives of food security, poverty alleviation and environmental conservation as well as
to meet the specific needs of the agricultural and industrial enterprises and farmers; and (b) create an environment for
innovative and competitive research in the public and the private sectors, universities and international research entities.
EARO will develop a scheme with proposals for an independent managing committee and rules for financing and
executing agricultural research and other promotional activities under ARF, clear it with IDA, and contribute at least a
sum of $100,000 to activate the scheme. The ARF would be established by June 30, 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     9
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Two alternatives were considered and rejected. The feasibility of a stand alone research project, without the
training component which includes higher agricultural education, was considered and rejected because an
overwhelming constraint in the Ethiopian agricultural research system is shortage of researchers and technicians and the
problems of attrition of scientific staff. It was realized that any research project which does not squarely address this
critical constraint will have slim chances of success. Another alternative was to exclude funding of research programs
on export commodities like coffee and let the research resources for such crops be raised mainly from non-
governmental budgetary sources. However, based on careful consideration, it was decided to support such research
until effective transition to alternative funding sources becomes possible.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed and ongoing).
Agriculture Sector                          Project                       Latest Form 590 Ratings*
[Bank-financed projects only]
IP              DO
Bank-financed
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1521 -ET);  s                s
Completed in 1994
Fourth Livestock Development Project (Cr.     s                 s
1782-ET) completed in 1994
Peasant Agricultural Development Project      s                 s
(Credit 1956-ET). Closed in June, 1997
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction         s                 s
Project (Cr. 235 1-ET) **
Small Scale Irrigation and Construction (Cr.  s                 s
1765-ET). Closed in June, 1997
National Fertilizer Sector Project (Cr. 2740-  s                s
ET)
National Seeds Project (Cr. 2741-ET)***       u                 u
*Rating: s =satisfactory u= unsatisfactory
**Closed in September 1995, except the roads component, which was closed in September 1997.
***The possibility of restructuring the Project in the forthcoming mid-term review, due July, 1998, is under review. A new Project
General Manager has been appointed by Government.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lesson 1: Ethiopia Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1521-ET): The ICR indicated that the project
implementing agencies should be given the financial authority to manage resources allocated to them, and adequate
financial recording, reporting and accounting systems must be in place for efficient functioning of any institution. Both
of these issues have been discussed with the Borrower and proposals for addressing them have been reviewed by IDA.
The proposed project also takes into consideration lessons from the project implementation which revealed that a well-
designed training plan should be prepared during appraisal for optimum results. The training plan for the first year was
discussed and agreed to during the technical discussions preceding credit negotiations. It was also found that the
research extension liaison committees, even though essential to sound formulation and implementation of research
programs, did not operate effectively; these constraints are being addressed in ARTP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             10
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Lesson 2: Bangladesh Agricultural Research and Agricultural Research and Extension Projects (Crs. 0828-BD,
1215-BD, and 1455-BD). OED's evaluation indicated that reluctance of the Government of Bangladesh to depart from
traditional civil service norms to create greater incentives for research performance led to limited achievements. In
Ethiopia, Government has appreciated these realities and have revised the salary scales of research staff which are now
about 50 percent higher than their counterparts in the civil service. ARTP also addresses the important issue of
incentives: a number of incentives to retain and honor scientific talent with an award/reward system and career
progression mechanism and extension of the retirement age are in place or are being put into place. Effective
coordinating and planing capacity in the Bangladesh project's implementing agency was not achieved because other
institutions did not accept its authority. The Government of Ethiopia, via a proclamation, has granted EARO full powers
to organize and manage the country's research program with direct accountability to the Prime Minister.
Lesson 3: Brazil Second Agricultural Research Project (Ln. 2016-BR). An outward looking policy in a national
research institution, as reflected in a willingness to seek and contract external experience, to invest heavily in external
training and to collaborate with international research centers, universities and research entities of excellence, can help
attain a high level of institutional performance. The proposed ARTP provides for hiring substantial external assistance
(Ph.D. -professors in various disciplines to teach at AUA) and to train a significant number of M.Scs and Ph.Ds abroad
over the next six years. Further, with support form the Project, effective linkages will be maintained with international
agricultural research centers, including connections through the internet.
Lesson 4: Agricultural Research Projects implemented in Uganda, Malawi and Kenya Institutional development
of an agricultural research system is a long term undertaking. IDA has taken the approach of supporting time-slices of
the longer term plans for the development of the Ethiopian Agriculture Research Program. Further, lack of adequate and
timely availability of counterpart funds has been a major cause of slow progress in a number of agricultural projects. In
ARTP, an agreement has been reached with the Government that the Borrower shall open, and maintain for the duration
of the Project life, a Project account in a Commercial Bank, and deposit at the beginning of each Project Year, its
estimated share of counterpart funds required for project implementation during that year. This account shall be used
exclusively to finance the Borrower's share of expenditures under the Project.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposal that IDA should support the Project came from the Deputy Prime Minister (Economy), even though
the need for it, in the context of poverty alleviation objective, is recognized in CAS. The Government, on its own
initiative, set up an expert team of Ethiopian officials in 1996 and worked out a proposal for restructuring the entire
agricultural research system to make it more efficient and responsive to the needs of potential beneficiaries. Thereafter,
the expert team prepared the project proposal as well as an implementation plan. Following the recommendation of the
expert team, a proclamation establishing an Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization and an Ethiopian Agricultural
Research Board has also been approved by the National Parliament. Thereafter, the EARB was nominated and is now
operational. The Government has also worked out a staffing plan for EARO, identified and provided office building
space, furniture, equipment and most of the staff up to middle-management level. Government has also appointed an
eminent scientist-cum-administrator as the Director General of EARO. Although many key management positions in
EARO are still to be filled, the Government is committed to do so prior to credit effectiveness. In the past, Government
had significantly increased research budgets to make up for the reduction in donor assistance. In fact, Ethiopia has a good
track record of funding the EARS over the past several years. The National Science and Technology Policy commits the
Government to provide up to 1.5 percent of the GDP for research. Government, in its letter of Sectoral Policy, has
reiterated this commitment. At current levels, the funding of agricultural research is significantly less than I percent of
agricultural GDP and is estimated to stay around one percent of projected agricultural GDP at the completion of ARTP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              I I
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
12. Value added of Bank Support:
Apart from providing a sizable financial support for implementing the project within a given time-frame, IDA
collaboration is expected to make a significant contribution in the design of the institutional restructuring, modernization
and strengthening of the recently decentralized research system. This would include establishing sound procedures for
planning and prioritizing research programs, building effective linkages within the research system as well as with
external research institutions of repute, introducing participatory approaches to agricultural research planning and
implementation, and assisting the client with the wealth of experience gained by IDA in promoting cost-effective and
relevant agricultural research systems in over 40 countries since 1980. This project will build on the achievements of the
earlier IDA-funded Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 152 1-ET), completed in 1994, which focused mainly on building
research infrastructure and providing limited training opportunities. The Bank support would also help in securing
coordination with other donors and harmonizing various approaches to the development of an agricultural research system
and the needed technical assistance.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed Assessments are in Project File. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment: (See Annex 4)
The economic net present value of the project is US$39.4 million in constant 1997 prices, at a discount rate of
12% or the opportunity costs of capital; the economic internal rate of return is 19%. The benefit to cost ratio of the project
is 1.6 in economic terms and the switching values are respectively 59% for costs and minus 37% for benefits. A risk
analysis (2,500 trials, Monte Carlo technique) reveals a certainty level of 70% that the economic internal rate of return is
at least equal to the opportunity costs of capital in Ethiopia. From an economic point of view it is concluded that the
project, which is to contribute about 2.5 million tons of total incremental production until Year 20 (peaking at 330
thousand tons annually in the high potential areas and 26 thousand tons annually in the low potential areas), is robust.
Overall the risk is from low to very low, particularly if one considers that the incremental benefits due to incremental
livestock production have not been taken into account in the economic analysis.
14. Financial Assessment (See Annex 4 and 5)
The financial net present value is US$ 48.5 million in constant prices of 1997, at a discount rate of 12%. The
financial internal rate of return for the project as a whole is 19% and the benefit to cost ratio is 1.6, while the switching
values are respectively 62% for costs and minus 38% for benefits. The risk analysis reveals a certainty level of about 70%
that the financial internal rate of return is at least equal to 12%. In constant 1997 prices, the tax component nets out at
about US$1.2 million equivalent, while the incremental recurrent costs associated with the project would average at about
US$ 4.0 million equivalent per year from the completion date of the project. Even though the proposed investments in the
project are financially viable, two built-in safeguards against potential infructuous and unsustainable investments have
been agreed to with the Borrower. First, the provision of housing and other social amenities, which are traditionally known
to act as an incentive for scientists and others working in the research centers at remote locations, would be preceded by a
careful needs assessment on a case by case basis. This safeguard has been proposed in view of IDA's experience
elsewhere. In some cases the scientists preferred to live in the neighboring towns; consequently some of the newly
constructed houses remained unoccupied. Second, the construction of new research centers under the project will be based
on a careful analysis of the viability and cost effectiveness of these investments as well as the strategic choices available to
EARO to service the agriculturists in the hitherto uncovered ecologies. The TORs for such a study, which will be
conducted in Project year- I, will be cleared with IDA, and its findings, together with EARB recommendations, will be
reviewed and agreed to with IDA.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              12
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
15. Technical Assessment:
The project is technically sound, and takes into account serious constraints affecting the current system and
lessons learned from the earlier IDA-funded Agricultural Research Projects in Ethiopia and some other countries. Within
the context of the poverty agenda, common both to IDA and the Government, it addresses the fundamental issue of
sustaining and enhancing the per unit productivity levels of farmers in the agriculture and livestock production systems.
This is proposed to be achieved by restructuring the organization of agricultural research and reforming the way various
national and regional institutions do business with the objective of improving the cost-effectiveness and relevance of
research. In addition, the project attaches equal importance to the dissemination of available and newly generated
technologies. It will put in place mechanisms for close research-extension-farmer linkages at the grass root (research
center) level. The proposed activities are in line with the findings and recommendations of OED with regard to IDA/Bank
funded agricultural research programs in several countries. More specifically, the project would: (a) decentralize research
programming and prioritization, and progressively build capacity for socio-economic analysis of the proposed programs;
(b) introduce participatory approaches (stakeholder and beneficiary consultation) to better identify and define the research
agenda for each research center; (c) foster more efficient coordination and interaction between the in-country research
entities as well as the external research institutions of excellence to avoid duplication and also to raise the scientific
rigor of EARS; (d) address the problem of serious shortage of researchers and related gender issues, strengthen appropriate
institutional capacity and improve the incentive framework to ensure a steady and adequate availability of scientific
personnel in the research system; (e) rationalize on-going research programs and cover uncovered ecologies, where the
poorest of the poor farmers live and are currently deprived of relevant (mostly drought-prone) technologies by establishing
a limited number of new centers; (f) improve electronic communications and networking to enhance access to knowledge
and available technologies within the country and world-wide; (g) establish an Agricultural Research Fund and install
procedures for contracting research with universities and other public and private sector agencies; and finally (h) initiate
some early steps towards the introduction of biotechnology research for crops and livestock, with greater emphasis on
tissue culture and microbiology (Rhizobium cultures). While the implementation of these measures should lead to the
adoption of sound research management principles and improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of agricultural
research , two things would be critical to the success of the project. One, throughout the life of the project, EARO would
need to carefully maintain a harmony between the size of the planned research effort and the available scientific personnel
and fiscal resources. This in turn would call for a rigorous process of prioritization of the research programs at the
national level. Two, the project's success would critically depend upon the process of consultation and collaboration
between various actors in the EARS as well as international research entities of excellence. At the RC level, close
collaboration between the research, extension and farmers would be necessary. At the national level, this collaboration is
sought to be achieved through the annual National Agricultural Research Workshop with participants drawn from the
research stations, regional governments, stakeholders including extension services and farmers, AUA, other higher
learning institutions, foreign collaborating and/or cooperating institutions and interested donors. Careful advance
preparations and planning of this workshop immediately following the annual technical review, and sharply focused
agenda on practical issues, including progress and problems faced by EARS in the outgoing year and work program for
the following year, would be critical to the success of the project. In addition, the national research programs will be
subject to external reviews at least twice during the life of the Project.
16. Institutional Assessment:
a Executing agencies: The project supports a major reform in the institutional setup of EARS. It seeks to build
institutional capacity, particularly for the newly set-up EARO, rationalize the role of various structures within EARS,
foster inter-institutional collaboration, and encourage institutional pluralism. Rapid build up of the institutional capacity
in EARO would be the most crucial of all. Inevitably, it would need maximum support from the Government in terms of
budgetary resources and the autonomy in order to become fully operational as soon as possible. It would need to appoint
staff in all key positions, get adequate budget, establish and familiarize its cooperating institutions, like the RCs and AUA,
with its working procedures and systems, and foster satisfactory working relationships with the regional governments and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                13
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
others. As a risk minimization measure , appointment of key staff in EARO, finalization and introduction of its own
procedures and systems, and signing of memorandum of understanding with RRCs/regional Governments, AUA, MOA
to improve inter-institutional accountability are credit effectiveness conditionalities. The EARO will need to seek
strategic partnerships with external institutions to enhance effectiveness of the EARS; this is a part of its mandate. The
Project will assist the EARO/FRCs/RRCs to design, develop, test and introduce client-responsive procedures and systems
to handle technical, organizational, administrative, financial, accounting and monitoring aspects in the EARO as well as
in the RCs. This should make it possible to introduce changes mentioned in paragraph 15 above. Further, the Project
lays great emphasis on Human Resource Development, with the AUA as an active partner and implementing agency, as
the basis for sustainable institutional strengthening of the agricultural research system and its expansion to disadvantaged
areas. The project has a sizable technical assistance component in terms of expatriate teaching faculties for AUA and
foreign training of Ethiopian scientists for M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees. In this context, IDA has further discussed with the
borrower during credit negotiations the possible opportunities for EARO to establish long term institutional relationship
and collaboration arrangements with some reputable foreign agricultural university(ies), to strengthen the effectiveness of
its HRD program in general, and training program in particular. AUA would take steps in this direction. Finally, the
project will initiate institutional pluralism in research funding and execution by establishing an ARF, which should be
able to attract the farmers' research groups, universities, international research centers, and others in the EARS.
b. Project management: The newly created EARO would be responsible for the management of ARTP. Manuals
to handle accounting and financial matters, and linkage mechanisms with domestic and external institutions and
stakeholders, to guide all implementing agencies in project implementation, have been drafted. IDA has provided its
comments for further improvements. The key revised manuals will be adopted by EARO before credit effectiveness.
Satisfactory establishment of EARO and various operational procedures for dealing with the federal and regional research
centers and with the linkage between them and the extension service in the regions would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Government has already appointed the EARO Director General who participated in credit
negotiations, together with the President of AUA. To facilitate effective project management, the key management staff
would be appointed and EARO made operational prior to credit effectiveness.
17. Social Assessment:
Since beneficiary involvement and stakeholder participation is central to the project, project implementation is
likely to have a positive impact on all participating farmers and users of new technology. The project will address two
key social issues. First, the project will, subject to assured availability of fiscal and human resource, extend its coverage
to resource poor farming systems in less favorable (drought and famine prone) environments. Second, it will address the
gender issue by (a) paying specific attention to agricultural operations which are handled by women; and (b) facilitate
women's entry into the research system. A study will be organized in PY- I to identify needs of women farmers as they
relate to the development of technology. The implementation of agreed recommendations would be reported in half-
yearly reports and reviewed by supervision missions. Also, in the matter of recruitment and training of scientists and
technicians, the project would support the new Government policy initiative to encourage women's entry into universities
through financial support and lowering of admission requirements (this policy also applies to poor applicants from rural
areas). These proactive steps should help alleviate the serious imbalance in the male-female ratio.
18. Environmental Assessment:      Environmental Category       [ ] A          [ ] B         [X] C
Justification/Rationale for category rating: Farmers in Ethiopia are one of the major custodians of its natural
resources. Facilitating the generation of ecologically sound and yield enhancing agricultural technologies for sustainable
use of these resources is one of the important objectives of the proposed project. The yield enhancing technologies are
intended to relieve pressure on marginal and degraded lands which are currently being brought under cultivation by
subsistence farmers. Also, setting up the mechanisms to facilitate participatory on-farm and farming systems research
should help stabilize and improve farming in areas with degraded environments. By involving farmer and the extension
officers fully in the development and formulation of future research programs, it is anticipated that a more resource-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             14
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
sensitive and environmentally sustainable research agenda and program with emphasis on soil-moisture conservation and
integrated pest management technology will be fostered. Further, the project would include a review process which
would screen out research proposals that could potentially have a negative environmental impact. The environmental
impact of the project is therefore expected to be positive.
Status of any other environmental studies: The Government has prepared a National Conservation Strategy. It has also
established an Environmental Protection Agency.
Local groups and NGOs consulted: Sasakawa Global 2000.
19. Participatory Approach:    Identification/Preparation   Implementation             Operation
Beneficiaries/Community groups       CON                      COL                      COL
Intermnediary NGOs        CON                    CON\COL                  CON\COL
AUA and other academic institutions     COL                      COL                      COL
Local government       CON\COL                    COL                      COL
Other donors     IS\CON\COL           IS\CON\possibly COL          IS\CON\COL
NOTE: IS = Information Sharing; CON = Consultation; COL =Collaboration
20. Sustainability:
The project is designed to promote longer term sustainability by improving the efficiency of resource use,
enhancing the ownership of the research effort, and putting in place and maintaining an incentive structure to attract and
retain scientific staff in EARS. This would include: (a) developing a capacity in EARO to evaluate the relative quality
and cost-effectiveness of each research proposal; (b) improving the relevance of research through institutionalized
stakeholder and beneficiary consultation; (c) avoiding overlap and duplication in research investment inter alia, by
accessing information from the national and international centers through an efficient internet/e-mail system; (d)
improving the capacity utilization of the research infrastructure through timely and adequate funding and staffing of
research centers as well as by systematic monitoring of research outputs. The institutional and financial sustainability of
the project is enhanced by the evident strong commitment of Government to agricultural research. Government, under its
Science and Technology Policy, is committed to allocate up to 1.5 percent of the country's GDP to research. According
to Government estimates, the agricultural research intensity ratio, viz. Government expenditures on agricultural research
(including incremental operating expenses) would remain, by the close of ARTP in 2004, within 1 percent of the
projected agricultural GDP.
The Project will also assist in improving the incentive structure for the research staff-- it is a critical ingredient in
ensuring sustainability of EARS. The salary scales of scientists have been revised, and are now about 50 percent higher
than their comparators in civil service. ARTP is supporting improvement of the institutional environment through: (a)
modernization of laboratories; and (b) need-based construction of residential housing and social amenities at the RCs.
Further, Government has agreed to reactivate its earlier schemes of: (i) annually providing "Best Scientist" award based
upon a transparent peer review; and (ii) leasing plots of land to eligible scientists for construction of residential houses in
outlying areas. Government has also agreed to routinely grant annual extensions of service to meritorious staff retiring at
the age of 55. Further, EARO will aggressively seek to identify and provide additional incentives, as appropriate to the
research staff.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   15
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk              Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to   (i) delays in EARO getting fully  moderate   (i) agreed on a time-bound action plan for staff
development objectives established and taking charge of          recruitment and other essential steps, including
the research system.                        installation of working procedures and adoption of key
manuals, before credit effectiveness. Further, a special
cell in the DG's office would ensure that EARO is
made fully operational in the shortest time.
(ii) inadequate autonomy of the   low       (ii) Government Proclamation grants EARO an
research system, leading to delays          autonomous status. During technical discussions,
and discontinuities.                        preceding negotiations, it was confirmed that EARO
has powers to recruit and remove staff, make intra-
institutional budget adjustments, contract out research,
and introduce, modify and drop research programs.
(iii) inadequate motivation and  moderate   (iii) agreed on an incentive structure for scientific staff.
problems in the retention of                (Block 20 above.)
scientific staff
Project components to  (i) inadequate budgetary support    moderate   (i) EARO will obtain clear, prior commitment from
outputs             for investment and operational               Government before approving a new research
expenses of specific components.            program; further, counterpart funds would be
deposited in project accounts before the
commencement of each year
(a credit conditionality).
(ii) expansion of research        high      (ii) proposal for expansion to be supported by a
programs and centers, without               feasibility study together with an assured availability
assurance of adequate fiscal and            of fiscal and human resources (a credit conditionality).
human resources.
(iii) delays in strengthening   moderate   (iii) EARO will submit an annual work program,
research centers due to                     including a procurement plan, three months prior to the
administrative and procurement              start of the next fiscal year together with a program
delays.                                     report on the current year (a credit conditionality).
Overall Project Risk                                 moderate
Rating                                            I             I_ _
22. Possible Controversial Aspects: None.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
a.     EARO will have finalized and adopted the Project Implementation Manual, and the Finance Accounts and
Budget Manual.
b.     EARO will have put in place procedures for decentralization of research, and familiarized all RCs with the new
procedures through written directives, and signed a memorandum of understanding, in a format acceptable to
IDA, with each implementing agency not directly under its administrative control.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            1 6
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
c.    EARO will have deposited into the Project Account its estimated share of counterpart funds required for
implementation of the agreed work program for PY- 1.
d.    EARO will have filled up the positions of two Deputy Directors General, ARTP Coordinator, and Heads of
Departments of Procurement, and Finance and Accounting.
e.    Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, AUA, and at least two selected representatives of the regional
governments, in rotation, will be nominated on the EARB.
24. Other
24.1 Dated Convenants
a.    By June 30. 1998: EARO will establish, and maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Coordinator
Unit, headed by a Project Coordinator, with staff including a procurement specialist, a human resource
development specialist, an agricultural research specialist, and an accounting and disbursement specialist;
b.    By June 30. 1999: EARO will conduct a study to make an in-depth analysis of gender issues in the agricultural
research sector, and agree with IDA on an action plan;
c.    By June 30. 1999: EARO will conduct a detailed feasibility study and agree with IDA on an action plan for the
setting up of the proposed new research centers;
d.    By September 30, 1999: EARO will prepare and agree with IDA, on a five-year rolling research action plan; this
plan will include an estimate of the budgetary and human resource requirements and implementation time-tables;
e.    By December 31. 1999: EARO will establish an Agricultural Research Fund under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA;
f.    EARO will take all preparatory steps and collaborate with IDA for a mid-term review of project implementation
progress no later than 36 months after project effectiveness.
24.2 General Conditions
a.    EARO will recruit staff and maintain arrangements to make socio-economic evaluation of all research
programs;
b.    EARO will annually review with IDA the current and possible future role of the private sector in agricultural
research;
c.    EARO will submit to IDA an annual work program and a detailed procurement plan three months prior to
the beginning of each fiscal year;
d.    EARO will annually evaluate, in conjunction with IDA, its research programs in accordance with agreed
monitoring indicators. These programs will also be subject to external review at least twice during the life of the
project;
e.    EARO will annually conduct a National Agricultural Research Workshop to review the past year's performnance
and finalize an action plan for the next year;
f.    EARO will conduct a base-line sample survey in Project year-l, and follow up with annual sample beneficiary
surveys to study the adoption rate and impact of transferred technology;
g.    EARO will submit half-yearly progress reports on ARTP to IDA in mutually agreed formats;
h.    EARO will annually submit an audit report on project accounts, statements of expenditures and the Special
Accounts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     1 7
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
| [X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader:                                            Country Director



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                         18
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Page 1 of 5
Annex I
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                          Key Performance                   Monitoring & Supervision           Critical Assumptions &
Indicators                                                               Risks
CAS /Sector Related Goal:
1. Sustainable and ecologically sound growth in   E. Increase in production and yield in crop    1.1.1 Annual agricultural survey by
the agricultural sector accelerated.        and livestock and increase in the number    the Central Statistical Authority
of small farmers using new technology.  (CSA);
1.1.2 Annual crop production and
assessment surveys by the FAO-
World Food Program;
1.1.3 Baseline survey and subsequent
annual surveys of program
effectiveness by EARO;
1.1.4 Mid-term review (MTR) and
implementation completion report
(ICR).
Project Development Objectives:
2. Practical, responsive and ecologically sound    2.1 Accelerated identification, testing,  2.1.1 EARO semi-annual reports;  (a) normal rainfall;
technologies for small-bolder crop and      release and transfer to the extension
livestock production systems identified and  services of improved technologies in crop   2.1.2 supervision reports;      (b) stable political situation;
transferred to extension.                   and livestock production and natural
resource management;                    2.2.1 Mid-term review reports (MTR)   (c) conducive macro-
and implementation completion report  economic environment,
2.2 Number of new research initiatives  (ICR).                              including pricing ofagricul-
based on collaborative process started                                      tural produce and inputs;
annually.
(d) continued availability of
complementary agricultural
support services, including
extension and credit;
(e) new technology adapted
by larger number of farmers;
(f) qualified research staff
will be in position.
Outputs:
1. EARO management and coordination         1.1 Autonomous apex organization        1.1.1 EARO report by end Sept.      (a) EARO granted
system made operational                     established to guide and coordinate      1998;                               autonomous status;
overall national research system, staffed
and operational by Sept. 1998;          1.1.2 supervision reports;          (b)AUA and RRCs remain
fully responsive to EARO and
1.1.3 EARO's semi-annual reports.   project goals;
(c) incentives system
designed, developed and
implemented for the research
system by Sept. 1998 and
(d) EARO does not suffeT
staffor budget shortages.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                         19
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex I
Page 2 of 5
Verifiable Indicators              Monitoring & Supervision            Assumptions & Risks
1.2 ARTP coordination unit for donor    1 .2.1 EAROreport before Sept. 1998;
assisted projects established and
operational by June 30, 1998;           1.2.2 supervision reports;
1.2.2 EAROs semi-annual reports.
1.3 EARO implements policy, formulates    1.3.1 supervision reports;
strategy, defines participatory processes,
approves prioritized research, allocates  1.3.2 EARO's semi-annual reports.
budgets, and periodically monitors,
evaluates and reports on research
programs, promotes domestic and
international linkages and workshops;
1.4 Consolidated annual ARTP workplan,   1.4.1 Annual workplan;
procurement plan and training plan
prepared by EARO three months prior to  1.4.2 Annual procurement plan;
the beginning of each fiscal year and
cleared with IDA;                       1.4.3 Annual training plan.
1.5 Information and documentation unit  1.5.1 supervision reports;
(publications, library, research data base)
established, staffed, equipped and      1.5.2 EAROs semi-annual reports.
operational by Dec. 1999;
1.6 Draft manuals for financial,        1.6.1 submission of finalized manuals
accounting, budgetary, project          by EARO to IDA by Sept. 1998;
implementation, procurement and research
planning and prioritization procedures  1.6.2 training workshops completed
finalized and adopted by Sept. 1998, and    by Dec. 1998.
staff at research centers trained.
1.7 ARF established                     1.7.1 Supervision report;
1.7.2 EARO's semi-annual report.
2 Integrated information technology system   2.1 Fully integrated information       2.1.1 supervision reports;           (a) necessary studies are
implemented and operational                 technology system, including                                                 completed on time.
hardware/software platforms, Intemet and    2.1.2 EAROYs semi-annual reports.
database access, deployed in EARO                                           (b) suitable staff are
headquarters, AUA and all centers by Dec,                                   available for training
1999;
2.2 Concemed rmearchers and other users   2.2.1 supervision reports;
at EARO headquarters, AUA and all
centers trained in information system   2.2.2 EARO's semi-annual reports.
operation by Dec. 1999;
2.3 management Information system       2.3.1 supervision reports;
(MIS) for all centers, AUA and EARO
headquarters established and operational  2.3.2 EARO's semi-annual reports.
by Dec. 1999;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                         20
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Output                             Verifiable Indicators              Monitoring & Supervision             Assumptions & Risks
3. Quality and responsiveness of research   3.1 Client-centered, demand driven       3.1.1 EARO semi-annual report;      (a) effective implemen-tation of
programs improved                           collaborative process for identifying,                                       procedures for prioritizing
prioritizing, implementing and evaluating    3.1.2 Supervision reports; and  research through client
research programs established and                                            consultative approach;
managed at research center level by Dec.    3.1.3 Annual beneficiary assessment
1998;                                   surveys.                            (b) incentive system for
researchers in place and
operational; and
c) adequate counterpart funds
provided by Govemment on-
time
3.2 Authority delegated to the research  3.2.1  Letter delegating authority to
centers for technical and financial control    the research centers;
over research programs by Sept. 1998;
3.2.2. Supervision reports.
3.3 performance based system for annual    3.3.1 EARO semi-annual report;
funding and review of approved research
programs established at federal and     3.3.2 Supervision reports.
research centers by Sept. 1998;
3.4 Research centers and extennal research    3.4.1 EARO semi-annual report;
institutions linkages established for
exchange of infoanmation, staff and     3.4.2 Supervision reports.
collaborative/contract research
3.5 Biotechnology research initiated at  3.5.1 EARO semi-annual report;
selected research centers
3.5.2 Supervision reports.
4. Network  of existing  research  centers  4.1 upgrade existing centers (physical  4.1.1 EARO semi-annual report;       (a) adequate counterpart
rehabilitated and strengthened              quantities) by Dec. 2002;                                                    funds provided by the
4.1.2 Supervision reportn.          Govemment on-time; and
(b) adequate number of
staff deployed at the
research centers.
4.2 replacement and new                 4.2.1 EARO semi-annual report;
laboratory/farm/office equipment (see
project files list); incremental recurrent  4.2.2 Supervision reports.
costs provided;
4.3 vehicles include. buses and         4.3.1 EARO semi-annual report;
motorcycles procured and deployed
4.3.2 Supervision reports.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                   21
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
Output                              Verifiable Indicators                  Monitoring & Supervision                 Assumptions & Risks
5. new centers established in uncovered   5.1 six new research centers constructed,    5.1.1 EARO semi-annual report;           (a) feasibility studies for the
agro-ecological zones                     equipped, staffed and operational by ... 2003                                         centers fully justify the
5.1.2 Supervision reports.              investment; and
(b) adequate scientific staff is
available to run the research
centers.
6. Biotechnology research strengthened    6.1 Additional laboratory facilities at      6.1.1 EARO semi-annual report:           (a) adequate scientific staff is
selected research centers built, and                                                 available to run the research
biotechnology specific equipment installed,    6.1.2 Supervision reports.            centers.
and made operational by Dec. 2000;
7.  research-extension-farmer  linkages   7.1 research-extension-farmercoordination    7.1.1 EARO semi-annual report;           (a) active participation of
established and operational               mechanism  established at the federal,                                                extension services staff and
regional and research center level for       7.1.2 Supervision reports;              farmers in the formulation,
getting farner feed-back on research priority                                        prioritization, mplementation and
needs and for disseminating research        7.1.3  Annual beneficiary assessment   review of research pro-grams;
finding;                                     survey.
(b) effective extension service in
7.2 Altemative approaches to research,      7.2.1 EARO semi-annual report;           place and operational;
extension and fhrmer linkages piloted in
selected areas in 1998/99 through e.g. mass  7.2.2 Supervision reports;              (c) commitment of extension
media, farm trials, field farm days,                                                 services to participatory
diagnostic surveys, extension training at   7.2.3  Annual beneficiary  assessment   approaches to technology,
research centers and successful approaches  survey in pilot areas.                   development and transfer
replicated beginning Jan. 1999.
(d) commitment of Regional
Govemments and EARO to
implement effectively the
=________________________________   proposed linkage mechanisms.
S. Strengthened Alemaya University of   8.1 Improved skills of academic teaching       8.1.1 EAROsemi-annual report;           (a) adequate number of persons
Agriculture                               staff at AUA by allowing for their overseas                                          identified;
Ph.D. training, while their teaching duties  8.1.2 Supervision reports.
were covered during their absence by                                                 (b) adequate number of
especially recruited professors/assistant                                            professors/assistant professors
professors under a technical assistance                                              recruited internationally;
arrangements.
(c) adequate counterpart funds
provided by the Govemment on-
time.
8.2 Built additional office, laboratory,    8.2.1 EARO semi-annual report;
library, class room, and computer center
facilities to improve the educational       8.2.2 Supervision reports.
infrastructure and provided funding for
associated incremental recurrent costs
8.3 Supplied office and laboratory          8.4.1 EARO semi-annual report;
equipment, fumiture, textbooks and jourmals,
as well as limited farm equipment, vehicles  8.4.2 Supervision reports.
and funding to cover associated incremental
recurrent costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                         22
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
Output                              Verifiable Indicators             Monitoring & Supervision           Assumptions & Risks
8.4 Expanded the on-campus facilities  8.4.1 EARO semi-annual report;
by building and equipping. interalia, a
health clinic, kindergarten and px-store,   8.4.2 Supervision reports.
to make campus life more attractive and
retain teaching staff, and provided
associated incremental recurrent costs
9. Improved Skills of Research Staff             9.1 Completed in a coordinated manner   9.1.1 EAROsemi-annual report;    (a) adequate number of
a gender sensitive training program                                      male and female research
commensurate to the project investmnent   9.1.2 Supervision reports.     staff available, without
activities - including overseas Ph.D.
and local M.Sc. and on- the-job training                                 seriously affecting on-
- to improve the skills of research staff                                going research programs.
in existing and new research centers,
as well as in the selected sectoral
research institutes
Components/Activibies                                           Inputs
I: Anricultural Research Management                                             I5J   1. Progress reports and disburse-
ment reports
a. Improve the Management Function EARO                        3.8
b. Improve the Info. & Documentation System                    5.5
.     Strengthen the Info. & Documentation's Unit  1.5
- Ensure Connectivity at Research Center Level  4.0
c. Enhance Focus of Agricultural Research                      6.5
- Ensure linkages with the extension-farmers   4.6
- Strengthen Linkages Other Organizations      0.4
- Agricultural Research Fund                   1.5
2.. Improve the Agricultural Research System                                     47.1  2. Progress reports and disburse-
ment reports
a. Strengthen the Existing Research Centers                    27.6
b. Expand Network to Unserved Agroecologies                    15.6
c. Modemize Research Technology                                 3.9
3. Human Resource Development                                                    27.7  3. Progress reports and disburse-
ment reports
a. Strengthen Alemaya University of Agriculture                18.3
- Improve Teaching Facilities                  8A
- Improve Skilis of Academic Staff             9.5
- Improve On-Campus Facilities                 0.4
b. Improve Skills of Research Staff                            9.5
- Researchers at Research Center               9.1
- Other Research Staff                         0.4
Grand Totsl



Project Appraisal Document                                                    23
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Letter of Sectoral Policy
Annex 1-A
March 13, 1998
To the President
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Dear Sir,
Re: ETHIOPIA 'SAGRICULTURAL RESFARCHSECTOR POLICY/STRATEGY
1.    INTRODUCTION
Agriculture, will remain to be the corner stone of the Ethiopian Economy for some time
to come. It is because of this dominance in the national economy that the economic
development policy of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) has given
the utmost priority to agriculture under the aegis of an Agricultural Development Led
Industrialization (ADLI) strategy. Agriculture is considered as the engine of growth on
account of its surplus generation, employment generation, market creation and provision
of raw materials for domestic industries.
Despite the importance of agriculture to the economy, the country is faced with low level
of agricultural productivity and degradation of the natural resource base which are mainly
attributed to the inefficient technology that has been practiced by the peasant sector
which accounts for over 90 percent of agricultural production. ADLI places emphasis on
improvements in the productivity of small holder agriculture and industrialization based
on the utilization of domestic raw materials and labor intensive technologies.
The Government of Ethiopia, in its strategic planning to promote growth, reduce poverty,
protect the environment and ultimately attain food self-sufficiency, emphasized among
others, on increase in agricultural productivity through improved agronomic practices and
the use of improved technologies. Small-holder agriculture is therefore and will remain
the most important sector for the diffusion of improved technology; it needs to be backed
up by a strong agricultural research system. This letter highlights the sector's main
constraints and the Government's strategies to address them with specific attention to
actions that will facilitate the development of new technologies for agricultural
production and their dissemination to farmers. The strategies outlined here will be used
by the Government to underpin the design and implementation of the proposed National
Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP) for technology development and
dissemination.                           A



Project Appraisal Document                                                            24
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Page 2 of 8
2.  BACKGROUND
The agriculture sector is dominated by small scale resource poor farmers. In the past,
various strategic initiatives were taken. These included strategies known as
"Comprehensive Package Programs" in the seventies followed by the "Minimum Package
Projects" and "Peasant Agricultural Development Programs" in the mid-eighties.
However, there was no significant change in the productivity of Ethiopian Agriculture.
Private capital formation in agriculture began to fall in the 1970s, and deteriorated even
further during the 1980s. It is, however, expected to increase with the accelerated
economic growth of recent years. The slow growth in agricultural GDP and continuing
disinvestment in the sector has had significant repercussions on agriculture's contribution
to overall economic growth. As agriculture's contribution to GDP growth declined, so
did the overall economic growth, which in the 70s and 80s was well below the rate of
population increase. Consequently, average incomes have fallen and the incidence of
poverty has increased. Without greater investment in agriculture, it is unlikely that the
economy will grow as fast as desired in order to improve food security and reduce
poverty. In addition to recurrent drought, several policy and institutional weaknesses that
have constrained agricultural performance have recently been or are being addressed.
These included centrally controlled pricing and marketing systems, weakness of the
institutional environment in supporting the small scale farmer, including poor extension
services and lack of rural credit and other support services, all contributing to low levels
of agricultural performance.
The importance of introducing scientific and technological activities as a means of raising
agricultural production and productivity in Ethiopia has been realized since the mid-
1940's when the first agricultural schools were established at Ambo and Jimma. More
experimental activities were undertaken with the establishment of the then College of
Agriculture and Mechanical Arts at Alemaya in the mid-1950's. The most significant
step in the establishment of a national agricultural research network came about with the
creation of the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) in 1966. The IAR was built with
the assistance provided by four successive phases of a UNDP financed and FAO executed
project (1966-83). In addition, several IAR research centers were opened with bilateral
and multi-lateral assistance. IDA supported an Agricultural Research Project between
1986-1994.
The National Agricultural Research System (NARS), has attempted to cover different
agro-ecological regions and deal with many important crop and livestock commodities in
the country. Some progress has been made in terms of building up of research capability
through the development of research centers and facilities, trained manpower and
generating improved technologies for crops, livestock and natural resources management.
However, NARS was affected by many constraints, which include a lack of clear
agricultural research policy (until 1993), poor institutional relationships, inadequate
coverage of some agro-ecologies (in some cases completely unaddressed) such as the
moisture-stress areas and poor emphasis on livestock and natural resources research.
2   /1



Project Appraisal Document                                                              25
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Page 3 of 8
At present, the Government expects the economy to grow at a rate that is commensurate
with the provision of sufficient employment for the growing labor force. The choices are
very clear. -Unless agriculture gets back on a sustained growth path, it will be very
difficult for Ethiopia's economy to grow at a rate fast enough to reverse the decline in
per-capita income, create sufficient employment opportunities and make a significant
contribution towards poverty reduction. Furthermore, unless farm-level productivity and
incomes are raised, there will continue to be out- migration to the fragile arid and semi-
arid areas, thus contributing to environmental degradation of these marginal lands.
Another aspect is that relatively low farm incomes encourage rural urban migration of
people in search of employment.
There is some scope of horizontal expansion into new areas without causing severe
environmental damage. The two main options for agricultural growth, however, are
through "intensification" and "diversification" into higher value comnrmodities. Amongst
the industriaV export crops, tea, coffee, cotton horticulture and the like offer the greatest
potential. In the food crops sector, maize, wheat and tef offer a similar opportunity, while
the livestock sector, could easily be the front runner. These are the main areas that can
become important sources of growth in the short term. There are also other important
crops from a food self-sufficiency point of view. Poultry too has the potential to become
an important supplementary source of cash income for smallholder farmers. In all these
areas, technology generation and dissemination to end-users is more critical now than
even before and this is the rationale for ARTP.
3.    ETHIOPIA'S AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING
PROJECT (ARTP)
The proposed ARTP is designed to help develop Ethiopia's National Agricultural
Research Program and make it more effective, efficient and relevant. Support to the
national agricultural research system must be increased to accelerate ongoing research,
address newly emerging priorities and ensure sustained agricultural research funding.
Several "on the shelf' technologies have not been adequately tested and evaluated by
farmners for their relevance and adaptability. In other cases the delivery systems (e.g. for
seeds and other planting materials) are inadequate and require further development.
The most serious challenge has been the difficulty for the Government to provide the
required infrastructure and an overall enabling environment for efficient and effective
agricultural research, according to the established priorities and work plans. The terms
and conditions of service and work environment for research staff require further
improvement with special recognition of research impact. Ethiopia is characterized by
great agro-ecological diversity and it has not been possible to satisfactorily address the
needs of the priority regions. Problems are also being encountered due to insufficient
adoption of improved technologies developed by research in part due to insufficient
research/extension collaboration and the lack of farmer involvement and participation in
research priority setting and adaptive research. All theses will be addressed under ARTP.
3      i)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            26
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Page 4 of 8
ARTP is therefore being designed to support an intensified effort towards technology
development and adaptation to specific agro-ecological and socio-economic
environrments and improvement of the technology delivery systems. An important focus
will be on ensuring timely availability and efficient use of all available financial
resources for agricultural research. ARTP's key objective are:
(i)    making the newly created apex national organization for research, viz. the
Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO) fully functional
with appropriate working procedures and systems;
(ii)   building participatory approaches in a decentralized agricultural research
system;
(iii)  establishing a management information system (MIS) and networking of
information systems;
(iv)  fostering effective linkages between the research, extension and farmers
on the one hand, and between the research centers, domestically and
internationally, on the other hand;
(v)   rehabilitating and strengthening the existing research infrastructure and
extending it to hitherto uncovered and harsh agro-ecological areas
characterized by extreme poverty;
(vi)  building human resource capacity for agricultural research through
technical assistance and training; and
(vii)  strengthening the Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA).
4.    ACTION AND STRATEGIES
Development Strategy: The overall development strategy revolves around
improvements in the productivity of small-holder agriculture and industrialization based
on the utilization of domestic raw materials and labor-intensive technology known as
agricultural-development-led-industrialization (ADLI). ADLI places emphasis on
agriculture as the engine of growth on account of its surplus generation, employment
generation, market creation and provision of raw materials and foreign exchange. The
Government is convinced that the agricultural growth challenge can be met as observed
by the accelerated development of the sector from 1992 to 1996 when production of food
grains (cereals, pulses and oilseeds) increased dramatically from a longer term average of
just over 6 million tons in the 1980s to over 10 million tons in 1996. The sector has
considerable further potential for growth as there are wide technology gaps, confirmed
scope to raise output by increasing the use of improved seeds and other inputs, and ample
4   / L-



Project Appraisal Document                                                              27
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Page 5 of 8
opportunity. for productive investment. Significant potential also remains for the
diversification of the sector from low to higher value commodities. The future, therefore,
lies in transforming smallholder farms from a subsistence to a farm enterprise mode by
accelerating the change in the mix of fanning activities to those which add more value
per unit of land and labor.
Agricultural Research Policy: In order for NARS to be effective, it will be guided by
Governnent's clearly defined national agricultural research policy. The major-objective
of the research policy is to make agricultural research an integral part of the overall
Science and Technology (S&T) policy in general and that of the agricultural development
program in particular. As a sub-component of S&T activities, agricultural research policy
will enhance the use of S&T in agriculture and give a clear direction and guidance for
agricultural research and the application of research results in agricultural development.
National agricultural research system will therefore place major emphasis on developing
and disseminating improved technologies for the peasant sector, in line with the national
agricultural development policy.
Research Organization and Structure: In order for the NARS to achieve its designated
objectives, the Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO) has been
established by the Proclamation, No. 79/1997. EARO is an autonomous body of the
FDRE (Proclamation No.79/1997, Article 3 No. 1) EARO will oversee and manage
agricultural research centers established or to be established by the Federal Governnent.
EARO will also have the responsibility for coordinating research activities of all
agricultural research centers (Federal or Regional) and higher learning institutions that
undertake agricultural research (Proclanation No. 79/1997, Article 5 No.2) to provide it a
proper direction and avoid duplication. It will establish an efficient information network
and ensure national and international connectivity. It will also facilitate, assist and
encourage the organization and development of the various agricultural research centers
(Article 6 No. 12). While the Federal Research Centers are directly accountable to
EARO, the Regional Research Centers and higher learning institutions will sign
memoranda of understanding (MoU) with EARO. The MoUs would clearly establish the
role and responsibilities of each signatory in the promotion of research
activities/collaboration.
At the national level, EARO will be the key player in the overall NARS and is
responsible for the establishment and management of national agricultural research
programs. Agricultural research programs that are directly under EARO are programs that
address agricultural research problems that are of national significance, important in at
least two regional states. The are funded by the Federal Government, either from the
central treasury or through bilateral or multilateral assistance. Federal agricultural
research programs are, in most cases, applied research but some basic research is also
undertaken in collaboration with higher learning institutions or by creating centers of
excellence that would require specialized equipment and skills.
5



Project Appraisal Document                                                              28
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Page 6 of 8
While the major responsibility of higher learning institutions is the training of human
resources in agriculture, they are also responsible for undertaking research in agriculture.
They maintain a core of qualified research scientists and serve as centers of high level
researchers and academicians, high level manpower training and a source of essential and
basic scientific information for research and other services. Universities research will be
integrated with the national agricultural research through the involvement of university
staff in National research programs funded by the research system in collaborative
arrangements in the form of contractual research schemes with national and regional
research institutions. Postgraduate students will also be involved in problem-oriented
thesis research with EARO.
Regional Research Centers (RRCs) are a part of NARS; these are established under a
regional government and focus their research effort on region specific problems. Such
research institutions shall engage mainly on adaptive and/or applied research. They can
solicit support and/or involvement from the Federal research institutions. They depend on
regional and/or federal government funds (local and/or foreign) to undertake their
research activity. In practice, RRCs collaborate with the NARS and benefit from the
synergies generated by close interaction.
The public sector will remain to be the major actor in agricultural research for some time
to come. However, as agriculture becomes increasingly modernized and the role of the
agro-industries and related enterprises in agricultural development becomes more
important, private sector research could become also important. Government would
increasingly encourage the entry of private sector in agricultural research, as a part of its
S&T Policy.
Twinning arrangements would be made with International Agricultural Research Centers
(IARCs) either within the country or outside the country, when it is believed that such
collaboration would strengthen the national agricultural research effort. Twinning
arrangements between national higher learning institutions and faculties of agriculture in
universities and research centers in other countries is a current practice, and will continue.
Research Programs and Coverage: Although the distribution of the existing research
centers covers most of the major agroecological zones of the country, some of the low
rainfall, marginal and drought-prone areas in the northern and eastern part of the country
are poorly covered. In the high rainfall/high potential areas, the southem, western and
eastern highlands are not also adequately covered by research centers. In order to fill
these gaps in agro-ecological coverage by research centers, the Government will establish
six research centers at Sekotta, Humera, Shiket, Jijija, Jinka and Yavello in the coming
five years (1998-2002). In addition, the existing research centers, will be rehabilitated and
updated in facilities and laboratory equipment.
Agricultural research programs that were less emphasized in the past will be given due
attention. Research in the areas of livestock and natural resources will be strengthened. In
addition to the already existing seven crop commnodity research programs, other crop or
6    L



Project Appraisal Document                                                            29
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 1-A
Page 7 Of8
livestock product commodity researches which were lumped together as 'plant science'
and 'animal science' research are now signed out and given a commodity status for
appropriate emphasis.
The major thrust of the ARTP would be to promote decentralized NARS with the primary
beneficiaries of research, namely the farmer, being involved at the local level in the
research planning and prioritization process. Establishment of institutional mechanisms to
ensure research-extension-farner linkages to improve the effectiveness and relevance of
research would receive high priority.
Human Resource Development: In human resources development, effort to develop a
cadre of highly skilled and dedicated research staff will be undertaken. A national
agricultural research manpower development plan that will take into consideration
gender, the type of specialization required, the minimum number of research workers in
each category, the level of competence required, the ratio between research and support
staff is being worked out. This plan will be linked to the rolling five year research plans
and suitable priorities will be established to ensure the optimum use of this scare
resource. The manpower plan will include allocation of training positions and fellowships
to enable present research staff and the additional staff required to be systematically
trained to the required level. The long-term solution to the scientific manpower needs of
NARS will be to strengthen higher learning institutions including their post-graduate
programs. Special attention is also given to create a career structure and incentive and
reward system that will help motivate and retain qualified staff. The work environment of
research staff is also being improved through the modernization of laboratories, provision
of housing and other social amenities. The salary scales of research staff were recently
revised upwards upto about 50 percent, and are now more attractive than comparable
positions in the civil service.
Technology Transfer: Effective links between research, extension and enduser will be
formed in order to provide the farmers with the necessary advice, knowledge, and
technology that would help them increase their agricultural productivity. Research and
Extension advisory committees (RELC), Farming Systems Research and other forms of
research extension linkage mechanisms will be applied.
Funding: The Government will ensure that adequate financial resources are secured for
undertaking research. The major sources for funding for agricultural research include,
government allocations from the national budget; grants, loans and technical assistance
from foreign sources; sales of agricultural commodities, and services/ own fund and
private sector/ non Governmental local contribution. Other complementary funding
mechanisms such as the establishment of an Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) will also
be used, as appropriate.
The government has also committed itself to allocate up to 1.5% of the GDP for
promoting S&T and agriculture will get its due share. Experiences to date show that the
budget requested and allocated for agriculture research is far below this average.
7



Project Appraisal Document                                                         30
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex I-A
Page 8 of 8
Govemmrent commitment to agricultural research ensures that the fiscal implications in
terms of additional recurrent budget for salaries or other operating costs that can arise as a
result of the restructuring of NARS and HRD would not pose a problem.
Project Implementation: Efficient and timely implementation of ARTP would be a
major task for EARO. A detailed project Implementation Manual would provide
elaborate guidance, clearly delineate roles and responsibilities, explain processes and
mechanisms, and specify delegation of financial and administrative powers. Similarly, a
Finance, Budget and Accounts Manual would guide the accounting system for the entire
network of research centers and EARO. A manual as research-extension-farmer linkages
will promote participatory approaches in research planning and technology dissemination.
All these manuals are in final stages of completion and will be adopted before August
1998.
Conclusion
In recent years, the Government has undertaken important policy reforms which should
promote growth and reduce poverty. It is, however, recognized that substantial further
progress is needed to meet the challenges of year 2000 and beyond. This will require
greatly strengthened capacity of the national agricultural research system. The
Government believes that the implementation of the above measures, concurrent with
ongoing improvements in the policy environment, will bring about accelerated
agricultural technology development and adoption and hence promote widespread
growth, poverty reduction and the conservation of natural resources and bio-diversity.
The Government also believes that implementation of the proposed Agricultural Research
and Training Project and further strengthening of the Ethiopian Agricultural Research
Organization will play an important role in realizing the intended overall development
objectives of the Ethiopian Government.
S anAhmed
4    Mi ster,  inistry of Finance
8



Project Appraisal Document                                                            31
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Page 1 of 3
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Introduction:
1.    The Project seeks to make the Ethiopian agricultural research system more efficient, productive
and sustainable by: (i) building institutional capacity to manage the entire agricultural research system;
(ii) rationalizing the way the programs are identified, designed and prioritized according to an acceptable
economic criteria; (iii) improving their relevance through decentralization, stakeholder consultation and
establishment of strong research-extension-farmer linkages; (iv) drawing on the relevant pool of
knowledge available internationally; (v) consolidating and strengthening the existing research centers;
(vi) based upon appropriate feasibility studies, expanding research facilities into less favorable agro-
ecological settings, characterized by poverty and resource-poor farming systems; and (vii) building
human resource capacity in collaboration with the Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA). The
Project would help create a conducive institutional environment, address gender issues and ensure that
appropriate incentives are offered to researchers to attract and retain them in the research system.
2.    This project would be the second phase of a longer term program of agricultural research
development in Ethiopia.
Implementation Period
3.     Six years.
Project Components
4.    The Project has three components:
Component I - Agricultural Research Management;
Component 2 - Strengthening of the Agricultural Research System; and
Component 3 - Human Resource Development.
Component 1: Agricultural Research Management ($15.8 million)
5.    This component will assist in:  (i) operationalizing the national level, apex, autonomous
Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO) created under a proclamation of the Ethiopian
Parliament dated June 5, 1997, to make agricultural research more efficient, cost-effective and relevant
to the development needs of the country. [For details, see PAD Block 1, paragraph 4(i)]; (ii) designing
and implementing a decentralized agricultural research system based upon a participatory and client-
driven approach; (iii) finalizing and implementing new systems and procedures for coordinated and
efficient agricultural research management; (iv) organizing annually a National Agricultural Research
Workshop for all stakeholders to review past year's successes and problems and help finalize next year's
work plan; (v) developing and implementing a strong program of research-extension-farmer linkages to



Project Appraisal Document                                                                32
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
ensure efficient and rapid transfer of on-the-shelf and newly generated technology; (vi) establishing an
efficient information and documentation system, using telecommunications and computing facilities, for
all research entities and ensuring adequate linkages between various research centers within the country
as well as with external research entities of excellence; (vii) addressing gender related issues; and (vii)
creating and operationalizing an Agricultural Research Fund.
6.     The Project would finance the cost of studies, surveys, preparation of various manuals and work
procedures, need-based training on managerial, technical, financial, accounting and economic aspects of
the programs, organization of workshops and farmers' field days, installation and periodical updating of
telecommunications and networking facilities, including electronic library, vehicles, computers, foreign
travel and expenses linked to scientists exchange visits, evaluations by external reviewers, as well as by
local peer reviewers. In addition, the Project would finance study tours, technical assistance and part of
the operating costs. The Project would also finance the establishment of a research data system and a
management information system, linking up the entire EARS. The Project will not fund any EARO staff
salaries, which will remain the responsibility of the borrower, but would finance the upgrading of EARO
office facilities and procurement of vehicles and consultant's services to design and supervise the
procurement of works, goods and services. In summary, the Project will provide $3.8 million to support
the establishment and efficient functioning of EARO, $5.5 million for the modernization of the
information and documentation network of the EARS, $5.0 million for strengthening of research-
extension-farmer linkages, and $1.5 million for the establishment of an Agricultural Research Fund.
Component 2: Strengthening of the Agricultural Research System ($47.1 million)
7.     This component will rehabilitate, modernize and expand the existing agricultural research system
and its infrastructure, to make its operation more efficient and its work environment more conducive to
serious research work, even in inhospitable and remote locations.
8.    The Project would finance the rehabilitation and upgrading of the research infrastructure at 18
existing centers at a cost of $27.6 million. This would include: (a) housing facilities for research staff
(approx. 9,200 sq. meters) at various stations; (b) improved library space and facilities (approx 2,100 sq.
meters); (c) storage (approx. 3,800 sq. meters); (d) office space (approx. 3,000 sq. meters); (e)
laboratories (approx. 1,400 sq. meters); and (f) other facilities like social centers and workshops (approx.
3,400 sq. meters); (f) vehicles to improve the mobility of scientists; (g) farm equipment to improve the
efficiency of operations; (h) laboratory equipment mostly to replace the worn out equipment; and (i)
some furniture. The Project will also finance, on a declining basis, the non-salary operating costs
including expenses on equipment maintenance.
9.     The Project will support a modest beginning in biotechnology research, in addition to, and not in
replacement of, the ongoing conventional research at a cost of $3.8 million. Biotechnology research
would include research on tissue culture at 9 centers and rhizobiology at 6 centers. For advanced genetic
biotechnology research, collaborative linkages will be established with specialized laboratories, and
depending upon the availability of trained human resources , advanced biotechnology research would be
initiated at one selected research center, in order to make it a center of excellence.  Similarly,
biotechnology research in livestock will begin with animal breeding and genetics at one center. EARO



Project Appraisal Document                                                               33
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
will make a detailed action plan for starting this program, together with the details of financial and
human resources to be deployed, and obtain EARB and IDA approval in each case.
10.   In compliance with Government's objective of poverty reduction and equity in regional
development, the Project would support, at an estimated cost of $ 15.6 million, the setting up of six new
research centers to develop technologies for the hitherto uncovered agro-ecological zones, where the
most poor agricultural population lives, and is exposed to frequent and severe weather aberrations. These
resource poor farmers have had no access to any useful technologies so far. The setting up of these
centers would be based on a careful and detailed feasibility study, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, in Project year-1, and the investment proposals would need specific approval of IDA
and EARB.
Component 3: Human Resource Development ($27.7 million)
I1.   This component groups all activities which would strengthen the human resource base of the
agricultural research system by providing technical assistance and training not only for the researchers in
the agricultural research system, but also for the agricultural education system (essentially at the
Alemaya University of Agriculture). Further, the AUA would also be supported in strengthening its
infrastructure to improve its teaching and research facilities and improving its admission and teaching
system to increase the enrollment of the male and female students in the undergraduate and post graduate
classes and to reduce the time currently taken (two to five years) in awarding a masters degree to no
more than two years.
12.   The improvement of teaching facilities would include provision of limited civil works,
laboratory and farm equipment, books and journals, incremental non-salary operating costs, and
improvement of on-campus facilities. Estimated cost $8.8 million.
13    The improvement of the skills of academic staff would include overseas higher education
(Ph.Ds.) for 43 staff members and their effective replacement by expatriate professors hired for the
duration of their absence abroad. Estimated cost $9.5 million.
14.   The improvement of the skills of the research staff at various centers would include overseas
training for 83 staff members (71 Ph.D. and 12 M.Sc.), upgrading the educational qualifications of 501
scientific staff to a post graduate degree and other in-service training programs for the research staff.
Estimated cost $9.5 million.
** *** *** ** ****



34
Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 2-A
1 J  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Z                 <            U
0            LWII                                  L
2  E~~~~~ 
cc 4~~~ 
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* 
E ~    ~     ~     __    _
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



Project Appraisal Document                                                             35
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Page 1 of 2
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Project Component             Local              Foreign              Total
A. Agricultural Research              5.9                7.4                13.3
Management
B. Strengthening of the              11.8               26.3                38.1
Research System
C. Human Resource                     7.4                14.9               22.3
Development
Total Base Line Costs                25.0               48.7                73.7
- physical contingencies              3.6                6.9                10.5
- price contingencies                 2.7                3.7                 6.4
Total Project Costs                  31.4               59.2                90.6



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                            36
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research &  Training Project
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Components by Financiers
(Totals including contingencies, US$ Million)
GOE                            IDA                         [FAD                         Total
A. Agricultural Research                                                                     8.1                          5.1                        15.8
Management
a. Improve the Management Function  EARO                      0                              32
1.0                           4.5                                                        .
b. Improve Info, & Documentation System
- Strengthen the Info. & Documentation's Unit                0.2                            1.3                                                      1.5
- Ensure Connectivity Research Center Level                 0.8                             3.2                                                      4.0
c. Enhance Focus of Agricultural Research                    I1I                             04                                                       6.5
- Ensure linkages with the extension-farmers                 0.9                                                        3.7                          4.6
- Strengthen Linkages Other Organizations                                                   0.4                                                      0.4
- Agrcultural Research Fund                                 0.2                              .                          1.3                          1.5
B. Strengthening of the                                      8.4                            25.6                        13.1                         47.1
Research System
a. Stren0then the Existing Research Centers
51                   ~~~~~~~22.5                    -                          27.6
b. Expand Network to Unserved Agroecologies                   2 5                                                        13.1                         15 6
c. Modermize Research Technology                              0.7                            31                            -                          3.8
C. Human Resource Deve-                                       1.4                          20.0                                                      27.7
lopment
a Streng0hen Alemava University Agriculture       .                                          16.-                                                     18.3
- improve teaching facilities                               1.4                            7.1                                                      8.5
- improve skills of academic staff                                                         9.5                                                      9.5
- improve on-campus facilities                              0.0                            0.3                                                      0.3
b. Improve Skills of Research Staff                                                          95                                                       95
- researchers at research centers                                                          9.2                                                      9.2
- other research system staff                                                              0.3                                                      0.3
Total                                                     12.4



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    37
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Page 1 of 3
Annex 4
Financial and Economic Analysis
Present Value of Flows                 Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis     Taxes           Subsidies
Analysis 
Benefits                   106.9             126.4              nil              nil
Costs                      67.5              77.9              10.4              nil
Net Benefits               39.4              48.5
IRR                        19%                19%
B/C                         1.6               1.6                --
Switching Values
- Costs                    59%               62%
- Benefits                -37%               -38%
Cost Benefit Analysis
Main Assumptions: The economic cash-flow has been computed in constant 1997 prices, expressed in foreign
currency (US$) at border price level. Financial costs in constant prices are set equal to financial costs in current
prices minus price contingencies. Further, the economic costs in current prices have been obtained by allowing for
reduction of the financial costs in constant prices equivalent to the amount of taxes and duties. In economic terms
the project costs are about US$78.7 million equivalent, the economic investment costs is estimated at the equivalent
of US$ 62.9 million, while the recurrent costs would total the equivalent of US$15.8 million during the six project
years.
The development objective of the project is to accelerate the identification, testing and release, and the transfer to
the extension services for adoption by the farmers of improved technologies in crop and livestock production and
natural resource management. This would result in incremental production due to prevention of losses following the
delayed release of technologies in the "without" project scenario, and therefore of increased income for the farming
population at large and in particular the smallholders, both in the high potential areas (highlands) and in the low
potential areas (lowlands).
The analysis of incremental production is, due to a lack of data on livestock production and research, confined to
incremental production of cereals only. The total high potential areas (HPA) is estimated to cover approximately 5.5
million of hectares, while that demarcated as low potential areas (LPA) is presently covering about 1.1 million
hectares. While the HPA would be constrained in the future by its present geo-physical boundaries, that of the LPA
would be subject to increase due to population growth and possible increases in area under irrigation. However, the
increase in LPA cultivated area is not taken into consideration in the assessment of project benefits.
A detailed, focused and prioritized, research plan is not yet available; the development and subsequent
implementation of such a research plan is one of the activities which has to be carried out in Year I of the project. In
the absence of a research plan it has been assumed that most of the output from research focusing on the HPA



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          38
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
would be in the form of "maintenance research", that is research which is to guarantee avoidance of genetical
breakdown of plant material. Further, it is assumed that the benefits in the LPA would be the result of hitertho
lacking appropriate technology but made expressly available the by the project in the form of "farming systems
research", geared to alleviate the production constraints in these areas.
It is further assumed that the application of the technologies of "maintenance research" generated by the project
would not entail any incremental costs of production for the farmers as the farmers who apply the project generated
research would in the "without" project case have applied the conventional improved technology at identical costs.
Indeed, the proposed project would generate new crop varieties to more timely replace the existing varieties which
gradually become increasingly prone to pests and disease following continued use. Application of "farming systems
research" would, on average, entail an increase in economic production costs equivalent to about 20% of the
financial incremental value of production; the incremental production costs are thus obtained by allowing for (a) a
value/cost ratio of 2.5 and a conversion factor of 0.5 (the latter obtained by assuming that half of incremental costs
is labor and shadow cost of, unskilled/off-season, labor is zero).
It is assumed that the benefits from "maintenance" research would be generated starting Year 8 and that the
technologies generated by such research would initially be adopted (through replenishment of seed and adoption of
recommended practices) by 1/5th of the actual 30% adoption rate in the HPA, all of whom are presently using the
improved technological packages; the adoption rate for improved technology is assumed to increase to 36% by
Year 20 "without" the project and all of the benefits will thus be generated in the period beyond the project
implementation. The "likeliest" average period yield for cereals is set at 2 tons per hectare "with" the project, and at
1.8 tons per hectare "without" the project.
It is further assumed that the adoption of "farming systems research" generated technology would start at a level of
0.8% of the LPA area in Year 8 and would gradually evolve to reach 18% in an additional 15 years time span. The
"likeliest" average period yields in the LPA areas is set at 0.9 tons per hectare "with" the project and at 0.7 tons per
hectare "without" the project. Average (economic) farmgate value of cereals is set at US$170 per metric ton based
on import substitution (while cereals are valued at an average of US$200 equivalent per ton at the farngate in
financial terms).
Risk Analysis: A risk analysis (2,500 random trials, Monte Carlo sampling technique) has been performed by (a)
allowing for minimum and maximum values of the parameters described in the foregoing; and (b) assigning
probabilities of occurrence to such events. In the absence of a sufficiently strong data base, the triangular type of
distribution has been applied on all assumptions. Assumptions regarding minimum, likeliest and maximum values
of parameters are summarized in the table below.
The economic analysis reveals that based on the above mentioned economic costs and benefits the internal rate of
return of the project is 19%. The risk analysis reveals a certainty level of about 70% that the economic rate of
return is at least equal to the opportunity cost of capital or 12%, or equally that there is an 70% certainty that the
present value of benefits will equal the present value of costs and that the net present value of the project is at least
zero and the benefit to cost ratio at least 1. A sensitivity analysis, performed on the costs and the benefits, reveals
that the costs increase margin is 59% given a stream of benefits identical to the base case, whereas the benefit
margin is - 37% given a stream of costs identical to the base case. Overall speaking, it can thus be concluded that
the project risk is low to very low, particularly if one considers that potentially substantial benefits deriving from
incremental livestock production were not taken into account.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       39
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Table: Basic Assumptions for Economic Analysis
parameter                      unit            minimum    likeliest   maximum
Yield cereals HPA, with                 tons/hectare          1.8         2.0         2.2
Yield cereals HPA, without              tons/hectare          1.6         1.8         2.0
Yield cereals LPA, with                 tons/hectare          0.7         0.9         1.1
Yield cereals LPA without               tons/hectare          0.6         0.7         0.8
Area cereals HPA                       hectare million        5.0         5.5         6.0
Area cereals LPA                       hectare million        1.0         1.1         1.2
Research period HPA 1st result             year                5           7          9
Research period LPA 1st result             year                5           7          9
Start adoption rate HPA                   % area               4           6          8
Start adoption rate LPA                   % area              0.3         0.8         1.3
Max adoption rate HPA                     % area              12          36          60
Max adoption rate LPA                     % area               6          18          30
Max adoption year HPA                     % area              18          20          22
Max adoption year LPA                     % area              18          20          22
Incremental on-farm costs HPA         % incr. val. prod.       0           0          0
Incremental on-farm costs LPA         % incr. val. prod.       1          20          40



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      40
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(In US$ Million)
Implementation Period                  Operational
.______         _______  ______  _______      Period
1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs              3.5    27.0   26.4    10.6    5.4    0.2             6 years
Recurrent Costs               0.6      2.3    3.3      3.5    3.9    4.0           20 years
Total                         4.0    29.3   29.7    14.1    9.3    4.2
Financing Sources
IDA                                           60.0 (66.3%)                         6 years
GOE                                           12.4 (13.7%)                            ;
IFAD                                          18.2 (20.0%)
Total                                         90.6 (100%)



Project Appraisal Document                                                         41
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Page 1 of 4
Annex 6
Procurement And Disbursement
Procurement
1.    General: Two separate entities would handle procurement under the Agricultural Research and
Training Project (ARTP). These entities are the Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization (EARO)
and the Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA). The EARO would carry out procurement of Works,
Goods, Technical Assistance (TA) and Training (TR), and AUA would handle all of the University's
ARTP related procurement, except Training which would be handled by EARO. Consultants will be
hired to launch and execute the procurement process.
2.    Procurement of Goods and Works will be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995, updated in January and
August 1996 and revised in September 1997. The Borrower will use the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents and standard contracts, for all ICB contracts, as per Bank's procurement Guidelines.
3.    Goods to be procured under the project include vehicles, furniture, office equipment, laboratory
equipment, farm equipment, research-extension linkage and communication equipment, and books and
journals. Goods will be procured by ICB or other procurement methods such as National Competitive
Bidding (NCB), International Shopping (IS) or from IAPSO, Local Shopping (LS) or sole source for
proprietary parts as per Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). This procurement will
be subject to the prior review requirements and thresholds shown in Table B.
4.    Civil Works for improvement/expansion of existing research centers and construction of new
research centers, rehabilitation of EARO Headquarters buildings and facilities and some of the teaching
facilities at AUA will be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement and the thresholds indicated in Table B. Smaller construction packages
below an individual threshold of US$500,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of about US$10 million
equivalent, will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Small works in remote
areas, less than US$30,000 equivalent each, and up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent,
will be procured by fixed price quotations obtained from three (3) qualified contractors. EARO and
NGOs will, however, monitor the communities to ensure that procurement will be carried out in a
transparent and accountable manner.
5.    Consulting services will be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997. Consulting firms
will be procured by the Quality and Cost based selection (QCBS) method. The training services from
specialized institutions will be selected on the basis of their qualifications. The services provided for
will include:
(i)   recruitment of (expatriate) teaching staff for AUA;
(ii)   support to strengthen the management role of EARO; and
(iii)  training, both overseas and in Ethiopia.
6.    Miscellaneous: The project provides funding to cover the (non-salary) costs of operation and
maintenance of the incremental Works and Goods. A variety of procurement methods, acceptable to
IDA, will be used for the items classified under recurrent costs. The methods of procurement would vary



Project Appraisal Document                                                            42
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
from Direct Contracting (for proprietary items such as spare parts), to National Shopping (in the case of
replacements for broken glassware, chemicals, maintenance of works, laboratory and other equipment).
The procurement methods for recurrent costs are summarized under category "Other" in Table A. The
salaries of incremental staff will be borne entirely by the Borrower
7.    The project will make satisfactory arrangements for collection and recording of all procurement
information. These arrangements will lead to prompt reporting to IDA of contract award information by
the Borrower, including submission of quarterly reports. The quarterly reports would include: (a) revised
cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions; and (c) compliance
with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement. The Borrower would also submit a
completion report within three months of credit closing date.
8.    Prior review thresholds (see Table B).
9.    Procurement Plans: At negotiations, two standard bidding documents for ICB/NCB (one for
Works and one for Goods), as well as a Global Procurement Plan (GPP) and a Detailed Procurement Plan
(DPP) for Project Year One were agreed. The annual procurement plan for PYI shows the processing
time for the various steps of the procurement process. Three months prior to the start of each subsequent
year, the EARO would submit up-dated versions of consolidated GPP and annual DPPs for the following
year.
Disbursement
1.    General: The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of six years. An
additional period of four months would be granted to settle for the expenditures incurred before the
closing date of the project. Table C summarizes the allocations of the proceeds of the proposed credit.
The annual estimated disbursements for the Bank's fiscal years 1999-2005 are as follows:
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$Million)
FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05
Annual              1.6   12.5  20.0  14.2   7.8   3.5   0.4
Cumulative          1.6   14.1  34.1  48.3  56.1  59.6  60.0
2.    Statement of Expenditures:  Disbursement for all expenditures would be against full
documentation, except for the items of expenditure under contracts and purchase orders which have a
value below US$ 100,000 equivalent for which disbursement would be made on the basis
of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation on SOEs would be retained by the
Borrower for review by IDA staff during supervision.
3.    Special Account: To facilitate disbursements, three special accounts (SAs) would be opened.
Special Accounts A and B (SA/A and B) would be opened by the Ethiopian Agricultural Research
Organization (EARO) at the Central Bank of Ethiopia (or at a commercial bank) under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Special Account C (SA/C) would be opened by the Alemaya University
of Agriculture (AUA), governed by identical conditions as SA/A and B. Upon credit effectiveness, a
sum of US$1.0 million would be deposited by IDA into SA/A, and US$0.3 million into SA/B and C



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                             43
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
each.  Special Accounts will be replenished on the basis of reimbursement claims for eligible
expenditures received by IDA.
4.         Audit: The Project Accounts (PAs), SOEs and SAs, would be audited by the Ethiopian Auditor
General, or any other independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditors' reports and certificates in
respect of each of these statements of accounts would be furnished to IDA within six months of close of
the fiscal year.
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements and by Expenditure Category
(US$ Million)
Expenditure Category                      ICB             NCB            Other             N.B.F'                TotaP
1. Works
- new construction                              2.5             9.9             0.5                8.5                 21.4
(2.2)3           (9.0)           (0.4)               -                  (11.5)
- rehabilitation                                                0.3                                                     0.3
(0.2)       .                                          (0.2)
2. Goods
-vehicles                                        5.5              -             0.3                1.3                  7.1
(4.6)                          (0.2)                                   (4.8)
-equipment 4/                                   11.5             1.2            0.4                2.4                 15.5
(9.6)           (1.0)           (0.3)                                  (10.9)
- other goods S/                                1.1              1.1            1.1                0.8                  4.1
(1.0)           (1.0)          (1.0)                                   (3.0)
3. Services
- technical assistance                           -                             10.7. 6/            2.0                 12.7
(10.7)                                 (10.7)
-training                                        -                -             11.0               0.9                 11.9
(11.0)                                 (11.0)
4. Miscellaneous
- incremental salaries & wages                    -               -                                0.6                   0.6
- incentives/awards                                       -               -                        0.6                   0.6
-other recurrent costs                            -               -            11.7 /              4.7                  16.4
(7.5)                                  (7.5)
Total                           20.6             12.5           35.7               21.8                 90.6
.  ________________                                 (17.5)          (11.3)          (31.2)       _ _____                    (60.0)
I/         IFAD (US$1S.2 million) and Govt. (US$3.6 million) financing.
2 /        Totals do not tally due to rounding
31         Valua in brackets refer to financing by IDA
, /       Includes office equipment, furniture, laboratory equipment, information and documentation equipment.
' /       Includes research-enesion linkage equipment. farm equipment and tentbooks & jourmals
a I         refers to (invited) visiting scientists from abroad
Tbis would be subject to a ceiling of no more thIn $3M in any single year;
tbe fisancing percentage would decline from PY4 an in Table C.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             44
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Table B  Thresholds for Prior Review and Procurement Method by Expenditure Category
for IDA Credit and IFAD Loan
Expenditure Category            Contract Value            Procurement Method         Contracts Subject to Prior
Review
1. Works                         $500,000 and above                  ICB                  US$500,000 and above
below $500,000                   NCB
2. Goods                         $200,000 and above                  ICB                    $200,000 and above
below $50,000                IS otr IAPSO                     None
3. Services                     US$ 100,000 and above               QCBS                   $100,000 (for firms)
below US$ 100,000                                       $50,000 (for individuals)
below US$ 50,000              By Qualifications
$200,000 and above for
application of sub-para two of
para 2(a) of Appendix I of the
Guidelines
4. Miscellaneous                       None                         Others                       None
Note: All TOR and sole source contracts will be subject to prior review; Review of TOR all contracts, review of sole
source all contracts. Full review for individuals above US$ 50,000 and firms above US$ 100,000.
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds IDA
(US$ Million)
Expenditure Category                 IDA                 Financing Percentage
1. Works                                     I0U
- incremental                             10.0                    90% of total
- rehabilitation                           0.2                    90% of total
2. Goods                                     16.6
- vehicles                                 4.2                  100% FC, 85%LC
- equipment                               10.7                  100% FC, 85%LC
- other goods                              1.7                  100% FC, 85%LC
3. Services                                  19.1
- technical assistance                     9.5                    100% of total
- training                                 9.6                    100% of total
4. Miscellaneous                             fi&
- incremental recurrent costs             6.5          100% for PYI, PY2 and PY3 and
50% thereafter
6. Unallocated                                7.6
Total                         60.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      45
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
FY96                                                   $ 40.9                  35.5
FY97                                                   $159.0                  132.9
FY98 to March 31, 1998                                 $237.7                  185.8
$437.6                 354.2
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project: seven (7) months (first draft)
First Bank mission (preparation)                     04/24/1997             04/24/1997
Appraisal mission departure                          09/01/1997             09/22/1997
Negotiations                                         11/17/1997             03/10/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        05/30/1998             09/30/1998
Prepared by: The Government of Ethiopia with the assistance of several task forces. The preparation was
supervised by a Steering Committee comprising of Dr. Beyene Kebede (Chairman), Dr. Efrem Bechere and
Dr. Getenet Gebeyehu, as members. The Project proposal was prepared by a multi-disciplinary team of six
professionals drawn from different institutions/regions: Dr. Asnakew W/Ab (Chairman), Dr. Tekalgne
Mamo, Ato Alie Hasen, Ato Teferi Mamo, Ato Regasa Ensermu and Dr. Hailu Tefera. Another Task
Force under the Chairmanship of Dr. Getenet Gebeyehu, with Messrs. Tesfaye Kumsa, Kelsa Kena and
Amare Belaye, as members, prepared proposals for the establishment of new research centers, and
rehabilitation of existing centers. The Manual on Finance, Budget and Accounts was prepared by Messrs.
Mohamed Umer (Chairman) and Ibrahim Hasen. The Manual of Research-Extension-Farmer Linkages
was prepared by Ato Beyene Seboka (Chairman), Ato Degene Abesha and Ato Teklue Tesfay. The ten-
year Human Resource Development Plan was prepared under the Chairmanship of Dr. Efrem Bechere,
with Dr. Habtu Assefa and Ato Shimelis W/Hawariat, as members. The Project Implementation Manual,
EARO's Organization and Management Document, and Procurement Manual were prepared under the
leadership of Dr. Beyene Kebede with inputs from several of the individuals mentioned above.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant US$525,000
Bank staff who worked on the project: Task Team Leader: Amar Jit S. Sodhi. Task Team Members:
Lorenzo Marchesini (Agricultural Economist/Financial Analyst), Shiv Singh (Sr. Agriculturalist),
Daryoush Kianpour (AFTC5), Mohamood A. Noor (SPAAR), Franscesco Sarno ( Sr. Procurement
Specialist), Berhane Manna (Operations Officer, RM), Harit Wahdhawan (Research Analyst, RM), Sidi
Boubacar (Senior Counsel), Paul Vandenheede ( Sr. Disbursement Officer), Donna Criddle (Operations
Analyst), Bhagwanti Khushalani (Operations Analyst), Zenobia Raghunandan (Task Assistant)
Quality Review Team:: Surendra Agarwal (AFTS 1), Graeme Donovan (AFTA 1), Jacob Kampen
(AFTA I - Research Advisor), Sunil Bhattacharya (ECAVP), Jitendra Srivastava (AGRAF), Akbar Noman
(AFTM2), Alfred Thieme (HRSLL). Edgardo Quisumbing (AFTA 1) also provided comments.
IFAD Staff and Consultants: Howard Johnson, Ian Walton, Busa Badasa and Thomas Jorgensen
participated in Project Appraisal. Howard Johnson and John Gicharu reviewed the draft Project Appraisal
Document. John Gicharu participated in the negotiations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     46
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Documents prepared by he Borrower:
1.     Review of the Agricultural Research System and Recommended Future Directions, Part I,
July 1996
2.     Agricultural Research and Training Project Proposal, September 1997 (revised version)
3.     EARO - Organization and Management, Vol. I (September 1997)
4.     Human Resource Development; 3 volumes (October 1997)
5.     Project Implementation Manual, November 1997 (revised version)
6.     Finance, Budget and Accounting Manual, November 1997
7.     Research-Extension-Farmer Linkage, November 1997
8.     Procurement Arrangements and Schedule, November 1997
9.     Human Resource Development, Volume 1 (Revised January 1998)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.     Lorenzo Marchesini, AFTA2, Working Paper on the Financial and Economic Aspects,
May 9, 1997
2.     Shiv Singh, AFTA2, Working Paper on Organization and Technical Aspects
3.     S.P. Rai (Consultant), Working Paper on Human Resources Development
4.     Dr. M.V. Rao (Consultant), Working Paper on Agricultural Education and the Alemaya
University of Agriculture
5.     Environmental Data Sheet
6.     Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire with Annexes, dated May 14, 1997
7.     Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire with Annexes, dated October 9, 1997
C. Other
1.     Study to Establish Benchmark Input For The Economic Analysis, 3 Volumes, September 1997
(Consultant's Report)
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     47
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 9
Status Of Bank Group Operations In Ethiopia
Statement Of Bank Loans And IDA Credits
As of March 31, 1998
(US$ million)
Loan or           Fiscal                                                         Closing
Credit No.        Year   Purpose                Bank   IDA        Undisbursed   Date
Active Projects
18730             1988   Education VII                   70.0     13.9           09/30/98
21030             1990   Market Towns Dev.               40.2      14.0          06/03/99
21610             1990   Second Addis Urban D            35.0      18.0          06/30/99
24380             1993   Road Rehabilitation             96.0     52.9           09/30/98
24880             1994   Calub Energy Dev.               74.3     64.7           12/31/00
27400             1995   Nat. Fertilizer Proj.           120.0    83.9           12/31/00
27410             1995   Nat. Seeds Proj.                 22.0    17.5           12/31/00
28410             1996   ESRF 1                          120.0    98.1           12/31/01
28420             1996   Water Supply Dev.               35.7     27.6           06/30/00
30190             1998   Energy II                       200.0    196.8          01/31/04
30320             1998   Road Sector Dev. Prog.          309.2    302.5          05/31/03
Total                                           0.00    1122.4   889.9
Twelve (12) Loans and Forty-nine (49) credits closed.  108.6    1367.9   20.2
Total                            108.6   2490.3
of which repaid                 108.6    102.2
Total Held by Bank and IDA        0.00   2388.1
Amount Sold      6.04
of which repaid   6.04
Total Undisbursed                                  910.1



Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 10
Paee 1 of 2
Ethiopia at a glance                                                              8/28197
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan    Low-
Ethiopia    Africa  Income       Development diamond,
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       58.1       600    3,229
GNP percapita 1996 (USS)                              110       490      500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilDions US$)                                6.4      294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (XO)                                      2.1        2.7      1.7     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.3        2.6      1.7     per          A  <              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urbanpopulation(%6 oftotalpopulation)                  13        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       49        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bifths)              112        92       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             47
Access to safe water (% of populafion)                 27        47        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   65        43       34                Ethiopia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populabion)  27        72       105
Male                                                 33        78      112                Lwicm  ru
Female                                               21        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions USS)                             ..      6.7       5.4      6.1
Gross domestic investment'GDP                  ..      9.0      16.3    20.5              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..     8.2       14.4     12.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..      1.0       6.8      7.6
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..      3.4      14.0     14.2
Current account balance/GDP                    ,.    -5.6       -1.6     -7.5                                 Inetmn
Interest payments/GDP                         ..       0.6       1.1      1.4     Savings        .            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    30.3       95.9     82.6
Total debt service/exports                    7.3    28.4       19.1     33.7
Present value of debtGDP                      ..        ..      63.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ..    425.0                           Indebtedness
1976-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                     Ethiopia
GDP                                   ..      2.3     5.4       12.4      5.9               Low-income group
GNP per capita                        ..    -0.3       3.1       9.5      2.9
Exports of goods and services        ..    -2.2       10.2       8.9      8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1995    1996       Growth rates of output and investment (
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..    53.2                         100
Industry                                      ..    12.7                           50
Manufacturing                                ..      7.2        ..       ..                    .
Services                                      ..    34.1          ..       ..      o0                       9
"-f 92   93   94   95   96
Private consumption                            ..    84.6       82.4     81.1     -s5o
General government consumption                ..    14.4        10.8     11.3               --GDI    +GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    16.2       23.9     25.7                                              1
1975-85  1986-96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..      2.5       3.4     17.5    100
Industry                                      ..    -2.6         8.1      8.5     ao                  X
Manufacturing                                ..    -3.1        9.0      9.2      60/
Services                                      ..       5.4       7.2      7.1     40 
Private consumption                                    5 2.9     3.9      9.0     - 2       
General government consumption                ..    -4.9         2.7     17.9     40i
Gross domestic investment                     ..      6.0       13.8    41.2    .60
Imports of goods and services                 .,      0.5        6.9     29.0               - Exports  I -mports
Gross national product                        ..      2.2        6.0     12.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Agricultural Research & Training Project
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996    1996
Domestic prices                                                                   Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                              6.6      19.1      13.4      0.9
ImplicitGDPmpdeflator                          ..    29.5       14.0      1.3 20
Government finance                                                                10
(% of GDP)                                                                        o
Current revenue                                ..    16.8       17.1     17.6            91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                         ,      -2.7       1.5      1.0              -'-"GDP def. +CP[
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -11.3       -8.1     -8.3
TRADE
1976     1986      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                          230      359       454      410      1,W00
Commodity 1: Coffee                          ..    225         288      273
Commodity 2: Leather and leather products    ..      46         60       49
Manufactures                                 .          .       ..               1,000
Total imports (cif                           276      975      1,064    1,413
Food                                         ..    283         181      215       soo -     * *                  I
Fuel and energy                              ..    186         169      215
Capital goods                                .,    249         334      460           ____________- ___ +IL
Export price index (1987=100)                 ,.       96       116       96            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                 ,,    101         105      109                  a Exports   mlmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ,.      95       110       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                330      549       784      783
Imports of goods and services                409    1,082      1,273    1,646                              9 r  4f:&~
Resource balance                             -79     -533       -488     -863     - -:,'                            _
-2
Net income                                   -17      -33        -60      -43
Net current transfers                         45      193       459      446
Current account balance,                                                            {                Li
before official capital transfers           -52    -373        -90    -460       3.
Financing items (net)                         45      420       146      515                                         L
Changes in net reserves                        7      -48        -56      -55    -0
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          315      216       550      878
Conversion rate (local/US$)                    ..      2.1       6.3      6.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1996    1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         344    2,027      5,221    5,059
IBRD                                        69       49         0        0                 F   189
IDA                                         73      437      1,470    1,555                330
B
Total debt service                            25      159        155     278                                   55E
IBRD                                         9        7         4        0
IDA                                          1        6        23       25
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             35      514       475                      E
Official creditors                          65      276       194      165            2021
Private creditors                           -3       59       -49      -70
Foreign direct investment                   19        0         7        0                              D
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0        0                             964
World Bank program
Commitments                                 71       32       142      156      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               26       50        84      142      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         4        7        12       14      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                    22       43        72      127
Interest payments                            6        7        11       11
Net transfers                               16       36        61      116
Development Economics                                                                                             8/28/97
Note: The debt data excludes a substantial amount of ruble-denominated military debt



IBED 29555
35                                                                                                                      45z~I43N 
'9                    ~~~~         ~~~~~~R ed                             1 5-
15                               '                        )R2,LA               /  7'         >,                                    REPUBLIC~                                                                                       REP. OF YEME
S ,U DA N                                W-Adal/                              Ada~                                                        O
2                          "          .                                                     ~~~~~~                 ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S U D AN  *-D ,   "I
N' 
SEKOTA
Dobro  ROILEKOSIE,NKA  -"4'  A  FAR                                                                                          d rie Aobo-bOMLI
PAWE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 SHKE, 
(_,"ADET ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    eoohoN  IHJLI A 
"'NV''.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fine 
6Kur-k                                      D.                                                                                                                                   I&b'I
/   s'-f  U                            "4             *       WV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rRER  DH4LEMATA
K                         -: /R1,R~~~~~~~~R3TENO<                              WA ~~~~~~0ETHIOPIA
/Ath.  XHARA4I  ~~~~~                                                                 AGRICULTURAL RSAC
e" T.Ure1                                                                                                                                      AND TRAINING PROJECT
jCA"mBEai <                                                                      UMSA Rutjioe
K    LJWMSA     )                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y .            FEDERAL RESEARCH CENTERS
- ~    AROBD(G        r-  K- {sl
N.  OoHg                   -        *               -      rR                    M    YAS                                                  AL4,A                                                              REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
JIMARO IY                                                                             0MAl
TepiD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oshomets  SiNjA                                                                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ UNIVERSiTY RESEARCH CENTERS
A                     -                                                                                           "                                0~~~~~~~~~   W'. P[  PROPOSED FEDERAL RESEARCH CENTERS
"'4'                         4 Soo        tOrt*    <~  ~dobe~                                                                                     DubulA                                          ASPHALT, ALL WEATHER ROADS
S.N .N-PRR.S,- L,{~"4                              I;                                                                                                                                            GRAVEL, ALL-WEATHER ROADS
'1  0Mo I  ' CHenoho0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  , 40  \,r                                              ,""'                                                ES~~~~~~~~~~~~RRAL AND! OR DRY-WEATHER ROADS
JNH I'-'%iE                                                     -                                 G       eIHRo                                                                    SFLECTED   TOWNS
N  -  Odoleo  2' F            '.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        /                                                         STATE / REOION  SNOPFICIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAT /RE994 UNFFOJNDAH94IES)ARES
,~~~,. .9'..  Ne~~~~~~~~eIe0                                     A ~~~~~~R~~~tsl0h.I/ ~~~~~ S  0   M   A  L I A                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR'ES
5"                                                                                                                                         - - - - --~1' ~   33II~j- 
YALELLLL0                                     A,"                                                                                        LIIt33
1-                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo9g,-    6                                                                                                                            T<i, ooprd-ed byA6M., 03et,g,, U~i.4 ao h Word Ho-k.
UGANDA                                   ~'".,                                                                                                                                                                          .opSoi/oApr4T410, oSri~01
MAY 1998



