                                             Ethiopia
                          AgriculturalResearch andTrainingProject
                                      (CreditNo. 3092-ET)
                 Proposed Amendmentof the Development CreditAgreement


BACKGROUND

1.      TheAgriculturalResearchandTrainingProject (ARTP) (Cr.3092-ET)wasdesigned to
strengthen and improve the Ethiopian agricultural research system through infrastructure
development, human capacity building and re-orientation of the research systemtobetter    meet
farmer needs and priorities. ARTP was approved by the Board on June 9, 1998, declared
effective onFebruary4, 1999 and is scheduledto close on March31,2005. ARTP isjointly
financedby IDA under a Credit of SDR44,500,000 (USD 60 million equivalent), andIFAD loan
of USD 18.2million equivalent. The Government of Ethiopia's contribution underthe Projectis
USD 12.4 million.To date, approximately USD37 million of the IDACredithas been disbursed.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCEOF ARTP

2.ImplementationofARTPhasbeensuccessful.TheProjectiscurrently                 rated satisfactory
and the Project's planned activitiesare either under way or have been completed. Training
activitiesand provision of research equipment for the Ethiopian Agricultural Research
Organization (EARO) and Alemaya University have progressed more quickly than anticipated.
Delays have been experiencedin the construction of some civil works. All planned activities are
expected to be completedby the end of the Project.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTSOF ARTP

3.A       Mid TermReview(MTR)forARTPwasundertaken in Mayand July of2002.The
MTR confirmed that implementation has been satisfactory and recommended several
amendmentsto the Development Credit AgreementD C A In responseto the MTR, the DCA
was amended (in March, 2003) to reflect a reallocation among expenditure categories and
changesto certain disbursement percentages, Special Account limits, and one dated covenant.
The proposed amendmentshererepresent the remainingMTR recommendations. The proposed
amendments, though substantive, would not fundamentally alter the purpose of the Project and
are intended to facilitatesuccessful implementationof the Project. The amendments proposed in
this regardare outlined in the following paragraphs.

4.Clarification       in theFocus of theProjectDevelopment objective. It is proposed to modify
the Project's Development Objective in order to focus more directly on objectives associated with
the investmentactivitiesunder the Project. The Project Development Objective (PDO), as
presentlyworded, focuses on a broadset of outcomes whichare dependenton many factors that
fallbeyond the scopeof the activities implemented under the Project. In particular,the
agricultural researchactivitiesto be upgraded through the activities and investments of the
Project wouldprovide one necessarybut not sufficient conditionto ensurethe increases in
agricultural production andyields which are targeted in the PDO. The Borrower, at the time of
the MTR, requestedthat the focusof the PDObe clarified in orderthat the Project mightbe fairly
evaluated against the actual controllable outputitsofinvestments and activities,i.e. that it might
be evaluated accordingto its success in bringing about the modernization and enhancementof the
efficiency and effectiveness of the Ethiopian agricultural research system and related agricultural
higher education programs.

                                               - 2 -



5.      It should be notedthatprojectimplementationhasproceededsmoothly,project
performance has been satisfactory, and the proposed modificationschangeneither the purpose of
the Project,nor the nature or scope of the Project's activities,but are intended to ensure that the
wording of the PDOis consistent with the scopeof the Project.

6.      Adjustment in theProjectDescription to IncludeRegionalResearchCenters. It is
proposed to modifythe Project description for clarity in the activities carried out under. the first
and second components of the Project. Under the first component, Agricultural Research
Management, it is proposed to include support for decentralized research activitiesaspart of the
Project in the Project Description. Under the second component of the Project, Agricultural
Research System, the proposed amendmentis intended to ensure initial support to newly
establishedregional agricultural research institutes.

7.       Sincethe design of the ARTP, regional governments have begun to take on responsibility
for local research activitiesthrough the establishment of Regional Research Centers. This
represents adesirabledecentralizationof research activities, a developmentthat was envisioned
as one output of the Project and for which EARO's de-concentrated structure has helpedto pave
the way. The proposed amendmentto the ProjectDescription would not significantly alter the
scope of Project activities, but would make agricultural research investments (including
equipment andmaterialsbut excluding civil works) and activitiesat the Regional Centers, as well
as the cost of supportive technical assistance fromEARo and other capable entities, eligible for
financing underthe Project.

8.      Adjustments in FinancingArrangements.During the MidTermReview(MTR), it was
recommended that the financing of expenditure under eligible categoriesbe modified in order to
accommodate upwardly revised cost estimates for six new research centersin pastoralist areas. A
reallocationfor thispurpose has been effected under the Letter of Amendment dated March 19,
2003. Spending under the Project wasalsorationalizedto source financing under the IDA Credit
for certain activities,which were indicated forFAD's financing. Under the recommendationsof
the MTR, most ofFAD'scommitment would nowbe exclusively focused on the expensesto be
incurred in the construction of the six research centers in pastoralistareas. Under the proposed
amendment, IDA'sresponsibilitywould be expanded to include financing sub-components
originallyscheduled to be financed byIFAD in the areasof capacity building, training, operating
costs, research-extension linkage activities and the Agricultural Research Fund. The amendment
would thus accommodate some expenditure switching between two         of the partners.

9.      It is alsoproposedto amendtheexpenditurecategories withrespect to operatingcosts.
Duringthe MTR, the Borrower requested full financingof operatingcosts in the remaining years
of the project. In response, the Amendment of March19,2003raised the percentageof financing
of operatingcosts eligible for IDA financing from  50percent to 80percent in project years four
and five. The Borrower found this insufficient and has again requestedfull financing of operating
costs. In orderto maintain counterpart funding for operating costs,it isproposed to increase the
percentage of operating costs eligiblefor IDA financingto 90 percent.

10.     The adjustmentsin financingarrangementscanbe coveredthrough cost savingsrealized
in other IDA financed components of the Project.It is expectedthat allProject activities would
be fully implementedby the
                date.
                completion
                 scheduled

11.     Modificationto ProcurementProcedures.Theprocurementproceduresestablishedunder
the Project haverestrictedimplementation of the Project, specifically in relationto procurement

                                              - 3 -


of goods. Standard procedures whichare available within the Bank's procurement guidelines
(butnot originally included in the procedures authorized for this Credit) would facilitate a number
of ongoing procurement processes. These include the Bank's National Competitive Bidding,
National Shopping, and International Shopping Guidelines. The proposed amendment would
permit the Borrowerto procure goods through these procedures in additionthetoprocurement
procedures establishedin the DCA.

12.     Costs,Benefitsand Risks after Amendments. Each of the recommended amendments was
fully discussed between the Bank's project team and representatives of the Borrower andis
consistent withthe recommendationof the MTR mission toIDA management. The proposed
changes to the Projectwill not alter project assumptions or risks. The Project's purpose and
activitiesremain essentiallyunchanged by the proposed amendment. The purpose of the
proposed amendmentis to facilitate implementationof the Project, andto provide greater clarity
in the statement ofobjectivesand activities. Each of the changesis in directresponse to
implementation bottlenecks experienced during implementation of specific Project activities.

13.     The proposedamendmentwouldnotrequireadditionalimplementationarrangements.
The Project's existingmonitoring arrangements willalsobe adequateto measure progress in
implementation of the activitiesin the proposed amendment.

