Report No. PID676
ProjNect Name                    Ethiopia-Agricultural Research and   @    (
Training Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       ETPE733
Borrower                         Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementation Agency            Ethiopia Agricultural Research
Organization (EARO)
Address (In process of being established)
Environment Category             C
Date of Initial PID              March 20, 1997
Date of This PID                 August 18, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         September, 21, 1997
Projected Board Date             February, 1998
A.      Background
Country and Sector Background
1.      Ethiopia is a populous country of 56.5 million people. An
estimated 52 percent live below the poverty line with a 1995 per
capita income of US$100, making it one of the poorest countries in
Africa. Life expectancy is about 49 years. The infant mortality
rate is 118 per 1,000 live births and 47 percent of children under
5 years of age are malnourished or weigh less than acceptable
standards for their age. Population growth is over 3 percent per
year, which absorbs most gains in economic growth and seriously
impairs improving nutrition, education, health care, and
contributes to Ethiopia's ecological degradation. One of the major
bottlenecks in the Ethiopian Agricultural Research System has been
the shortage of trained manpower at a higher level, both in formal
long-term curriculum and in informal short-term or on-the-job
training. Scientists with expertise in dryland and irrigation
agronomy, physiology crop growth and genetics, among other fields,
are in short supply. Salaries and incentives are low, which limit
retaining staff who have been trained abroad, thereby compounding
the problem.
2.      Agriculture accounts for about 57 percent of GDP, 80 percent
of employment and 70 percent of Ethiopia's raw material requirement
for large and medium-sized agro-industries. The cattle population
in Ethiopia is the largest in Africa and among the top ten in the
world. Many breeds have adapted to the varied climatic conditions
of the country, but their productivity is quite low. While
agriculture stagnated in the 1970s and 1980s because of devastating
droughts, pest infestations, significant land degradation, poor



infrastructure and civil strife, it has responded positively to
recent reforms in the economy as well as in the agricultural sector
from 1991 to 19978. These reforms include decontrol of agricultural
marketing larger use of fertilizer and improved seeds by farmers,
removal of seed and fertilizer subsidies, entrance of private
commercial farms and the lifting of controls on foodgrain prices.
The main reasons for the low crop and animal productivity are low
genetic potentials, inadequate availability and use of improved
agricultural technologies by the majority of smallholder farmers,
mining of soil nutrients, pest infestations, decline in soil
productivity and diseases and parasites in livestock. The potential
for expanding output is mainly through improving irrigation,
agricultural research and extension systems, generating relevant
technologies for various agro-ecological zones and rehabilitating
infrastructure. Higher outputs would reduce chronic food deficits,
increase national and household food security, boost exports and
stimulate growth in agro-processing.
3.      Research and Training Subsector: While the Ethiopian
agricultural research system has undergone a series of changes and
significant progress has been attained in technology production and
adoption, the country's agricultural research capacity to identify,
develop and adapt improved and relevant technologies is not very
strong. Many of the research centers do not have an adequate number
of research staff and facilities, and some ecologies, which have
less favorable rainfall and are inhabited by very poor farmers have
not been covered by research. The agricultural research system now
consists of the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR), regional
research centers, higher learning institutions and several
specialized centers. The relationship among research, extension and
other organizations are almost non-functional. The National
Agricultural Research Policy and Strategy of 1993 indicates the
Government's commitment to remedy the shortcomings in science and
technology research and development. In addition, other related
agricultural and non-agricultural policies have been developed in
the country.
B.      Project Objectives
4.      The development objective of the project is to support
sustained generation/ enhancement of ecologically sound technology
for crop and livestock production systems in Ethiopia; towards this
end, the project will consolidate, strengthen and improve the
Ethiopian Agricultural Research System (EARS) and infrastructure
and provide it with a regional focus, enhanced human resource
capacity and incorporate the participatory approach. The project
achievements would be evaluated by progress in the establishment of
an autonomous, apex national research organization named Ethiopian
Agricultural Research Organization (EARO), decentralization of
powers and responsibilities to regional research centers,
rehabilitation, modernization of existing research facilities and
setting up of some new ones in uncovered agro-ecologies, and
introduction of institutional mechanisms to: (i) build in
participatory approaches to the planning and prioritization of
research; (ii) establish MIS and networking of information systems;
-2 -



(iii) improve research-extension-farmer linkages; (iv) build human
resource capacity; and (v) establish effective linkages
domestically between EARO, federal and regional research stations
and the Alemaya University of Agriculture, and internationally
between EARS and CG centers and other research entities of excellence.
C.      Project Description
5.      The project will include the following components:
Agricultural Research Management:
(i) Develop and implement a methodology for prioritization of
agricultural research programs, in consultation with stakeholders
and beneficiaries, and according to an acceptable economic
criteria; (ii) improve the exchange of research information by
strengthening the agricultural information and documentation
system; (iii) develop and maintain links with research
organizations and institutions of international repute; (iv)
improve the effectiveness of research by strengthening research-
extension linkages; (v) introduce appropriate monitoring
mechanisms, and provide timely and adequate budgetary support to
approved programs; (vi) introduce and maintain an incentive
structure for research staff; and (vi) address gender issues.
Strengthening of the Agricultural Research System
(i) Consolidate, modernize and expand the research
infrastructure; (ii) improve institutional environment for
researchers; (iii) support limited initiative in biotechnology
research; (iv) commence research for less favorable environments
and resource poor farming systems; (v) install and periodically
update electronic communication systems and establish connectivity;
(vi) build a data-base; (vii) install MIS; and (viii) provide
incremental operating costs.
Human Resource Development
Higher quality and increased number of research personnel in
needed disciplines, through strengthening of AUA infrastructure and
facilities, technical assistance and foreign training. Increased
staff training in needed disciplines.
D.      Project Financing
6.      Financing plan (US$million):73.23
Source                   Local              Foreign          Total
Government               US$18.36           US$ 0.00         US$18.36
Cofinanciers
IDA                      US$ 6.74           US$48.13         US$54.87
Other (Specify)
Total                    US$25.10           US$48.13         US$73.23
-3-



E.      Project Implementation
7.      Executing agency (ies): Ethiopian Agricultural Research
Organization (EARO) would be IDA's counterpart agency responsible
for the overall implementation of the project and reporting to IDA
and the Government. However, the responsibility for actual
implementation of various components and sub-components would
reside at three places, viz. (i) EARO; (ii) research centers; and
(iii) Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA). Both the research
centers and AUA would receive funds from and be accountable to EARO
in the implementation of project components
(i) EARO: In the reorganization of the Ethiopian Agriculture
Research System (EARS), which preceded the project preparation, the
Government decided to set up a national level apex organization
(EARO) to promote, coordinate and monitor the development and
effective functioning of the EARS and institutionalize improved
planning procedures; this organization would advise the Government
on all aspects of agricultural research, and be responsible for
implementing agricultural research policy and strategy mainly
through allocation of resources to a country-wide network of
research stations, AUA and other higher learning institutions. It
would also be responsible for developing and maintaining links with
external research institutions of repute and regional and
international agencies. The Parliament has already approved the
establishment of EARO as a legal entity, and a proclamation will be
issued soon. The Government has also prepared a detailed staffing
plan for EARO, and job descriptions are being worked out for
individual positions; the staff of EARO will have capacity to
address the economic (including economic analysis) and social
(including gender ) issues. EARO will be a lean organization. The
office buildings for EARO have already been identified.
8.      EARO would be the focal point for the organization and
management of research as well as channeling all donor assistance
for agricultural research. The proposed Agricultural Research and
Training Project (ARTP) which is a one time slice in the longer
term development of agricultural research in Ethiopia, would also
be finally processed and implemented through this organization. The
Director General, EARO, will be the counterpart of the Task Team
Leader of the IDA funded ARTP, while the respective line
departments would ensure implementation of various activities
9.      The EARO will have a governing body to be called the
Ethiopian Agricultural Research Board (EARB), which will be
directly accountable to the Prime Minister. The Board would be the
highest body responsible for the overall guidance, policy
formulation, priority setting and allocation of resources in the
areas of agricultural research. It will have full powers and
authority over the management of EARO, and will approve annual,
medium and long-term research strategies and programs, and would
ensure effective coordination among all research entities and programs.
10.     The establishment and staffing of key positions in EARO and
in particular the appointment of adequate staff in relevant offices
- 4 -



of EARO to deal with ARTP related tasks, including procurement,
coordination, implementation and monitoring, would be a condition
of credit effectiveness. This list of such staff would be agreed to
during negotiations.
11.     The EARO will: (a) define procedures for stakeholder
consultation and collaboration; (b) prepare a human resource
development Plan, and annually update it, in consultation with IDA;
(c) annually approve the specific research program of each research
center as well as for contract research in accordance with
priorities, available fiscal and human resources, and benefit cost
considerations, and allocate budget; (d) annually evaluate the
cost-effectiveness and relevance of each research activity; (e)
ensure adequate linkages between various research centers and
external research entities of excellence; (f) establish an
efficient information and documentation system, using
telecommunications and computing facilities, for the federal (FRC)
and regional research centers (RRC), as well as for the AUA and
other higher learning institutions which participate in human
resource development and/or collaborative or contract research; (g)
establish arrangements for the transfer of on-the-shelf and newly-
generated technology to the farmers, inter alia, by fostering
strong research-extension linkages; (h) prepare various
operational, financial, accounting and budget manuals for
EARO/FRC/RRC, and ensure adherence of each implementing agency to
the prescribed procedures; and (i) annually evaluate the
effectiveness of the research program. EARO will also prepare by
December 31, 1998, an agricultural research strategy paper and
share it with IDA and other donors. It will also establish
arrangements and capacity within EARO, as well as implementing
agencies, to make ex ante and ex post economic evaluation of
various research proposals, and to review and advise on all gender
related issues.
(ii) Research Centers: Each research center would be
responsible for (a) stakeholder and beneficiary consultation and
collaboration; (b) defining the research agenda and priorities in a
participatory manner, based on farming systems approach; (c)
annually preparing a staffing plan and budget for each research
activity and upon approval, implementing it; (d) ensuring close
linkages with extension agencies; (e) ensuring timely and efficient
implementation of plans under ARTP for strengthening the research
infrastructure; (f) submitting necessary monthly reports and
returns to EARO to help in project monitoring, supervision and evaluation.
(iii) Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA): AUA, as the
principal provider of scientific manpower for EARS, would be the
key implementing agency of human resource development (HRD)
programs, as well as the strengthening of the infrastructure
facilities in AUA. It will also have a procurement cell of trained
staff to handle all procurement cases of AUA under ARTP; and will
send monthly implementation progress reports to EARO. In addition,
it will engage in agricultural research in contract with EARO,
or/and on its own to support practical teaching and guidance to
university students studying various agricultural disciplines
- 5 -



12.     Project coordination: While implementation and monitoring of
various project components will be the responsibility of respective
line departments within EARO, the overall coordination of ARTP will
be the responsibility of the line department in charge of donor
coordination. This department will also be responsible to ensure
that, consistent with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement with IDA, all departments take timely and coordinated
action, and that all reports to and correspondence with IDA is
channeled through this department. EARO will decentralize powers
for making operational expenditures to respective research
entities, who will be provided with budget allocations at the
beginning of each fiscal year. Project coordination will be ensured
at all operational levels -- federal (through EARB\EARO), regional
and research center levels through committees with representatives
from relevant government agencies, beneficiaries, stakeholders,
research entity level and or AUA, as appropriate. The composition
of the regional, research center level, AUA committees will be
agreed upon during appraisal. The formation of these committees
would be a condition of Board presentation.
F.      Sustainability
13.     The project is designed to promote longer term sustainability
by improving the efficiency of resource use and enhancing the
ownership of the research effort. This would include: (a)
developing a capacity in EARO to evaluate the relative quality and
cost-effectiveness of each research proposal; (b) improving the
relevance of research through institutionalized stakeholder and
beneficiary consultation; (c) avoiding overlap and duplication in
research investment inter alia, by assessing information from the
national and international centers through an efficient electronic
system; (d) improving the capacity utilization of the research
infrastructure through timely and adequate funding and staffing of
research centers as well as by systematic monitoring of research
outputs. The institutional sustainability of the project is
enhanced by the evident strong commitment of Government to
agricultural research. Government, under its Science and Technology
Policy is committed to allocate up to 1.5 percent of the country's
GDP to research. According to current estimates, the agricultural
research intensity ration, viz. Government expenditures on
agricultural research (including incremental operating expenses)
would not exceed one percent of the agricultural GDP.
G.      Lessons Learned From Past Operation In The Country/Sector
14.     Lesson 1: Ethiopia Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1521-
ET): The ICR indicated the project implementing agencies should be
given the financial authority to manage resources allocated them,
and adequate systems for financial recording, reporting and
accounting must be in place for efficient functioning of any
institution. Both of these issues have been discussed with the
Borrower and proposals for addressing them will be reviewed by the
appraisal mission. The proposed project also takes into
consideration lessons from the project implementation period which
revealed that a well designed training plan should be prepared
- 6 -



during appraisal for optimum results.
15.     Lesson 2: Bangladesh Agricultural Research and Agricultural
Research and Extension (Crs. 0828-BD, 1215-BD, and 1455-BD). OED's
evaluation indicated that reluctance of the Government of
Bangladesh to depart from traditional civil service norms to create
greater incentives for research performance led to limited
achievements. In Ethiopia, Government has appreciated the ground
realities, and the salary scales of research staff have recently
been revised and are now more than 50 percent higher than their
counterparts in the civil service. ARTP also addresses this issue
by proposing a number of incentives to retain and honor scientific
talent with an award/reward system and career progression mechanism
and extension of the retirement age. Effective coordinating and
planing capacity in the Bangladesh project's implementing agency
was not achieved because other institutions did not accept its
authority. The Government of Ethiopia via a proclamation has
granted EARO full powers to organize and manage the country's
research program with direct accountability to the Prime Minister.
16.     Lesson 3: Brazil Second Agricultural Research (Ln. 2016-BR).
An outward looking policy in a national research institution, as
reflected in a willingness to seek and contract external
experience, to invest heavily in external training and to
collaborate with international research centers, universities and
research entities of excellence, can increase the rate of attaining
a high level of institutional performance. The proposed ARTP
provides for hiring significant numbers of external assistance
(Ph.D. -professors in various disciplines to teach at AUA) and to
train a significant number of M.Scs and Ph.Ds abroad over the next
five years. Further, proposals to establish effective linkages with
IARCs, including through the internet, will be reviewed by the
appraisal mission.
H.      Poverty Category
17.     The principal beneficiary population would be the male and
female small farmers, mostly with holdings of less than two
hectares each; these peasants constitute an overwhelming majority
(around 90 percent) of the farming population; the project,
therefore, qualifies to be included in the program of targeted
interventions. At the same time, since much of the agricultural
technology is scale neutral, it would also be available to and,
therefore, benefit emerging private commercial farms.
I.      Environmental Aspects
18.     Justification/Rationale for category rating of C: Farmers in
Ethiopia are one of the major custodians of its natural resources.
Generating ecologically sound and yield enhancing agricultural
technologies for sustainable use of these resources is one of the
important objectives of the proposed project. The yield enhancing
technologies are intended to relieve pressure on marginal and
degraded lands which are currently being brought under cultivation
by subsistence farmers. Also, participatory on-farm and farming
- 7-



systems research should help stabilize and improve farming in areas
with degraded environments. The project is also expected to address
the soil fertility issues, including soil salinity and alkalinity,
which has already affected a significant percentage of the cropped
land. Research programs financed under the project would improve
the management of soils and water, increase disease and pest
resistance of crops, and thereby reduce the use of chemicals on
crops. Further, the project would include a review process which
would screen out research proposals that could potentially have a
negative environmental impact. The environmental impact of the
project is therefore expected to be positive.
J.      Program Objective Categories
19.     The proposed project will broadly address poverty alleviation
and the environment as discussed above in paras. H and I above.
Women farm workers would also benefit from the generation of new
technologies including post-harvest technology, through design and
development of tools and implements specifically aimed at improving
efficiency and reducing drudgery in those farm operations which are
handled by women. Also, the project would seek to raise the
participation of women in the overall agricultural research effort
through higher recruitment of scientific and support female staff
in the system. Similarly, procedures will be established to ensure
that female students get their due share in the admission to
various agriculture related courses.
K.      Project Benefits
20.     The direct benefits of the project would include:
-- more effective and efficient agricultural research system
with institutions capable of cost effectively addressing
the problems of farmers in the major ecologies of the
country;
-- sustained production of improved technology for
dissemination;
-- improved capacity for higher agricultural education and
training of scientific personnel;
-- a better trained and motivated cadre of agricultural
researchers; and
-- improved research-extension-farmer linkages to facilitate
speedier and more effective transfer of technologies, for
sustainable intensification of agricultural production systems.
21.     These benefits are expected to accelerate generation of
environmentally sound agricultural technologies for sustainable
crop and livestock production systems and natural resource
management; thereby providing stability and resilience to the
agricultural sector to cope with drought and famine situations,
increasing national and household food security, and raising
farmers incomes.
L.      Project Risks
-8-



Risk          Risk Rating      Risk Minimization
Measure
Project outputs     (i) inadequate      moderate        (i) a condition of
to development      motivation and                      Board Presentation to
objectives          problems in the                     put in place a
retention of                        separate salary and
scientific staff                    incentive structure
for scientists and
technicians.
(ii) inadequate                    (ii) specific powers
autonomy of the      moderate      and delegation of
research system,                   authority which
leading to delays                  should be granted to
and discontinuities.               EARO, and research
centers will be
agreed to during
appraisal.
(iii) delays in EARO               (iii) complete as many
getting fully                      actions up front as
established and          high      possible, before
taking charge of the               Board presentation
research system.                   or credit
effectiveness.
Project              (i) inadequate                     (i) obtain clear,
components to        budgetary support for              prior commitment from
outputs              investment and                     Government before
operational expenses     moderate  approving a research
of specific                        program; and maintain
components.                        a credit conditionally.
(ii) expansion of                  (ii) agreed on time
research programs and              bound implementation
centers, without         moderate  of HRD Plan, and
alleviating resource               retain a credit
constraints.                       conditionality.
(iii) delays in                     (iii) EARO to submit
strengthening                       an annual procurement
research centers due     moderate   plan and work program
to administrative and               at least three months
procurement delays.                 prior to the start of
the next fiscal year.
Overall Risk                                  moderate
Rating
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
-9



1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending september 26, 1997.
- 10 -



