Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3092 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Training Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 1998
CREDIT NO 3092 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1998 between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated March 13, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
its agricultural research (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan  to assist in financing of Parts A.3, A.4 and 
B.2 of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ARF” means the Agricultural Research Fund, to be established by the 
Borrower under Part A.3 of the Project to finance agricultural research;
(b)
“AUA” means the Alemaya University of Agriculture;
(c)
“ARF Beneficiary” means an individual, a group of farmers or an 
institution which has received or applied to receive a Research Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part A.3 of the Project for the purpose of carrying out an agriculture 
research activity; and “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, two or more such 
individuals or groups;
(d)
“Birr” means the currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“EARB” means the Ethiopian Agricultural Research Board, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Proclamation No. 79/1997 of June 5, 1997;
(f)
“EARO” means Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization, an agency 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Proclamation No. 79/1997 of June 
5, 1997;
(g)
“Guidelines” means the guidelines establishing rules, procedures and 
eligibility criteria for awarding Research Grants (as hereinafter defined) under Part 
A.3 of the Project;
(h)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(i)
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;
(j)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
7.01 (a) of this Agreement and setting out, inter alia, procedures, guidelines, 
manuals, timetables, and other arrangements for the purposes of carrying out the 
Project;
(l)
“Project Year” and “PY” mean the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(m)
“Research Subproject” means a specific agricultural research activity 
financed, or proposed to be financed, through Research Grants extended, or to be 
extended, under Part A.3 of the Project;
(n)
“Regional Government” means each of the governments of the Borrower’s 
Regions ofTigrai, Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Somali, Benshangul/Gumaz, Southern Nations, 
Nationalities and People's Region, Gambella Peoples’ Region, and Harari People’s 
Region;
(o)
“Research Grant” means a research grant provided or to be provided to 
finance a Research Subproject under Part A.3 of the Project;
(p)
“Research Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
EARO and a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a Research Subproject under 
Part A.3 of the Project; and 
(q)
“Special Account” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Page  3
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-four million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 44,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars three separate special deposit accounts (Special Accounts A, B, and C ) in 
its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits 
into, and payments out of each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 
commencing August 1, 2008 and ending February 1, 2038. Each installment up to and 
including the installment payable on February 1, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
Page  4
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A, B, and C.2 of the Project through EARO, and Part C.1 through AUA, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, agricultural research, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A, B, and C.2 of the Project through EARO, and Part C.1 through 
AUA, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open, and maintain for the duration of the Project implementation, an 
account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to the 
Page  5
Borrower’s estimated share of counterpart funds required for Project implementation 
during the first Project Year, as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association at the beginning of each Project Year (the Initial Deposit), and 
thereafter, at annual intervals, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as 
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) above shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s share of 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect the operations and financial condition of EARO and 
AUA in accordance with sound accounting practices and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause EARO and AUA, respectively:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
Page  6
provisions satisfactory to the Association, for insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, including 
qualified staff for economic and social analysis; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities, equipment and 
other property, and from to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
Section 5.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement, not later than March 31, 1999, the Borrower shall cause EARO 
to adopt a human resource development plan, acceptable to the Association, which shall 
be designed to improve the performance of its staff, including provision of incentives 
to retain qualified research staff.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
the agreements referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
have been executed on behalf of the Borrower, EARO, AUA and Regional Governments, 
respectively; 
(c)
EARO has adopted procedures acceptable to the Association for the 
decentralization of its research activities; 
(d)
the Borrower has: (i) furnished to the Association a draft work program 
and budget for the implementation of the Project during the first Project Year, 
acceptable to the Association, (ii) opened the Project Account referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement, and (iii) made the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 
3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(e)
the positions of Deputy General Managers, Project Coordinator, and heads 
of procurement department and finance and accounting, respectively, of EARO, have been 
filled with persons with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association; 
and
(f)
The Borrower has nominated representatives of at least two Regional 
Governments to serve on the Board of EARO.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  7
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Telex:
21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 MCI or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 MCI
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Berhane Gebre-Christos  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  8
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
90%
(a) under Parts A
  6,100,000
(excluding A.3 and
A.4), and B (exclud-
ing B.2) of the
Project
(b) under Part C.1
  1,400,000
the Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 85%
(a) under Part A
  9,300,000
of local expenditures
(excluding A.3 and
A.4), and B (exclud-
ing B.2) of the
Project
(b) under Part C.1 of
  3,000,000
the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
and training
(a) under Parts A
  8,000,000
(excluding A.3 and
A.4), and B (exclud-
ing B.2), and C.2
of the Project
(b) under Part C.1
  6,100,000
of the Project
(4)
Operating costs
100% for PY1, PY2 and
PY3, and 50% thereafter
(a) under Part A
    500,000
(excluding A.3 and
A.4) of the Project
(b) under Parts B
  3,500,000
(excluding B.2), and
C.2 of the Project
(c) under Part C.1
    600,000
of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
  6,000,000
TOTAL
 44,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  9
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management, auditing and monitoring, including 
office supplies, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, travel and 
supervision costs, and salaries of contractual staff. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not 
exceeding $200,000 equivalent; works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 
equivalent; and services of: (i) consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
and (ii) individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the Borrower’s agricultural 
production and yields, and incomes of farmers, through improved agricultural research 
to assist in achieving sustained generation and enhancement of ecologically sound 
technologies for crop and livestock production systems and natural resource 
management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Agricultural Research Management
1.
Improving the management and operational capacities of EARO, including the 
strengthening of its capacities in research management and Project implementation, 
through: (a) the rehabilitation and repair of office facilities; (b) acquisition of 
vehicles to improve the mobility of EARO’s staff; (c) provision of technical advisory 
services to strengthen EARO’s capacity in: (i) the design and supervision of 
construction works, (ii) procurement and contract management, and (iii) Project 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and (iv) design and prioritization of 
agricultural research; and (d) carrying out training programs to enhance the technical 
skills of EARO’s staff in, inter alia, administration and human resource management, 
planning, financial management, procurement, auditing, and research prioritization.
2.
Preparation of a rolling five-year agricultural research plan and periodic 
updating thereof, and organization of national agricultural research workshops, 
through provision of technical advisory services and training.
3.
Establishment and operations of the ARF through the promotion, design, 
appraisal, supervision, and evaluation of Research Subprojects, and the provision of 
Research Grants for the financing thereof.
4.
Improving farmers’ access to off-the-shelf and new technologies by strengthening 
research-extension-farmer linkages, through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training and acquisition of equipment.
5.
Strengthening the Borrower’s agricultural research information and documentation 
system, including improvement of its linkage with international research entities, 
through provision of technical advisory services and training, and acquisition of 
equipment. 
6.
Carrying out a study of gender-related issues in the Borrower’s agricultural 
research subsector, and preparation and implementation of a program of actions 
designed to increase the participation of women in agricultural research activities 
and to improve the relevance of agricultural research to the specific needs of women 
farmers.
7.
Carrying out a benchmark survey and annual surveys to assess the impact of the 
Project on the Borrower’s farming population.
Page  10
Part B:
Agricultural Research System
1.
Strengthening the management and operations of selected agricultural research 
centers, through: (a) rehabilitation and upgrading of housing facilities for research 
staff and library, office, laboratory, workshops, and social facilities; and (b) 
acquisition of vehicles, laboratory equipment, and office furniture.
2.
Establishment and operation of six agricultural research centers in selected 
agricultural areas not serviced by existing agricultural research centers, through the 
carrying out of civil works, the acquisition of equipment and the provision of 
technical advisory services and training.
3.
Preparation and implementation of research programs in biotechnology at selected 
agricultural research centers, through the construction of laboratory facilities, 
acquisition of equipment, and provision of technical advisory services and training.
Part C:
Human Resource Development
1.
Strengthening the management, teaching and research capacities of AUA through: 
(a) the rehabilitation and upgrading of housing, teaching and research facilities; (b) 
the acquisition of laboratory and farming equipment and specialized publications; and 
(c) the carrying out of training programs designed to improve the skills of its 
academic staff, including training abroad for selected academic staff, and provision 
of technical advisory services for the replacement of said academic staff.
2.
Improving the skills of staff of agricultural research centers through the 
carrying out of in-service training programs, in-country and abroad.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  11
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to 
exceed $3,000,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured: (i)  as an extension of an existing contract, or 
(ii) must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment, or (iii) are of a proprietary nature, or (iv) must be procured from a 
particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee, and costing $500,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and office equipment estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent, 
per contract, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 
or more, and the first two contracts for goods and works, regardless of their 
estimated cost the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, per contract, under 
Part C.1 of the Project may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Subprojects under Part A.3 of 
the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the 
Association.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  13
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
non-governmental organizations estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
non-governmental organizations estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
EARO shall be responsible for the coordination of the implementation of the 
Project, under the oversight of EARB. For this purpose, EARO shall, not later than 
June 30, 1998, establish, and maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project 
Coordination Unit, headed by a Project Coordinator, and with staff whose 
qualifications shall at all times be satisfactory to the Association, including a 
procurement specialist, a human resource development specialist, an agricultural 
research specialist, and an accounting and disbursement specialist.
2.
EARO shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A, B, and C.2 of the 
Project, and AUA shall be responsible for the implementation of Part C.1 of the 
Project. The Borrower shall: (i) through MOA, enter into an agreement with EARO for 
the purposes of carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, (ii) cause EARO to enter into an 
agreement with the concerned Regional Governments for the purposes of carrying out the 
Project, and (iii) cause EARO to enter into an agreement with AUA for the purposes of 
carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, all under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association. 
3.
Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) cause 
EARO and AUA, respectively, to carry out Parts A (except for Part A.3), B, and C.2 of 
the Project, and Part C.1 of the Project, respectively, in accordance with the 
policies, procedures, timetables, guidelines, and other arrangements set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual; (ii) cause EARO to carry out Part A.3 of the Project in 
accordance with the Guidelines, and (iii) not amend  or waive, or permit to be amended 
or waived, the Project Implementation Manual, the Guidelines, or any provision 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project, or any part thereof. 
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of Director General, Deputy 
Director General, Project Coordinator, and Directors of EARO shall, at all times 
during the execution of the Project, be kept filled by persons having qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Page  14
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
cause EARO and AUA to furnish to the Association six-monthly reports in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the 
Project;
(c)
not later than April 30 of each year, commencing in calendar year 1999, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association, EARO and AUA, a joint annual review on 
all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project during the current calendar year, having 
regard to the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(d)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, shall furnish to 
the Association:
(i)
for its review and comments, a report in such detail as the 
Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project 
including: (A) an 
evaluation of agricultural research activities 
during the previous calendar 
year, including beneficiary assessments, 
and (B) an assessment of the role of 
the private sector in 
agricultural research, and
(ii) 
for its approval, a proposed action plan for the implementation of 
the Project 
during the following calendar year, including a proposed 
work program and a 
proposed budget.
(e)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist EARO and AUA in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or assist EARO and AUA in implementing, such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and 
(f)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, EARO, and AUA a workshop for 
the launching of the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, 
disbursement and procurement procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation 
of the Project.
6.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about thirty-six months after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall carry out jointly with the Association and EARO a midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things:
(i)
an in-depth review of all components of the Project,
(ii)
a discussion of the options for ensuring the long-term 
sustainability of EARO 
and AUA, including a review of the timeliness 
and adequacy of the Borrower’s 
budgetary contribution to the financing 
of the Project, and
(iii)
a review of arrangements for meeting operating and maintenance 
costs of 
agricultural research.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least six (6) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program. 
Page  15
7.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to ensure that EARO, 
MOA, and AUA are represented in the meetings of EARB at all times until the completion 
of the Project. 
8.
Not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall prepare, on the basis of the 
findings of the study to be carried out under Part A.6 of the Project, an action plan 
acceptable to the Association, designed to increase the participation of women in 
agricultural research activities and to improve the relevance of agricultural research 
to the specific needs of women farmers, and thereafter implement said action plan in 
accordance with the timetables indicated therein. 
9.
Not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall cause EARO to adopt an action 
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the establishment of the research centers to 
be established under Part B.2 of the Project, and thereafter, implement said action 
plan in accordance with the timetables indicated therein.
10.
Not later than September 30, 1999, the Borrower shall cause EARO to adopt a 
five-year rolling agricultural research plan acceptable to the Association, including 
appropriate human and budgetary requirements and timetables, and thereafter implement 
said plan in accordance with timetables indicated therein. 
Part A.3 of the Project 
11.
Not later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower shall cause EARO to establish the 
ARF under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
12.
(a)
EARO shall administer the ARF in accordance with the Guidelines, 
including the following provisions: 
(i)
EARO shall have overall responsibility for the administration and 
control of 
the ARF and for the approval and disbursement of Research 
Grants; and 
(ii)
EARO shall enter into a Research Grant Agreement with each ARF 
Beneficiary 
under terms and conditions, satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall 
include the obligation of the ARF 
Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the research 
activity approved by EARO, 
(B) periodically report to EARO on the progress 
made in 
carrying out the research, and (C) procure the goods and services to 
be financed under a Research Grant in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association as specified in the Research Grant Agreement and which shall 
be consistent with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a), and 
4 (a) with respect to Special Account A, Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), and 4 (c) 
with respect to Special Account B, and Category 4 (b) with respect to Special Account 
C, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
in respect of the Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of 
the Special Account B, and an amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of the Special 
Account C, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of Special Account A, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories 1 (a), 
Page  16
2 (a), 3 (a), and 4 (a) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Parts A (excluding A.3 and A.4), B (excluding B.2), and C.2 of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the respective 
Special Account of an amount which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify; and
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
Page  17
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. 
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
