Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
40V  ol q c7  _ d
Report No. 6840-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
May 26, 1988
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Agriculture Sector Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          Dinar (DA)
US$1.00                                DA 5
DA 1.00                                US$0.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decemoer 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGID :      Agence Nationale de Realisation et de Gestion des Infrastructures
Hydrauliques pour l'Irrigation et le Drainage
(National Agency for Construction and Operation of Hydraulic
Infrastructures for Irrigation and Drainage)
DAP  :      Direction de l'Agriculture et de la Peche de la Wilaya
(Provincial Directorate for Agriculture and Fisheries)
DAS  :      Domaine agricole socialiste
(Socialist Sector Farm)
EAC  :      Entreprise Agricoles Collectives
(Collective Agricultural Enterprises)
LSI  :      Large-scale Irrigati n
MA   :      Ministere de l'Agriculture
(Ministry of Agriculture)
MEF  :      Ministere de l'Hydraulique et des Forets
(Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests)
OPI  :      Office des Perimetres Irrigues
(Regional Irrigation Authority)
SDA  :      Secteur de Developpement Agricole
(Agricultural Development Service)
SSI  :      Small Scale Irrigation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Amount:                US$14 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:   Create an adequate portfolio of well prepared irrigation
projects in the context of a well-defined investment
program, *hich would increase farm output and internal
food supply, and raise rural income.
Executing Agency:      Ministry of Hydrauiics and Forestry.
Project Description:  The proposed project cotlsists of the following
components to be implemented over a four year period:
(a) for small-scale irrigation (SSI): (i) an inventory
of existing schemes and an assessment of the need for
rehabilitation; (ii) an assessment of the potential for
new schemes; (b) for large-scale irrigation (LSI):
feasibility and detailed engineering studies and bidding
documents for four major LSI projects involving a total
of about 85,000 ha; (c) a national 10-year plan for
irrigation development for SSI and LSI consistent with
existing re3ional and national long-term water master
plans, Government strategy for agricultural development
and objectives of the current and next 5-year plan; (d)
technical assistance to MHF and AGID in the form of
short missions of selected high level specialists in
irt.gation planning, design, construction and operation;
(e) technical and scientific equipment such as vehicles,
topographic equipment, micro-computers, etc., to enhance
AGID capacity and efficiency.
Risks:                 The proposed 2'roject does not involve special risks.
The strong support being lent to irrigation development
by the Government should ensure the adequate and timely
provision of local funds for project execution.
Satisfactory quality of consulting services will be
assured by using selection procedures consistent with
Bank guidelines. Adequate coordination and supervision
would be provided by AGID.
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tAeir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- (ii) -
Estiniated Proleot Costs:
Local        ForeiRn       Total
----- ----USS Million---------
Enfineerinp Studies
Small-scale irrigation                     1.6            3.6          5.2
Large-scale irrigation                     3.5            8.3         11.8
Total                                 5.1           11.9         17.0
Technical Assistance
Consultant missions                        0.1            0.2          0.3
Equipment
Vehicles, technical and
scientific equipment                     0.2            0.5          0.7
Base Cost                                       5.4           12.6         18.0
Physical and price contingencies           0.6            1.4          2.0
Total Cost                            6.0           14.0        20.0
Finaneing Pln:
Local       Foreian        Total          X
- -- US  Million--
Government                          6.0          -             6.0          30
IBRD                                            14.0          14.0          70
Total                         6.0          14.0          20.0         100
Estimated Disbursements:
1989       1990        1991       1992
Bank FY                                              ---------US$ Million
Annual                       3.0         3.0         4.0         '.0
Cumulative                   3.0         6.0        10.0       14.0
Rate of Return:
Not applicable
3211E



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
IRRIGATION ENGINEPRING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pace No.
I .   INTRODUCTION ................. ..      ........................*......     1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......       ..................................     2
A.   The Performance of the Sector in the Economy ....        ..........   2
B.   Agricultural Performance and Government Strategy         ..........   3
C.   Experience with Past Lending in the Sector           ................  4
III. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR .................   ........................................  5
A.   Present Status of Irrigation ..         ............................  5
. Small-Scale Irrigation .....o. o...oooo.. ooo        ooo.... .... .* oo.... ..  6
. Large-Scale Irrigation .o....oo. oo........*....o...*oooooo.......  6
B.   Potential for Development of Irrigation ... ...............           6
Co  Government Strategy .o........0.0.0.....00 .... ............ ........  7
D.   Institutional Framework ..o.o..o.o.. . .. ...oo.. ...o . . ..o.. ..o.o.oo.o..  8
IV.  THE PROJECT ..oooo.oooooo.o.o..*#.o..ooo..o.. o.. o..oooo.o                 8
A.   Project Objectives ..       .      ........................................  8
B.   Project Description ...o.ooooo.........*..*.... *..***.**  ..0        9
. Studies for the Development of Small-Scale Irrigation ...           9
. Studies for the Development of Large-Scale Irrigation ...           9
Preparation of 10-Year Irrigation Development Plan ......          10
Technical Assistance and Equipment           ......................  10
. Equipment *#*004*0 .......so                          .....        10
C.   Environmental Impact ......................................          10
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing .............        .................  11
E.   Procurement and Disbursement ..............................          11
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION ..............         .............................  12
A.   Management of Project Studies             .............................  12
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..........................          13
ANNEX 1 - Status of Large-Scale Irrigation
ANNEX 2 - General Scope of 10-Year Development Plan



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     At Independence in 1962, Algeria was predominantly an agrarian
society with a limited industria. base. The basis of independent Algeria's
economic policy was the promotion of industrialization and reduced dependence
on foreign investments and imports. The major instruments used in the pursuit
of this strategy were the application of centralized planning to the economy,
reliance on public enterprises in industry and services, and an agrarian
revolution which included land reform with the creation of socialist sector
farms, and a shift from the export orientation developed during the colonial
period to meeting domestic food requirements. The strategy was fueled by the
development of hydrocarbon resources in order to generate national savings for
investment and avoid excessive recourse to external borrowing. The strategy
met with some success. The investment rate reached an average of 40-452 of
GDP and the economy, driven by these high investment rates, grew at an
impressive 7% p.a., compared to 3% p.a. for other middle income countries as a
group. Algeria also enjoyed favorable results in a number of social
indicators. Unemployment in non-agricultural sectors was reduced by half.
Enrollment in primary schools rose from 572 to 902 of the relevant age groups
by the late seventies; female enrollment rates are much higher than in
neighboring countries.  These impressive achievements were, however.
accompanied by serious disequilibria. Economic and social infrastructure in
many sectors remained well below Plan targets hampering the efficiency of the
productive sectors. Agricultural production, in particular, stagnated.
Overall, the pace of development, while rapid, was not commensurate with the
enormous levels of investment.
1.02     In the early eighties, Government moved to eliminate these
disequilibria: there was a shift in economic policy with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency of thd economy. This became all the more important
as -!Qst economic indicators turned sharply unfavorable in response to the 1986
oil-shock. The current account deficit, which averaged some US$120 million a
year since 1980, increased dramatically to US$2.2 billion in 1986. In 1987, a
stringent import cut-back program and reduced investments brought it into
approximate balance. As a result of the cut-back, the volume of imports fell
in 1987 by 402 compared to the 1984 level. The actions to limit imports also
slowed overall growth substantially from about 5.6% per annum to -0.42 in 1986
and an estimated 1.72 in 1987. With population growth of some 3.2% per annum,
GDP per capita has, therefore, declined for two years in a row.



- 2 -
1.03     Responding to the oil-shock and the new policy direction, Government
has initiated a series of courageous and far reaching reforms cutting across
most sectors of the economy. These reforms aim to decentralize the economy,
make it more responsive and market-oriented, increase its efficiency
essentially through better utilization of existing capacity, and place greater
reliance on the small but growing private sector. The new policy orientation
focuses on: (i) greater autonomy and flexibility to public enterprises; (ii)
reforms in the agricultural sector as described later in this report; (iii)
restructuring the financial system, including the institutions and instruments
of fiscal and monetary policy; and (iv) liberalizing trade, price and
incentive regimes. The first significant reform occurred in 1983 with the
breakup of about 60 giant Public Enterprises into 300 smaller ones. Others
have followed: Government passed a banking reform in 1986, passed legislation
in 1987 to grant greater autonomy to public enterprises and abolished the
Ministry of Plan and, with it, the concept and function of a priori control
and central investment allocation. Profound reforms have also taken place in
the agriculture sector, the most important of which is the virtual
privatization of the state farming sector which accounted for about 60-70% of
the agricultural potential of the country.
1.04     Among the measures taken to improve agricultural productivity and cut
imports are those aimed at the irrigation subsector which provides 30-40% of
agricultural production. Programs are underway to expand the availability of
irrigation water and to improve the efficiency of its use by extending and
rehabilitating large-scale irrigation schemes, expanding the development of
smaller schemes and establishing institutions capable of ensuring adequate
n&M, and improved cost recovery policies. The proposed Project would
contribute to this effort by providing for inventories, feasibility studies
and detailed engineering to prepare a priority investment program for
irrigation.
1.05     The Project was identified during a Bank FAO/CP reconnaissance
mission which visited Algeria in January 1987. It was prepared by the
Government with assistance of the Bank and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in
January-March 1987 and appraised in April 1987 by a mission composed of
Mr. Lucca (mission leader), Mr. Vaccari and Villaret (FAO/IBRD), and Mr.
Manuellan (consultant).
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Performance of the Sector in the Economy
2.01     Algeria's population is estimated at 22 million (1986), of whom about
52% live in rural areas. During the last ten years population growth has
averaged about 3.2%, although in rural areas, because of outmigration, it has
been only about 1.2%. About 25% of the labor force is employed in
agriculture. The contribution of agriculture to GDP has decreased over the
years, partly as a result of the importance placed on investment in heavy
industries and the construction sector, and partly because of the stagnation
in productivity in agriculture. As a result, the share of agriculture in
aggregate value added declined from about 13% in 1970 to less than 7% in
1984-1985.



- 3 -
B. Agricultural Performance and Government Stratev
2.02     The growth of the agricultural sector in Algeria over the past
fifteen years, at about 2.6% p.a. in real terms, has been insufficient to keep
pace with growing demand. Most of the growth can be attributed to the rapid
increase in prizes of fruits, vegetables and livestock products and the supply
response to these increasing prices. At the same time, however, the
production of staple foods, cereals and pulses, has stagnated. As a result of
the increase in per capita incomes (4.5 - 5.02 p.a.) and the growing
population, the food gap has widened significant'y. Algeria now imports up to
70% of its basic food requirements, compared to only about 302 in the
1966-1970 period. Yields of most principal crops have stagnated, with the
exception of fodder crops and some vegetables, and remain 30 - 50% lower than
neighboring countries with similar climatic and soil conditions. This poor
performance has been attributed to many factors. Although agricultare has
been favored in terms of relative pricing and has benefitted from an effort to
provide at least the socialist sector farms with sufficient equipment and
inputs, production has shown little response to investments.
2.03     It is important, however, to distinguish the performance of the
private sector from that of the socialist sector. Until 1987, the socialist,
state-owned and run farning sector occupied the most fertile land in the
country and had priority treatment in the distribution of inputs, equipment
and credit. In 1987, the Domaines Agricoles Socialistes (DAS) occupied about
32% of the arable area (2.4 million out of 7.5 million ha total) and
cultivated about 40% of the total cultivated area (1.8 million ha out of
4.6 million ha total). They produced 40 to 50% of the major food crops, wheat
and barley, and 20 to 30 of fruits and vegetables. In spite of their
favorable situation and access to inputs, their yields were at best slightly
higher, and for some crops much lower, than those of private farmers, who
until a few years ago had minimum access to improved seeds, fertilizers,
insecticides, farm equipment and institutional credit. The DAS had almost
continuous operating deficits and were a large drain on Government resources.
The private, small-scale farmers, by contrast, have performed considerably
better in spite of their handicaps. They have been particularly responsive to
attractive opportunities, sutch as in the poultry sub-sector, fruit and
vegetable production, and land development in the southern part of the countr'r.
2.04     To improve agricultural performance, Government has, since 1980,
increasingly liberalized the agricultural sector. It reduced its own
involvement in marketing of certain crops (fruits and vegetables), and
allowed, on a limited scale, private traders to supply inputs and spare parts
for equipment. It has gradually increased the access of private farmers to
inputs, equipment and credit at the same time that it introduced a series of
reforms to improve the DAS performance. Finally, in 1987 Government undertook
an historic transformation of the socialist sector by dismantling the DAS and
replacing then with private voluntary cooperatives (EAC = exploitations
agricoles collectives) which are to be autonomous and free from Government
management. Between October 1987 and May 1988 some 25,000 groups of private
farmers were established. These groups are completely responsible for their
o-erat:ons and financial consequences (to retain profits or to make up
losses), are owners of all infrastructure and equipment associated with the
321 1E



- 4 -
farm and, with usufruct rights to the land, are able to transfer or bequeath
thuse rights. Government faces a major challenge to ensure that the newly
formed EACs have sufficient access co inputs, equipment and credit and to
provide services such as research and extension that respond to the needs of
the restructured sector (para, 2.07).
2.05     The amounts allocated to investment in agriculture under successive
development plans have been systematically under-implemented as a result of
institutional, organizational and managerial constraints. In future, it is
Government's intention to channel more resources for investment in agriculture
through credit to farmers through the Banque de l'Agriculture et de
Developpement Rural (BADR) (para. 2.07). Government recognizes that more
attention will also have to be paid to modernization of agricultural
infrastructure, equipment of irrigated areas, and facilities for stock
raising. In particular, emphasis is being placed on irrigation development
including rehabilitation of existing schemes and introduction of new
infrastructure. However, irrigation development is a long-term process for
which Government requires assistance in planning and in drawing up engineering
studies for investments. The proposed project would help fulfill this need
for both the small- and large-scale irrigation sectors.
C. Experience with Past Lending in the Sector
2.06     Bank Group lending for agriculture in Algeria started in 1974, and to
date only four projects have been approved for a total of US$152 million of
Bank funds. Performance under the first three projects was mixed, reflecting
the institutional constraints in the sector. The Technical Assistance - Rural
Development Project (Loan 1159-AL) was completed in 1983 after considerable
delays mainly due to problems with the organization of the project. In spite
of the delays, the Project partly met its objectives of analyzing the major
constraints and designing and, in some cases, testing different approaches to
rural development in Algeria. The Bas-Cheliff Irrigation Project (Loan
1802-AL) was completed in 1985, two years after the closing date foreseen at
appraisal. Delays occurred after bidding when no offers or expressions of
interest were zeceived for the major civil works because of the very modest
size of these works. The works were finally carried out by a local public
sector enterprise. The Project's physical works were completed by the end of
1986 and project studies have provided an essential framework for the future
development of the Cheliff river basin. The completion report (June 86)
concluded that given the difficulties of operating in Algeria and especially
with the Ministry of Hydraulics before its reorganization in 1984, it would
have been more realistic to foresee a five-year instead of a three-year
implementation period. However, the project offered a unique opportunity to
the staff of the Ministry of Hydraulics to become fully aware of the
difficulties connected with the rehabilitation of small scattered irrigation
work and trained staff to deal with small Irrigation.  The Meat Industry
Project (Loan 1739-AL) was cancelled in 1983 at the Government's request, a
few months after the Loan became effective.  No reasons were given by the
Government for this request. The fourth project, the Cheliff Irrigation
Project, has only recently become effective (para. 2.08).
321 1E



2.07     From 1980 until mid-1986, the Bank thus had limited involvement in
Algerian agriculture. More recently, however, tne Bank has begun to develop a
policy dialogue and a lending program. One of the major themes is the
importance of promoting the private farming sector. In addition, now that
Government has transformed the DAS into groups of private farmers, the roles
of extension, input distribution and marketing are even more critical for the
development of agriculture. The lending program is being designed to address
these issues by including, inter alia, a research and extension project,
designed to develop an effective network of extension agents for both the
small-scale farmers and the newly formed farmer groups, coordinated with
research designed to address their agronomic problems; and, work in
association with UNDP to improve and expand fertilizer supplies to farmers
(part of a larger effort to improve input distribution in general, which
includes work by the EEC on seed and pesticide supply and distribution). A
national agricultural credit project is also planned which would serve a dual
function of providing badly needed foreign exchange to import on-farm
equipment in short supply in Algeria and of providing a framework and
direction for the national agricultural bank at a formative stage. It is
expected that if this project is successful in meeting its objectives, it
would become the first of a series of lines of credit designed to strengthen
institutional credit for agricultural and agro-industrial development in
Algeria. As noted, this activity has become increasingly important since
credit to private farmers is now expected to be a major vehicle for investment
in agriculture.
2.08     The most recent project to be financed was the Cheliff Irrigation
Project, including both rehabilitation and new irrigation, for which a loan
of US$94 million was approved by the Board of Directors on May 12, 1987. This
project which was declared effective on July 22, 1988 has made a good start.
The Bank expects to appraise shortly the West-Mitidja Irrigation Project which
relies on existing water storage facilities. These, together with the
proposed loan, would make for three ongoing irrigation operations. These
projects would permit the Bank to be involved in the practical aspects of
restructuring the DAS into technically and economically viable units, as well
as supporting the institutional framework of irrigation schemes. Experience
gained during the Bas Chelif Project, appraisal and monitoring of the Cheliff
Irrigation Project, and preparation of the West-Mitidja Irrigation Project
have been used in the design of the proposed Project. To minimize the risk of
delays, arrangements for the selection of consultants in accordance with Bank
guidelines are well advanced which would permit the contracts to be signed
soon after Board presentation.
m. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Present Status of Irrigation
3.01     Irrigation schemes in Algeria are usually classified as:  (a) small-
scale irrigation (SSI) schemes, which are modern or traditional systems,
varying in size from a few hectares to several hundred hectares with water
supplied from small earth dams ("lacs collinaires"), diversion weirs, wells or
tubewells; and (b) large-scale irrigation schemes (LSI). These are modern
irrigation systems covering more than 3,000 ha with water usually supplied by
321 1E



a large dam. The estimated area prese.itly under irrigation is about 400,000
ha of which 340,000 ha under SSI and 60,000 ha under LSI.
Small-Scale Irrigation
3.02     Little detailed information is available on the number, size, and
location of SSI schemes. According to available i984 statistics, tne 340,000
ha under SSI are divided as follows: shallow wells (120,000 ha), tube wells
(60,000 ha), diversion weirs and pumps (44,000 ha), small earth dams ("lacs
collinaires", 4,000 ha), and occasional flood (spate irrigation, 110,000 ha).
Hydraulic efficiency and agricultural performance vary greatly according to
the type of irrigation. Most of the systems above 100 ha were created with
public investments before Independence and need rehabilitation. Spate
irrigation in the highlands has low efficiency and economic impact. Tubewell
irrigation is mainly concentrated in the oases of the Sahara where it provides
the only source of agricultural production; many of these irrigation schemes
need rehabilitation.
Large-Scale Irrigation
3.03     The total area under large-scale irrigation is about 60,0O0 ha
distributed over eight major schemes of 3,000-11,000 ha operated by four
regional OPI (Office des Perimetres Irrigues). Six of these eight schemes are
located in the Cheliff Valley and Oran area, with a total of 40,000 ha. Many
of the majGr LSI schemes were also created well before Independence and now
need rehabilitation. Maintenance and operation of the systems have become
increasingly costly and until recently, modest budget allocation and low water
charge recovery only allowed for minor day-to-day repairs. Frequent
interruption of water distribution discouraged farmers from growing delicate
and high value crops. Rehabilitation proposals for these schemes have been
prepared or are under preparation and are already being implemented.
Government has also taken steps to increase water charges considerably to have
more resources available to OPIs for 0 and M (para. 3.15).
B. Potential for Development of ITigation
3.04     The major potential for developing new SSI schemes is through the
development of groundwater and the development of non-perennial streams by the
construction of small earth dams. In addition, most of the existing schemes
-- particularly in the Saharan oases -- would need rehabilitation. For LSI
schemes, a recent survey completed by MHF for the whole of Algeria (excluding
the Sahara) identified 85 sites suitable for dam construction of which 20 are
already built and 21 under construction (1986). These dams could regulate a
total of 4.6 billion m3 of which 1.3 billion m3 would be allocated to
domestic and industrial water supply and 3.3 billion m3 would be available
for irrigating about 500,000 ha (including the 60,000 ha irrigated at
present). Some 450,000 ha of this are located in the northern plain and only
50,000 ha on the highland and steppe areas. Indeed, half of the total
potential for LSI is concentrated in the Cheliff valley, the Algiers area
(Mitidja in particular) and the Constantine region where agriculture competes
for land and water with expanding large cities, overcrowded rural areas,
industrial development and transport infrastructure. The tradeoffs involved
will be addressed under the 10-year development plan included in the project.



C. Gover-nment Strategy
3.05     Since Independence, considerable funds have been allocated to water
resources development with the primary objective of meeting demand for water
resulting from the dramatic urban and individual growth. Major capital
investmenta were made in water storage, transfer and distribution benefitting
large cities and industrial areas while irrigation was given a low priority.
This trend was reversed in the early eighties when the Government considered
that the main infrastructure needed to provide for households and industry
water consumption was reasonably met whereas agricultural production was
seriously lagging behind. Large-scale irrigation and to a minor extent,
small-scale irrigation received substantial budget allocations as reflected in
the 1985 plan which provides for the completion of 58,400 ha of LSI projects
and the launching of 56,900 ha LSI and 20,000 ha SSI. The plan also provides
for the completion of 16 dams and the launching of another 17 for both
irrigation and water supply.
3.06     Priority for public investment was first placed on the badly needed
rehabilitation work in the Cheliff Valley and Oran area where most existing
irrigated land is found. Five schemes are now under rehabilitation and
expansion covering an area of 64,000 ha (Annex 1). In the meantime, the
construction of new schemes has been initiated (or are about to be initiated)
on 6 sites with a targeted area of about 50,500 ha. As a result of these
efforts, the total irrigated area by LSI schemes will gradually increase from
60,600 ha in 1987 to about 150,000 ha by 1995, an average increase of about
10,000 ha/year. For all these schemes, the required dams have already been
built or are under construction.
3.07     A crucial issue is the continuity of this development and
construction program, which will gradually come to an end between 1989 and
1995, as the portfolio of detailed engineering studies available in MHF is
limited. Bearing in mind that there is a ten-year time span between the
preliminary design and the end of the construction of any LSI scheme, it is ne
critical importance to build up a portfolio of studies at the level required
for financing decision and contract awarding. Thne proposed Project would
provide the funding and technical support required to draw up such detailed
studies.
3.08     Although the importance of SSI is recognized by MHF, only modest
investments have been made because of the lack of trained staff, the absence
of a clear strategy and the absence of a sound investment program. A detailed
inventory of all existing schemes and a comprehensive assessment of land and
water resources available on a regional basis .or rehabilitation or creation
of new SSI schemes is a prerequisite for designing a major expansion of SSI.
The proposed Project would provide the required studies and help MHF define a
national SSI program.
3211EI



- 8 -
D. Intitutional Framework
Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests
3.09     The Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests (MHF) supervises the planning,
execution, and operation of the complete set of activities required to bring
irrigation water down to farmgate. Strategic planning and coordination are
the responsibility of the central units of the Ministry, in particthlar, the
Directorate of Planning (DP), the Directorate of Small and Medium Scale
Irrigation (DPMH), and the Directorate of Large-Scale Irrigation (DGPI).
Specialized activities are carried out by autonomous "public enterprises"
under MHF control such as ANRH for soil survey and water resource, AGID
(National Agency for Construction and Operation of Hydraulic Infrastructure
for Irrigation and Drainage) for design and execution of LSI projects.
3.10     The institutional set up for LSI in particular has substantially
developed over the last few years to provide better support to Government
strategy. Only overall planning and coordination activities are now retained
by DGPI while all responsibilities for design and construction have been
delegated to AGID since January 1, 1988. AGID is still in the start-up stage
with a number of constraints, in particular, shortage of vehicles, technical
and scientific equipment. Most of the AGID professional staff lacks
experience and short-term technical assistance from high level specialists
would be needed to review large projects under preparation or construction,
discuss key issues and suggest appropriate solutions. The proposed Irrigation
Engineering Project will provide an ideal vehicle for strengthening AGID.
3.11     Operation and maintenance of major LSI schemes is the responsibility
of four OPI (Regional Irrigation Authorities) established in 1986. The first
results achieved by the OPIs are encouraging particularly with respect to
water distribution and system efficiency. Government is committed to improve
OPI financial viability through adequate water pricing. Water charges were
increased substantially in 1985 to DAO.ll-0.17/m3 and are about to be
substantially increased again in the near future so that OPI operating budget
would be entirely covered by the water charges.
Ministry of Agriculture
3.12     The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is responsible for providing support
to farmers for agricultural development within the irrigated schemes. At
regional level, a Division of Agriculture and Fisheries (DAP) is established
in each wilaya and is responsible for implementing all MA programs as well as
the irrigation programs promoted by MHF.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01     The project objective is to help Algeria prepare plans for the
development of irrigation to raise rural incomes and increase farm output by
making agriculture less vulnerable to periodic droughts and the rainfall
32 ItI



- 9 -
uncertainties, consistent with the objectives of the 1985-89 plan and
long-term development objectives. There is a shortage of good projects
available for implementation. This project would help fill the gap as well as
improve planning techniques in the Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests. The
schemes to be studied for Large-Scale Irrigation have been selected on the
basis of the results of recent water master plans and cover areas with the
most important agricultural potential in Algeria. They comprise about 752 of
the area to be put under Large-Scale Irrigation in the medium-term. Studies
for the other areas of high potential (the Cheliff River Basin, in particular)
have already been completed or are ongoing.
4.02     The engineering and planning studies carried out under this project
would be inter-related with several sector studies planned with Bank, FAO and
UNDP assistance to complete and refine the information that would be made
available by the Project. The sector studies would provide information on
(a) the marketing structure and demand conditions of food crops in Algeria
with special emphasis in the capital area of Algiers; (b) the advisable
cropping patterns for intensification of production of food stuffs; (c) the
cost recovery levels recommended in irrigated to schemes; and (d) the
improvements required in research, agricultural extension and input
distribution. The main justification for Bank participation in this project
is the important impact the project could have on investment planning by MHF.
B. Project Description
4.03     The proposed Project would consist of the following components:
(a)  studies for the development of small-scale irrigation (SSI);
(b) studies for the development of large-scale irrigation schemes (LSI);
(c)  preparation of a 10-year development plan for SSI and LSI; and
(d) technical assistance and equipment for AGID and MHF.
The project would be implemented over about 4 years and would be completed by
June 1992.
4.04     Studies for the Development of Small-Scale Irrigation.  The objective
of this study is to set up national and regional programs for rehabilitation
and expansion of SSI schemes including diversion weir systems, small earth
dams "lacs collinaires") and shallow wells. In a first stage, a
comprehensive inventory of all existing schemes would be carried out using a
satellite imagery and extensive field visits over a project area of about
250,000 km2. The study would also assess water and land resources available
for the construction of new schemes. In a second stage, the study would
prepare detailed programs for SSI rehabilitation and expansion in each of the
wilayas contained in the project area.
4.05     Studies for the Development of Large-Scale Irrigation.  These studies
would be implemented over a 48 month period and would essentially involve 4
large irrigation schemes covering an aggregate 85,000 ha namely, Mitidja
321 1E



- 10 -
(57,000 ha in the wilaya of Blida), El Esnam-Ouest Sahel (7,000 ha in tne
wilaya of Bouira), El Tarf (14,000 ha in the wilaya of El Tarf), and Zit Emba
(7,000 ha in the wilaya of Skikda). For each scheme the study would include
three separate stages namely (a) review, updating and adjustment of surveys on
land and water resources, land tenure, and agricultural development; (b)
project identification and feasibility study; and (c) preparation of detailed
engineering design and bidding documents. Feasibility studies would involve
physical investments, agricultural development, and institutional aspects
whereas detailed design and bidding documents would cover infrastructure
including water distribution, drainage, feed roads and buildings. For the
zones being studied, the dams and water transfer works needed to provide
irrigation water are already buiit or are under construction.
4.06     Preparation of a 10-Year Irrigation Development Plan.  Based on the
above studies and other existing information, the proposed project would also
provide for the preparation of a 10-year development plan for both small-scale
irrigation and large-scale irrigation which would form the core irvestment
program in irrigation for the next two development plans (1990-94 and
1995-99). The plan would include investment priorities for the development of
the irrigation schemes by region and would be consistent with Government
strategies for the restructuring of the socielist sector and the development
of agricultural production. It would be also consistent with present and
projected water allocation for domestic and industrial water supply and for
budgetary allocation to the irrigation subsector. This plan would be prepared
by MHF with MA participation. The terms of reference for this study are given
in Annex 2.
4.07     Technical Assistance and Equipment.  The project would provide for
about 20 man-months of technical assistance to AGID and MHF in various
technical disciplines to help resolve specific technical problems encountered
on project preparation or implementation by these two agencies and provide
on-the-job training to the Algerian staff. This assistance would consist of
short-term missions of high level experts selected by AGID on a case-by-case
basis.
4.08     Equipment.  The project would finance technical and scientific
equipment required by the newly established AGID to improve its efficiency and
capacity. This would include vehicles, topographic equipment,
micro-computers, word processors, printing machines, etc.
C. Environmental hnpact
4.09     The feasibility studies for the four LSI projects and the regional
programs for SSI development (para. 4.04 and 4.05) would also assess the
environmental impact of future irrigation construction and operations. In
that regard, special attention would be given to the pollution of water with
agrochemicals, channel erosion and siltation, the risk of waterlogging and
salinization, the control of waterborne diseases, and also to the impact of
the long-term use of ground water.
3 2 11 e



- 11 -
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.10     The cost of the proposed project is estimated at DA 100 million
(US$20 million) including taxes and duties equivalent to about US$4.0 million
[see page (ii)]. The direct and indirect foreign exchange component amounts
to US$14 million or about 70% of the total cost.
4.11     The cost of the engineering studies (US$17 million) is based on the
proposals recently submitted by short-listed consulting firms invited to
submit proposals by MHF in conformity with Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants. The proposed loan of US$14 million equivalent to Algeria would
finance 1002 of the foreign exchange costs. Local expenditures would be
financed by the Algerian Government. The proposed loan would be for 15 years
including a five-year grace period.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
4.12     Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in the
following table:
PROCUREMENT METHODS
(iUs$ Million) /a
Procurement Methods
ICB    LCB    Other    N/A   Total Cost
1.  Engineering Consultants                -      -       19.0     -        19.0
-      -      (13.3)    -       (13.3)
2.  Training                               -      -        0.3     -         0.3
-      -       (0.2)    -       ( 0.2)
3.  Vehicles and Equipment                 -      0.7      -       -         0.7
-     (0.5)    -        -       ( 0.5)
TOTAL                            -       0.7    19.3      -        20.0
(0.5)  (13.5)    -       (14.0)
/a Figures in parentheses represent Bank loan financing.
4.13     All studies and detailed engineering as well as the provision of
technical assistance would be carried out by consulting firms selected
according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. The proceeds of the
321 1 E



- 12 
proposed luan would be disbursed at Llue rate of 100 percent of foreign
expendiLures, or 70  of total expenditures fur consulting services for large
engineeritig contracts and short-term conusultants, and 80% of local
expenditures for vehicles and equipment.  The projected disbursement period of
48 months is coumwnsurate with the nature of the studies.  No regional
disbursement profile is available for this type of loan, but the projected
disbursement period is consistent with experience of engineering loans
generally.
4.14     For all contracts valued at over US$200,000, standard documentation
for eligible expenditures would be submitted to the Bank. For contracts of
less than US$200,000 disbursement for eligible expenditures would be made
against statements of expenditure certified by the Government. In this case,
supporting documents would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made
available during project supervision.  In c.i.;er to reduce the Government's
pre-financing requirements, a special account would be opened at the Central
Bank of Algeria, where the Bank would -- at the Government's request -- make
an initial deposit of up to US$2 million. Withdrawals from the special
account, supported by statements of expenditure and other required
documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevails on the date of
payment. The Ministry of Hydraulics and Forests would send withdrawal
applications to the Bank, to replenish the special account, whenever 502 or
more of its financial resources are used.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Management of Project Studies
5.01     On behalf of the Algerian Government, AGID has been assigned
responsibility for overall nroject execution. AGID is an autonomous public
enterprise placed under MHF supervision and responsible for planning and
executing irrigation and drainage works in Algeria (paras. 3.09 and 3.10).
Until now, AGID responsibility covers LSI programs only, while DPMH in MHF
retains responsibility for SSI programs. As executing agency of the project,
AGID would coordinate the participation of all concerned departments or
enterprises of MHF and MA-and maintain a centralized project account. In each
wilaya involved in th2 project, AGID would also coordinate the participation
of the Agricultural Division of the wilaya.
5.02     The engineering studies would be undertaken by consulting firms
selected by MHF for SSI, and AGID for LSI. Bidding documents for the SSI
study and four of the LSI studies were prepared by MHF after project appraisal
and subsequently reviewed by the Bank. Offers were received by MHF from
short-listed consulting firms in October 1987 and evaluated by MHF in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Evaluation reports and proposals for award
were received by the Bank for review before loan negotiations. The five
contracts are expected to be awarded in the second semester of 1988. Bidding
procedures for the remaining LSI contract are expected to begin in early 1989
and the contract signed by end 1989.
321 1E



- 13 -
5.03     A study director would be appointed for each of the five contracts by
MHF for SSI and AGID for LSI. He would be the contact person for the
consulting firm, would coordinate day-to-day participation of MHF and MA, and
monitor consultants' activities.
5.04     Responsibility for the preparation of the 10-year irrigation
development plan would be with the Directorate of Planning in MHF.
Recruitment of consultants for short-term technical assistance missions would
be carried out by AGID including the preparation of terms of reference and
administrative procedures for assignments.
5.05     All documents delivered by the consulting firms would be formally
reviewed by ad-hoc committees established by AGID involving MHF, MA, and
wilaya officials. At AGID request, short-term consultants might be invited to
provide high level expertise on specific issues raised during study
implementation. All documents prepared by the consulting firms and short-term
consultants would be made available to the Bank at its request for review and
comments.
5.06     The 10-year development plan for irrigation development would be
submitted to the Bank in draft before December 31, 1989 for comments, and in
final form before December 31, 1991 taking into account Bank comments.
5.07     Equipiaent acquisition would be carried out by AGID in conformity with
Algerian policies and Bank guidelines for procurement of goods.
5.08     The Government agreed that separate accounts would be kept for the
project by AGID and would be audited by the "Inspection Generale des Finances"
in the Ministry of Finance, as currently accepted by the Bank for other
projects.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     The Government agreed at negotiations that:
(a)  the draft of the 10-year development plan of irrigat-on would be made
available to the Bank before December 31, 1989, and che final version
before December 31, 1991, taking into account Bank comments (para.
5.06);
(b) procurement procedures for the acquisition of equipment and the
recruitment of consulting firms and short-term consultants would be
in line with Bank guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and for
the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers, respectively (para.
5.07).
(c) separate accounts for the project would be kept by AGID and would be
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.08); and
6.02     Subject to the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$14 million to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
with a term of 15 years, including a five-year grace period. The project is
planned to be completed by June 30, 1992.



- 14 -                            ANNEX 1
ALGERIA
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Status of Large-Scale Irrigation
A. Existing schemes
name                       region         irrigated area      year of
ha          completion
Bou Namoussa                   Annabia             9.700           1977
Hamiz                           Algiers           11.000           1937
Khemis                          Cheliff            9.300           1984
Moyen Cheliff                   Cheliff           10.800           1938
Relizane                        Cheliff            5.600           1941
Mina                            Cheliff            4.000           1943
Habra                           Oran               3.300           1940
Sig                             Oran               7.100           1946
Miscellaneous5'                 4 schemes          5.800           1975-85
66.600
B. Existing schemes under rehabilitation/extension
Khemis                          Cheliff           10.300           1986-884'
Relizanel'                      Cheliff            5.000           1988-92
Mina                            Cheliff           17.000           1986-93
Habra                           Oran              22.000           1985-88
Moyen Cheliff2'                 Cheliff           10.000           1990-95
64.300-L'
C.  New schemes under construction
West-Mitidja 1lre tranche      Algiers             7.900           1984-89
Arrib                          Algiers             2.200           1984-88
Saf Saf                        Constantine         5.400           1984-89
Guelma-Bouchegouf              Mellegue           13.000           1986-93
West-Mitidja 2eme tranche2'   Algiers             14.000           1989-95
Amra-Abadia1'                   Cheliff            8.000           1989-95
50.500
D. Summary
Expected Total irritated area in 1995
Existing schemes (1986)                          60.600 ha
Ongoing extension of existing schemes             30.000 ha
New schemes                                       50.500 ha
150.100 ha
1/ with actual World Bank financing
2/ with possible World Bank financing
3/ of which 30.000 ha extension and 34.000 ha rehabilitation
4/ Start-end of construction
5/ 4 schemes of 500 to 2300 ha operated by the Wilayate



15 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
General Scope of 10-Year Development Plan
1.       With assistance provided under the Project, Government would prepare
a national irrigation development plan covering the development of the
irrigation sector in Algeria over a 10-year period. The plan would:
Strategic Objectives and Options
(a) articulate Government medium- and long-term objectives for the
irrigation sector. To this end, the study would review the existing
long-term Master Plan for irrigation which would provide the
framework for the 10-year development plan. Drawing on the Master
Plan, the study would clarify the strategic options for the medium-
and long-term development of the irrigation sector. The study would,
therefore, spell out basic assumptions used to develop the long
strategy, such as, competing demands for domestic and industrial
water use based on assumed population growth, urban growth,
industrial and agricultural growth, planned economic and regional
development, etc. Based on this analysis and on decisions regarding
the transfers of water for domestic and urban use, the study would
quantify the surface and groundwater available for irrigation in
different regions (including in the south) now and for the duration
of the proposed 10-year plan.
Irrigation Technologies
(b) review the potential application of different technologies (surface
irrigation, sprinkler irrigation, drip irrigation, low pressure
systems) in different regions of Algeria. Using data collected in
para. iv(c) below, the plan would determine the costs and benefits of
each type of technology and comment on the appropriate circumstances
for their use in different regions.
Investment Priorities
(c) spell out investment priorities for development of irrigation by
region. Investment priorities should cover all types of schemes,
including:
(i)   rehabilitation of existing large and small-scale irrigation;
(ii)   development of new small irrigation schemes;
(iii)   development of large irrigation schemes; and
(iv)   development of irrigation in the desert areas.



- 16 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(d) establish national and regional investment priorities in light of all
relevant technical, economic, and social functions, including:
(i)   their impact on national objectives;
(ii)   their investment and O&M costs, so that the proposed priority
investment program is consistent with actual and projected
budget allocations for irrigation. The plan would spell out
the full budgetary implications of the proposed investment
program and indicate how this would be met (through the budget
or through credit).
(iii)   their economic benefits.  To this end, Government would collect
all necessary data from existing irrigation schemes (small and
large scale) so that the development plan can include a
detailed comparison of economic costs and benefits of
investments in rehabilitation or new schemes (small and large
scale). Economic benefits would be based on realistic cropping
patterns and would take into account, inter alia, soil
condition, drainage needs, marketing constraints, etc.
(e) detail the organizational set up necessary to implement the proposed
development plan. The plan would, to the extent possible, assess
staffing and training needs, and use of consultants (foreign and
local) to implement the plan.
(f) spell out Government's objectives for cost recovery including a time
table for implementation of proposals, and the organizational
structure for recovery of costs.
Other Issues
(g) specify the mechanisms to ensure orderly development of groundwater
resources, especially in the Sarar- region. In this regard, the plan
should detail the means by which Government would ensure that
groundwater resources are not over-exploited. This will require
specific proposals for the monitoring of groundwater resources.
(h) specify the mechanism for ensuring adequate water quality and
ensuring that groundwater resources used for domestic consumption are
not polluted.
(i) specify plans for control of erosion in upper catchment areas,
especially to prevent the siltation of dams.
2.       The plan would be prepared by the Ministry of Hydraulics, Forests and
Fisheries. A draft of the plan would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment by December 31, 1989. The final version would be submitted by
December 31, 1991.



