Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2978 AL
(Irrigation Engineering Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 13, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2978 AL
 LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1989, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MHF" means Ministere de l'Hydraulique et des Forets, the Borrower's 
Ministry of Hydraulics and Forestry;
     (b)  "AGID" means Agence Nationale de Realisation et de Gestion des 
Infrastructures Hydrauliques pour l'Irrigation et le Drainage, the National Agency for 
Construction and Management of Irrigation and Drainage Works of the  Borrower, 
established by Decree 87-181, dated August 18, 1987, of the Borrower and placed under 
the supervisory authority of MHF; and
     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost  of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed
               as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months 
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry 
out the Project through MHF and AGID with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate irrigation and engineering practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the  proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available to the Bank for its  possible 
review and comment, all interim and final technical reports, designs,  studies and 
other documents prepared pursuant to Parts A and B of the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1989, furnish 
to the  Bank for its review and comment the draft development plan provided in Part D 
of the Project; and
     (b)  not later than December 31, 1991, prepare the final version of said plan, 
taking into account the Bank's comments.  
     Section 3.05. In carrying out the engineering and feasibility studies under Part 
B of the Project the Borrower shall assess the environmental impact  of the 
construction and operation of the irrigation schemes referred to    thereunder, with 
particular attention to limiting the risk of pollution of  water with agrochemicals, 
channel erosion and siltation, water logging, poor drainage and salinization and water 
borne diseases.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
               this Section, including those for the Special Account for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
               principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
               later than nine months after the end of each such year, the 
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Bank may have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said  
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank may   
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with para-
               graph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
               audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
               from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
Page  4
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
               that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
               said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
               submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
               and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be  
               relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Immeuble Mauretania
          Place du Perou
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular
            Republic of Algeria
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               FINPLAN                          67073
               Alger
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names 
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                   DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                   By /s/ Rabah Kerouaz
Authorized Representative
Page  5
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Kemal Dervis
 Acting Regional Vice President
 Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Engineering                12,800,000      70%
     consultants
     for Parts A
     and B of the
     Project, includ-
     ing geotechnical
     studies
(2)  Technical                     200,000      70%
     assistance for
     Part C of the
     Project
(3)  Technical, scientific         500,000      100% of foreign
     and transport equip-                       expenditures and
     ment for Part C of                         80% of local
     the Project                                expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                   500,000
          TOTAL                 14,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall  be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to prepare individual irrigation projects in 
the Borrower's territory and a national irrigation development plan.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:   Small Irrigation Schemes
     Study and analysis of soil and water resources available for small- and 
medium-scale irrigated agriculture in an area of about 250,000 square kilometers in 
Page  6
the aggregate and preparation of an inventory of their present and potential use in 
small irrigation schemes.
Part B:   Large Irrigation Schemes
(1)  Preparation of feasibility studies for the development of large-scale irrigation 
on about four areas covering about 85,000 hectares in the aggregate.
(2)  Preparation of detailed draft designs and tender documents for selected schemes 
identified on the basis of work carried out under Part B (1) of the Project.
Part C:   Institutional Development
(1)  Provision to MHF of technical and scientific materials and equipment needed to 
carry out Part A of the Project.
(2)  Provision to AGID of technical assistance for its activities, and of technical, 
scientific and transport equipment.
Part D:   Development Plan
     Preparation of a national 10-year plan for development of small- and  large-scale 
irrigation projects covering, inter alia, water resources  management, construction of 
hydraulic infrastructures and development of irrigated agriculture.
*     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning March 15, 1994
      through September 15, 2003                 700,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
Page  7
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (expressed as a
                                         percentage per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding on the Loan
                                         on the day of prepayment multiplied 
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles
     Technical, scientific and transport equipment may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
the procedures of the Borrower compatible with the Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the  Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of awards and final contracts:
     The procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out  of the Special 
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the  two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the other information  required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.   The provisions of the preceding paragraph 1 shall not apply to contracts  on 
account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account  on the 
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance 
with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the   Borrower shall 
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants, when 
financed by the Bank, shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
Page  8
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the  eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to two  million 
dollars ($2,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been  justified by the evidence supporting the 
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
               should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account  
               in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
               or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
               eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
Page  9
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out  of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special  Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
