Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7790-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Framework for Green Growth Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 18, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7790-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 18, 2009, entered into between United Mexican States, 
represented by its signatory on page 6 of this Agreement (“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the 
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) 
the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.   
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth 
in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting 
the Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s 
income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower 
and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion five hundred and three 
million seven hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($1,503,750,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic 
policy framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the 
Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section II 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s Representatives for purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are 
the 
Director General
 of BANSEFI or the 
Director General Adjunto de Banca 
Page  3
2
Institucional 
of
BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such representative 
shall jointly or severally designate in writing. 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
Page  4
3
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II. B. 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through 
SEMARNAT, shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a 
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de  
 
Mandato
)
among SHCP, SEMARNAT and BANSEFI, satisfactory to the 
 
Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
BANSEFI agrees to 
represent the Borrower vis-
à-vis the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds in compliance with the terms of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SEMARNAT, shall cooperate 
fully with BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply 
with all of BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section. 
 
Page  5
4
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SEMARNAT, shall exercise its rights 
and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried 
out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of 
the Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section 
I
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion 
of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
 the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been executed by the parties thereto. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the Borrower 
 
(in its legal opinion) and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the 
 
Bank, issued by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
 
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon 
 
the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s 
 terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on April 20, 2011. 
Page  6
5
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s 
 Representative 
is 
the 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General 
 Conditions 
is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
Palacio Nacional 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
Colonia Centro 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  7
6
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, on behalf of the 
Bank and Mexico City, Mexico, on behalf of the Borrower, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ 
Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1.  
Comprehensive Policy Framework for the Reduction of Emissions Across 
Sectors
The Borrower has approved a strategy and policy framework that establishes 
cross-sectoral measures which will result in GHG emission reductions, as evidenced 
through the approval and publication in the 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 on August 
28, 2009 of the Special Program for Climate Change (PECC).  
 
2. 
Enabling and Monitoring Framework for the Reduction of Emissions in 
Transport and Energy
The Borrower has approved a legal framework to allow for the reduction of GHG 
emissions in urban transport and energy generation, as evidenced through: 
 
(a) 
The approval of the establishment of PROTRAM in accordance with 
PROTRAM Guidelines and of FONADIN’s participation in the 
Consultative Working Group of PROTRAM by a Resolution 
(Acuerdo
)
of the FONADIN Technical Committee.  
 
(b) 
The enactment of: (i) the Energy Efficiency Law, which includes the 
creation of CONUEE; and (ii) the Renewable Energy Law. 
 
3. 
Establishment of Financing Mechanisms to Facilitate the Reduction of 
Emissions in Transport and Energy
The Borrower has approved appropriate financing mechanisms to allow for the 
reduction of GHG emissions in transport and energy generation, as evidenced by: 
 
(a) 
(i) the issuance of the Borrower’s Decree dated February 7, 2008, 
providing for the creation of FONADIN; (ii) the execution of the Fourth 
Modifying Agreement; and (iii) the approval of the operating rules of 
FONADIN by FONADIN Technical Committee. 
 
(b) 
(i) The establishment of the Energy Fund; and (ii) the approval of the 
operating rules of the Energy Fund by the Energy Fund Technical 
Committee. 
 
Page  9
8
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to withdraw the proceeds 
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan (except for amounts required to repay 
the Front-end Fee and any Premia for Interest Rate Caps or Interest Rate Collars) 
is allocated in a single tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals 
of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with its laws and shall not use them to finance Excluded 
Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was 
used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Withdrawal Tranche
 
1,499,990,625
 
Front-end Fee
 
3,759,375
 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Interest 
Rate Collars (amounts due under section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement)
 
0
TOTAL AMOUNT
 
1,503,750,000
 
Page  10
9
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on October 15, 
2026. 
 
Page  11
10
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“BANSEFI” means 
Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.
,
a
Mexican development bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for 
purposes of the Loan. 
 
2. 
“Consultative Working Group” means 
Grupo de Trabajo Consultivo, 
the 
working group of PROTRAM (as hereinafter defined), as created and defined in 
the Resolution (
Acuerdo) 
of
FONADIN Technical Committee’s meeting of 
December 17, 2008.  
 
3. “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement. 
 
4. “CONUEE” 
means 
Comisión Nacional para el Uso Eficiente de la Energía
,
the 
national commission for the efficient use of energy, as created and operating 
under the Energy Efficiency Law (as hereinafter defined).   
 
5. 
“Energy Efficiency Law” means the 
Ley para el Aprovechamiento Sustentable de 
la Energía
,
the Borrower’s law published in the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la 
Federación
 on November 28, 2008, which provides the legal framework for the 
development and implementation of strategies, policies and programs to promote 
the sustainable and more efficient use of energy.   
 
6. 
“Energy Fund” means the 
Fondo para la Transición Energética y el 
Aprovechamiento Sustentable de la Energía
,
the fund for energy transition and 
the sustainable use of energy, as established and operating through the 
Renewable Energy Law (as hereinafter defined) and the 
Contrato de Fideicomiso 
de Administración y Pago,
 dated February 25, 2009, entered into between SHCP 
(as hereinafter defined) and 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, SNC, 
with the participation of 
Secretaría de Energía
.
7. 
“Energy Fund Technical Committee” means the technical committee (
Comité 
Técnico
)
of
the Energy Fund, with structure, procedure and functions as defined 
in the 
Contrato de Fideicomiso de Administración y Pago,
 referred to in 
definition (6) of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
Page  12
11
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
 
Sub-group
 
Description of Item
 
112
 
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
 
122
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
 
525
 
Radioactive and associated materials
 
667
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
 
718
 
718.7
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors
 
728
 
728.43
 
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897
 
897.3
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems)
 
971
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
Page  13
12
 
9. 
“FONADIN” means 
Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura
,
the 
national infrastructure fund established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 
published in the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 on February 7, 
2008, with the purpose of coordinating federal investment in infrastructure, 
mainly in the communications, transport, water, environment and tourism 
sectors. 
 
10. 
“FONADIN Technical Committee” means the technical committee (
Comité 
Técnico
)
of
FONADIN, as defined in the Decree referred to in definition (9) of 
this Appendix and with the structure, procedures and functions defined under the 
Fourth Modifying Agreement (as hereinafter defined). 
 
11. 
“Fourth Modifying Agreement” means the 
Cuarto Convenio Modificatorio al 
Contrato de Fideicomiso de Administración y Fuente de Pago Número 1936, 
dated May 6, 2008, entered into between  
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios 
Públicos, SNC
,
in its capacity as financial agent of the Borrower and 
Banco 
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, SNC
,
in its capacity of fiduciary 
institution, and with the participation of SHCP (as hereinafter defined), with the 
purpose of modifying and merging the FARAC - 
Fideicomiso de Apoyo para el 
Rescate de Autopistas Concesionadas
 into FONADIN.  
 
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
13. 
“GHG” means greenhouse gas. 
 
14. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies that establish 
cross-sectoral measures which will result in GHG emission reductions, 
specifically, but not limited to, the reduction of GHG emissions in urban 
transport and energy generation set forth or referred to in the letter dated August 
26, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank notifying of the Borrower’s execution of 
the Program and commitment thereto. 
 
15. “PROTRAM” 
means 
Programa de Apoyo Federal al Transporte Masivo
,
the 
Borrower’s support program for mass transit, established pursuant to Resolution 
(Acuerdo
)
of FONADIN Technical Committee’s meeting of December 17, 2008. 
 
16. 
“PROTRAM Guidelines” means the 
Lineamientos del Programa de Apoyo 
Federal al Transporte Masivo
 approved by a Resolution of FONADIN Technical 
Committee on December 17, 2008.    
 
Page  14
13
 
17. 
“Renewable Energy Law” means the 
Ley para el Aprovechamiento de las 
Energías Renovables y el Financiamiento de la Transición Energética,
 the 
Borrower’s law published in the Borrower’s Diario
 Oficial de la Federación
 on 
November 28, 2008, which establishes a national strategy to transition away from 
hydrocarbon based electricity generation to the broader use of renewable energy 
sources and a legal framework for promoting broader use of renewable energy 
sources.  
 
18. 
“SEMARNAT” means 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, 
the 
Borrower’s Environment and Natural Resources Secretariat. 
 
19. “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borro
wer’s 
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
20. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Special Program for Climate Change” means 
Programa Especial de Cambio 
Climático
 or PECC
,
the Borrower’s program for combating climate change while 
establishing the sectoral level interventions that will result in GHG emission 
reductions, published  in the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 on 
August 28, 2009, which provides an accounting of emissions by sector, creates a 
framework for monitoring improvements and establishes a blueprint for emission 
reduction initiatives, sector by sector.   
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
Page  15
14
 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Page  16
15
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly:
 
(a) The
 definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  
 
(e) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (d) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
