Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5003 
Operation Name 
Mexico Framework for Green Growth Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Renewable energy (50%);General transportation sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P115608 
Borrower(s) 
The United Mexican States 
Implementing Agency 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico  
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit) 
Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio Mariano 
3er Piso, Col. Centro 
Mexico, D.F. 
Mexico 
06000 
Tel: (52-55) 3688-1153 Fax: (52-55) 3688-1156 
gerardo_rodriguez@hacienda.gob.mx 
Date PID Prepared 
August 20, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 30, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
October 20, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mexico is one of the first developing countries to commit to a voluntary carbon reduction target to 
combat climate change.  The country has ratified the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCC) and the Kyoto Protocol and has pledged to halve GHG emissions by 2050.  It also plans to put 
in place a domestic cap-and-
trade system by 2012.  The establishment of Mexico’s federal emissions-
reduction programs was supported by an IBRD Climate Change Development Policy Loan (DPL) in 
2008.
1
These programs foresee far reaching reforms in the sectors that weigh most heavily in the 
country’s carbon footprint, such as transport and energy which account for 18 percent and 27 percent of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, respectively.  Such sectoral emissions reductions are now embedded in 
the Government of Mexico’s new Special Climate Change Program (
Programa Especial de Cambio 
Climático
,
or PECC), which provides an accounting of emissions by sector, creates a framework for 
monitoring improvements and establishes a blueprint for emission reduction initiatives.  Through the 
PECC, the Government of Mexico is evaluating the vulnerability of the country to Climate Change and 
conducting an economic valuation of the priority measures for intervention.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Project Development Objective is to support stimulus of the economy while strengthening the 
framework for long-term sustainable growth.  This will be achieved by further developing the regulatory, 
monitoring and financial framework for low emissions evolution of the transport and energy sectors. The 
three Policy Areas of the DPL thus aim to: (i) implement a verifiable, targeted and cross-sectoral strategy 
for emission reductions; (ii) establish institutions, regulations and monitoring capacity to allow for the 
reduction of emissions in urban transport, energy generation and efficiency; and (iii) institutionalize the 
1
Mexico 
–
Climate Change Development Policy Loan (P110849). 
 
Page  2
appropriate financing mechanisms to allow for the reduction of emissions in urban transport, energy 
generation and efficiency. 
 
Objectives at the sector level
:
Transport
 
–
The Urban Transport actions under this operation support the development of the institutions, 
policies and incentives needed to consolidate and modernize the Urban Transport Systems of Mexico.  
These reforms will make Urban Transport more efficient and effective, reducing automobile use and 
decreasing urban congestion to lower the sector’s carbon footprint.   
 
Energy
 
–
The
 
Law for the Use of Renewable Energy and the Financing of the Energy Transition and the 
Law for the Sustainable Use of Energy, supported under this operation, provide the regulatory framework 
for putting in place new incentive structures for an increased use of renewable energy in the country’s 
electricity generation mix and for improvements in the efficiency of energy use.  Success of these 
initiatives rest on the adequacy of the secondary regulations, the effectiveness of the incentives aimed at 
public and private stakeholders as well as end-consumers, a sound implementation program, the 
availability of financing mechanisms for such initiatives, and adequate capacity to implement and monitor 
policies.  
 
As a single tranche operation, the DPL acknowledges the important steps already taken by the 
Government of Mexico to develop Urban Transport and Energy policies that combat climate change and 
reduce GHG and other emissions. 
 
Page  3
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been engaged in a dialogue on Climate Change with Mexico since the mid-1990s.  The 
current Bank program in the country comprises about 25 climate-related activities financed by IBRD 
loans, GEF grants, carbon finance emission reductions purchase agreements (ERPAs), and other financial 
instruments.  In addition, the Bank and Mexico completed substantial analytical work in FY09 to define 
and cost a low-carbon growth scenario for the country, which examined, 
inter alia
,
the energy and urban 
transport sectors. 
 
In agreement with the objectives stated in the Country Partnership Strategy, this DPL builds on the 
Mexican authorities’ desire to maintain a strong financial and knowledge-based relationship with the 
Bank based on the need for increasingly flexible, on-demand services.  Given the impact of the global 
economic crisis on the Mexican economy, this DPL comes at a much needed time in the country’s 
development path, complementing a series of programmatic interventions including loans in addition to 
non-lending advisory services and technical assistance.  More specifically, the DPL constitutes the next 
step in the Bank’s support for Mexico’s adoption of effective policies to combat climate change and 
follows up more specifically on the Climate Change DPL (2008).  The present operation underpins 
significant reforms in the regulatory, institutional, financial and monitoring frameworks for the Energy 
and Urban Transport Sectors, which will serve as key elements of a lower-carbon growth path.  Support 
Box 1. Prior Actions for the Mexico Framework for Green Growth DPL  
The government will have agreed upon and implemented the following prior actions before the presentation of the 
loan to the Executive Board:  
 
Policy Area 1: Comprehensive Policy Framework for the Reduction of Emissions across Sectors: 
·
Approval and publication of the Special Program for Climate Change (
Programa Especial de Cambio 
Climático
 or PECC) which lays out a long-term vision for combating climate
change while establishing 
the sectoral level interventions that will result in emission reductions. 
 
Policy Area 2: Enabling and Monitoring Framework for Reduction of Emissions in Transport & Energy
:
Urban Transport:  
·
Resolution for the creation of PROTRAM including the creation of the Consultative Working Group 
(
Grupo de Trabajo Consultivo
). 
Renewable Energy and Energy Use: 
·
Adoption of the Renewable Energy Law which sets out the framework for promoting the broader use of 
renewable energy sources, including the establishment of a renewable fund 
·
Adoption of the Energy Efficiency Law which provides a framework and establishes responsibilities for 
the development of programs to promote the sustainable use of energy, including the establishment of 
the CONUEE, the agency with monitoring and oversight responsibility. 
 
Policy Area 3: Establishment of Financing Mechanisms for the Reduction of Emissions in Transport & Energy:
Urban Transport:  
·
Issuance of the Presidential Decree, 
Modifying Agreement and Operating Rules establishing FONADIN 
and its operating principles which creates the framework for the financing of federal transfers to urban 
mass transport programs. 
Renewable Energy and Energy Use: 
·
Establishment of
 The Fund for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy 
to promote 
financing and foster the implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects; and the
promulgation of the regulations to define the Fund’s operations. 
Page  4
for these policies is provided in the context of a comprehensive sector dialogue between the Bank and the 
Government of Mexico (GoM) in Energy and Urban Transport policy.  The Government has defined its 
strategy for emission reductions in its Special Climate Change Program (PECC).  The sectoral emphasis 
of the DPL
—on renewable energy, energy efficiency and urban transportation—is consistent with the 
PECC's priorities. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
Borrower/Recipient 
($m) 
 
0
IBRD
1,500
Total 1,500 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The implementing agency is the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.  Given the sectoral nature of the 
loan, participating institutions will also include the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources 
(SEMARNAT), the Ministry of Energy (SENER) and the directorate members of the Federal Program for 
Mass Transit (PROTRAM).  
 
The proposed program addresses the monitoring framework on two planes.  On one substantive level 
related to the over-all program objective, the DPL includes a Policy Area on institutional and regulatory 
arrangements that is itself focused on monitoring and evaluation.  It calls for the institutional and 
regulatory framework to establish baseline valuation of emissions and sector-level monitoring capacity 
for the emissions reduction program at the sectoral level.  In Urban Transport, the framework includes the 
adoption of guidelines for urban transport planning that mainstream climate change, and adoption of 
methodology guidelines for developing corridor emission baselines. In Energy, on the other hand, the 
monitoring framework includes the development of methodologies by the National Commission for the 
Efficient Use of Energy (CONUEE) for the quantification of GHG emissions for the exploitation, 
production, transformation, distribution, and consumption of energy, as well as for avoided emissions.  
 
On a second level, the program establishes clear monitoring and evaluation criteria for each of its 
proposed policy areas.  Because of the focus on policy, regulatory and institutional development, the 
majority of the monitoring steps involve one-step evaluation of program achievements.  The medium-
term objectives related to capacity development of financing mechanisms, however, require monitoring 
and evaluation criteria that signal the programs’ momentum and early success in promoting low emission 
programs in urban transport as well as energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
 
Because the implementation and sustainability of the Urban Transport program defined in the DPL is 
intricately linked to the implementation of the Government’s Urban Transport Transformation Program 
(supported by a World Bank SIL), the Monitoring and Evaluation of the relevant components of the 
Green Growth DPL and the SIL that is being implemented in parallel will be mutually reinforcing.  
Regarding the Energy sector programs supported by the DPL, each one of the sectoral Ministries and 
agencies involved in this operation (SHCP, SEMARNAT and SENER) will be responsible for the 
implementation of their proposed components and for reporting their progress.  The Ministry of 
Environment (SEMARNAT) will be responsible for the coordination among these agencies in the DPL.   
 
The implementation of the sector reforms and the regulatory framework embedded in the PECC and 
supported by the DPL is likely to require strong inter-institutional coordination capacity, horizontally as 
well as vertically.  In response to this anticipated need, the World Bank will be engaged through lending 
Page  5
instruments and technical assistance programs in supporting the Government of Mexico in implementing 
its Urban Transport, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs.
 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
The regulatory, institutional, financial and monitoring reforms supported by this loan are intended to 
ultimately help Mexico reach its GHG emission reduction targets while developing sustainable urban 
transport and energy sectors.  The policy actions supported by this DPL will create a favorable framework 
for private and public investment in renewable energy and mass transit systems and technologies, in turn, 
having a stimulative impact on the economy in the short-run.  Over the medium term, moreover, they will 
help achieve improvements in urban mobility and energy efficiency, thus improving the prospects for 
productivity growth.  
 
At the same time, there are a number of financial, economic, institutional, environmental and social risks 
that have been identified with respect to the successful implementation of the various sectoral programs 
supported by the DPL.  Among these of particular concern is the risk posed by the current sharp downturn 
of Mexico’s economy which could diminish the Government’s ability to finance sectoral programs.  In 
response to these concerns, the Government has confirmed that the projects and institutions supported by 
the DPL are given priority in its spending program and investment plans and has established several 
revenue stabilization funds.  In addition, the Government is preparing sister loans with the World Bank in 
Urban Transport and Energy Efficiency which will initiate the programs in question.   
 
The current financial crisis also poses a risk of insufficient private sector participation in the urban 
transport and energy sectors in the near future.  With support from the Green Growth DPL, the latest stage 
in the Government’s program actively mitigates this risk on several fronts.  The urban transport policies 
create a program of incentives to mobilize private investment in mass transit systems under a structure 
that will allow for profitability of the expected investments even at low and affordable tariff levels.  The 
sister investment programs supported by the World Bank provide technical and financial resources for the 
program.  In the energy sector, there is the possibility that emission reduction targets will not be achieved 
if the energy supply matrix cannot shift toward renewable sources, especially within a scenario of a lack 
of private interest in investment in renewable generation.  In turn, the long-term aims of the energy sector 
program may be at risk in the absence of reforms which facilitate private investment in generation based 
upon market prices for renewable energy.  These risks are being addressed through the new regulatory 
framework for Renewable Energy in which the Government, with support from the DPL, will derive a 
methodology for valuing renewable purchase prices and target levels for renewable generation that 
facilitate investment.  In addition, the Government program, the DPL and related technical assistance 
activities require the design of power purchasing arrangements that value the external costs of renewable 
energy, which will support the development of a market for private investment in renewable generation.  
Lastly, the Government is demonstrating its commitment to attracting the necessary investment through 
the creation and capitalization of the Fund for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy.  
Grants will be available for credit guarantees and other financial support to projects that comply with the 
National Strategy for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy.   
 
The key political and institutional risks pertain to the need for a high level of inter-institutional 
coordination -- horizontally, across sectoral agencies, and vertically, across federal, state and municipal 
governments -- as well as the implementation capacity of each institution individually.  In an effort to 
address these issues, the Bank is currently supporting the Government through capacity-building 
programs and investment lending to strengthen the ability of the institutions to plan, implement, and 
monitor sectoral programs.  The Urban Transport program, financed in part by a sister Bank SIL and 
CTF, provides incentives for municipal participation in the federally funded mass transit program as well 
as grant resources for urban master planning.  The Consultative Working Group of PROTRAM brings 
Page  6
together the federal agencies required to offer an integrated set of policies and financing instruments for 
urban development.  The final decisions on financing come from FONADIN’s Technical Committee 
which brings together state governments with the Environment Ministry and Transport Ministry under the 
leadership of the Ministry of Finance.  Likewise, the energy sector reforms underway and supported by 
this DPL strengthen the sector agencies responsible for the evolution of the renewable and efficiency 
programs, from the energy regulatory bodies, the Ministry of Energy, the Funds related to the financing 
support of the programs, and the environmental agency counterparts. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Aspects
 
Through its support to the strengthening of the regulatory, monitoring, and financial framework for low 
emissions evolution of the transport and energy sectors, this DPL—and the three policy areas that 
comprise the program—are expected to have significantly positive social impacts, particularly as it relates 
to policies that extend the availability of public transportation and reduce the energy bills of the poor.  On 
the urban transport side, the country faces the challenge of decreasing its urban transport GHG emissions 
while improving the transport system particularly in large cities where low quality of public transport 
services and heavy traffic mainly affect the poor urban population.   
 
The rationalization and expansion of public transport services in a country as urbanized as Mexico are 
expected to generate significant co-benefits related to: improved mobility for the poor who 
disproportionately rely on public transport; improved travel conditions and increased safety for 
passengers;
2
improved mobility for women who, more than men, depend on public transport; lesser 
overall street congestion and improved travel times; lower levels of particulate emissions;
3
and improved 
health impacts from lower exposure to air pollutants.  Additional positive social impacts of the 
development of mass transport systems will include better use of public space and associated urban 
renewal, which would benefit both passengers and urban dwellers in the areas influenced by these 
systems. 
 
On the distributive side, implementing a BRT implies transforming the current bus operators from a one-
bus-one-owner (
hombre-
camión) 
scheme to a more organized and efficient operation.  Under this scheme, 
Mexican law grants 
hombres-camiones 
solid rights on their bus and route permits.  However, with the 
implementation of the BRT, owners will have to sell their bus, which will then be scrapped in order to 
reduce the number of buses that compete with the new BRT, and they will have to capitalize to obtain the 
right to operate the new BRT.  Cities such as Mexico City and León have introduced mechanisms to help 
the existing owners transition to the new scheme.  For both men and women,
 
the transition’s impact has 
been mitigated through compensation such as support for capitalization and credits to finance the 
acquisition of new buses;
4
distribution of dividends to the 
hombres-camiones 
now dubbed shareholders, 
as a result of higher efficiency and economies of scale of the BRT; and increased work stability and 
benefits such as life insurance, health services, and retirement plans.  Finally, the neighborhoods along the 
routes of BRT systems also benefit from newly paved roads that are put in place for the feeder buses. 
 
2
Personal safety and the avoidance of harassment are 
major concerns for women public transit users. Mexico City’s 
BRT system, Metrobus, has an innovative gender component that includes “ladies-only” cars during rush hour. 
3
As shown by the 
Formulation of the Third Air Quality Management Plan
,
an IBRD-funded study in Mexico, 
obtaining air quality compliance with the WHO standards would yield health and environmental benefits of about 
US$2 billion per year. 
4
The financial model undertaken for the preparation of the UTTP shows that BRT lines are profitable for private 
investors at a fare of 5 pesos per ride. 
Page  7
The energy efficiency policies supported by this DPL are also likely to have significant positive and 
progressive social impacts through the reduction of electricity bills brought about by targeted replacement 
of high energy-use appliances and bulbs.  On renewable energy projects, it is conceivable that the policies 
supported in this program will lead to projects with negative social impacts for those living in and around 
a
site location while providing positive social impacts for others, including health benefits from lower 
particulate emissions, and increased electricity access, particularly for people living in isolated rural areas 
in the country’s Southern States. 
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
While addressing climate change issues, the proposed reforms are also likely to have significant positive 
environmental impacts that will be brought about through the building of incentives and regulations that 
reduce emissions and through the improvement of environmental licensing and regulations. In urban 
transport, the operation of well run and designed mass transit systems has the potential to reduce exposure 
to airborne pollutants and air toxics, the experience of Mexico City being a case in point.  According to 
the measurements conducted to estimate the effects of the METROBUS BRT operation on local 
pollutants, the concentrations of CO, PM
2.5
,
PM
10
,
and benzene decreased significantly.  The reasons for 
this significant reduction and associated health benefits from the METROBUS system include improved 
technologies with better emission controls, fewer stops than in the previous system, thus reducing major 
emissions during start-ups, and separate bus lanes and reduced generation of airborne pollutants in the 
area of influence of the corridor.   At the same time, however, although the DPL does not finance or elicit 
particular projects, downstream environmental impacts of BRT program and other mass transit systems 
include possible property requirements and disturbances during construction, such as higher emissions of 
particulate matter and traffic detours that increase travel time.  However, the prototypical Mexican city 
tends to have wide streets that can be adapted to one exclusive lane per direction for buses.  The width of 
the existing road usually makes it unnecessary to purchase nearby properties.  In downtown areas streets 
could be narrow, in which case the typical solution is to split the corridor in two and send one direction of 
travel along one street and the other direction of travel on a different street.  Therefore, no properties need 
to be purchased.  Impacts during construction, on the other hand, can be mitigated through adequate 
management plans that follow Mexican law.  
 
In the Energy sector, the environmental impacts expected from the implementation of Renewable Energy 
and Energy Efficiency programs, similarly, are significant and positive.  The adoption of RE and EE 
measures will provide a variety of local and regional air quality benefits through their role in reducing the 
use of fossil fuels for electricity generation.  Additionally, the replacement of fossil fuel-based generation 
is expected to reduce air pollution, reduce harm to public health and, potentially, enhance local ecosystem 
services. On the environmental impacts of scaling up wind power, specific relevant studies
5
are already 
underway.  
 
In its dialogue with the Government of Mexico, through these kinds of studies and through the MOUs 
with SENER (Energy) and Hacienda (Urban Transport), the Bank will continue to help the relevant 
agencies in developing a framework and, where necessary, the capacity to identify, assess, monitor and 
evaluate, and manage such effects with a view to mitigating any adverse effects and optimizing the 
positive.  Through the Energy Sector Management and Assistance Program (ESMAP), for instance, the 
World Bank has proposed to support the Government of Mexico, over the next two years, in identifying 
mechanisms to address environmental and social issues when developing energy projects, including the 
expected sharing of costs and benefits. 
 
5
For example, 
Guidelines for Scaling-up Wind Energy Development
 (P109850) and 
La Venta II
 (P080104). 
Page  8
The Bank has a long track record of engagement with the Government of Mexico to enhance the 
identification and management of infrastructure-related environmental impacts.  These efforts include 
improvements to the management of sectoral impacts associated with urban transport and energy projects 
–
such as the recently approved Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) prepared by 
the Government of Mexico, outlining comprehensive procedures for environmental and social 
management of, for example, urban transport investments supported through the UTTP, and large-scale 
wind investments in Oaxaca.  In addition to efforts to support environmental mainstreaming within the 
sectors, there is a long history of engagement with SEMARNAT, the federal environmental authority, to 
improve environmental regulation and management of infrastructure investments, including, for example, 
through promoting improved environmental licensing practices.  The Bank has also worked with the 
Government of Mexico to incorporate environmental and social management considerations at more 
programmatic and strategic levels, including through the recent engagement with the Federal Electricity 
Commission on incorporating Strategic Environmental Assessment into their planning process, as well as 
with SENER for management of their mini-hydroelectric portfolio.  Moreover, projects pushed forward 
by the Government of Mexico must prepare an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in compliance 
with the Mexican Environmental Law.
6
In sum, this DPL, supported by the Bank’s other investment and advisory efforts – and building on 
existing and ongoing engagement -- in Mexico’s energy and transport sectors, is expected to contribute 
positively to the sectors' ability to manage environmental and social impacts and risks, and to strengthen 
stakeholder engagement and transparency.
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Jordan 
Schwartz 
Title:  
Lead 
Economist 
Tel:  
202-458-0493 
Fax:  
202-614-1714 
Email:  
jschwartz3@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington 
DC 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
6
Ley General del Equilibrio Ecológico y la Protección al Ambiente.
 
Page  9
