                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 49491-MX




    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                 PROGRAM DOCUMENT


                                     FOR A PROPOSED


      FRAMEWORK FOR GREEN GROWTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.504 BILLION


                                              TO


                            THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES




                                     OCTOBER 14, 2009



Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective August 30, 2009)


                   Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                       MX$1.00 = US$0.075
                           US$1 = MX$13.3

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA         Analytical and Advisory Activities
AQM         Air Quality Management
BANOBRAS    Banco Nacional de Obras (National Bank for Public Works)
BANCOMEXT   Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (Foreign Trade Bank of
            Mexico)
BANSEFI     Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros SNC (National
            Bank of Savings and Financial Services SNC)
BRT         Bus Rapid Transit
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CC          Climate Change
CCDPL       Climate Change Development Policy Loan
CDM         Clean Development Mechanism
CF          Carbon Finance
CFE         Comisión Federal de Electricidad (Federal Commission for Electricity)
CFL         Compact Fluorescent Light
CH4         Methane
CICC        Comisión Intersecretarial de Cambio Climático (Inter-Secretarial
            Commission on Climate Change)
CIF         Climate Investment Fund
CO          Carbon Monoxide
CO2         Carbon Dioxide
CO2e        Carbon Dioxide Equivalent
COFEMER     Comisión Federal de Mejora Regulatoria (Federal Regulation
            Commission)
CONAE       Comisión Nacional para el Ahorro de Energia (National Commission
            for Energy Savings)
CONUEE      Comisión Nacional para el Uso Eficiente de Energía (National
            Commission for the Efficient Use of Energy)
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
CRE         Comisión Reguladora de Energía (Energy Regulatory Commission)
CTF         Clean Technology Fund
DA          Designated Account
DECDG       Development Economic Development Data Group
DF         Distrito Federal (Federal District)
DOF        Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette)
DPL        Development Policy Loan
ECLAC      Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
EE         Energy Efficiency
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
ENACC      Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático (National Climate Change
           Strategy)
ENVDPL     Programmatic Environmental Development Policy Loan
ENVSAL     Programmatic Environmental Structural Adjustment Loan
ERPA       Emissions Reductions Purchase Agreement
ESMAP      Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
FARAC      Fideicomiso de Apoyo al Rescate de Autopistas Concesionadas (Trust
           for Supporting the Recovery of Licensed Highways)
FCL        Flexible Credit Line
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
FINFRA     Fondo de Inversión en Infraestructura (Infrastructure Investment Fund)
FONADIN    Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura (National Infrastructure Fund)
FY         Fiscal Year
GAP        Gender Action Plan
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GEF-STAQ   Global Environmental Facility - Sustainable Transport and Air Quality
GHG        Greenhouse Gases
GoM        Government of Mexico
GTC        Grupo de Trabajo Consultivo (Consultative Working Group)
GW         Gigawatt
HC         Hydrocarbons
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IDF        Institutional Development Fund
IEA        International Energy Agency
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IFI        International Financial Institution
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INE        Instituto Nacional de Ecología (National Ecology Institute)
IP         Investment Plan
IPCC       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IPP        Independent Power Producer
ISCCS      Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Systems
ITP        Integrated Transport Plan
kWh        Kilowatt hour
LAC        Latin America and the Caribbean
LGEEPA     Ley General del Equilibrio Ecológico y la Protección al Ambiente
           (General Law of Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental
           Protection)
LyFC       Luz y Fuerza del Centro (Central Light and Power)
MASTU      Marco de Salvaguarda Ambiental y Social para el Proyecto Nacional
           de Transformación del Transporte Urbano Sustentable en México
           (Environmental and Social Management Framework for the Urban
           Transport Transformation Program)
MCMA       Mexico City Metropolitan Area
MEDEC      Mexico Low Carbon Study
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MtCO2e     Megatons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent
MW         Megawatt
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFIN      Nacional Financiera (National Financial Institution)
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NOx        Nitrogen Oxides
OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OLADE      Organización Latinoamericana de Energía (Energy Organization for
           Latin America)
PBL        Policy-Based Loan
PECC       Programa Especial de Cambio Climático (Special Program for Climate
           Change)
PEMEX      Petróleos Mexicanos (Mexican Petroleum Company)
PEF        Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación (Federal Expenditure
           Budget)
PFM        Public Financial Management
PM         Particulate Matter
PM2.5      Particles smaller than 2.5 microns
PM10       Particles smaller than 10 microns
PND        Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Plan)
PROTRAM    Programa de Apoyo Federal al Transporte Masivo (Federal Support
           Program for Mass Transit)
PSBR       Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
PSP        Private Sector Participation
RE         Renewable Energy
REMTI      Renewable Energy Management Transition Initiative
RMBS       Residential Mortgage Backed Security
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SCT        Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Ministry of
           Communications and Transport)
SEDESOL    Secretaría de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SEMARNAT   Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Ministry of the
           Environment and Natural Resources)
SENER      Secretaría de Energía (Ministry of Energy)
SHCP       Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Ministry of Finance and
         Public Credit)
SHF      Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal
SICC     Social Impacts of Climate Change
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SOx      Sulfur Oxides
SO2      Sulfur Dioxide
STAQ     Sustainable Transport and Air Quality
TESOFE   Tesorería de la Federación (Treasury)
UK       United Kingdom
UN       United Nations
UNFCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
UT       Urban Transport
UTTP     Urban Transport Transformation Program
VOC      Volatile Organic Compound
WHO      World Health Organization




                Vice President:   Pamela Cox
             Country Director:    Gloria M. Grandolini
               Sector Director:   Laura Tuck
              Sector Manager:     Philippe Benoit
                Sector Leader:    Gustavo Saltiel
            Task Team Leader:     Jordan Schwartz
         Co-Task Team Leader:     Arturo Ardila-Gómez
         Co-Task Team Leader:     Ariel Yepez-García
                                                       MEXICO

      FRAMEWORK FOR GREEN GROWTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                               TABLE OF CONTENTS


LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ................................................................................. i 
I.     INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................... - 1 - 
II.  COUNTRY CONTEXT............................................................................................ - 3 - 
       RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN MEXICO ........................................ - 3 - 
       MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ..................... - 4 - 
III.  THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES... - 6 - 
IV.  BANK’S SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM ........................... - 22 - 
       SUMMARY UPDATE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CPS .................. - 22 - 
       LINK TO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY............................................. - 23 - 
       COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ........................... - 24 - 
       RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS ........................................... - 26 - 
       ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS ....................................................................... - 31 - 
       LESSONS LEARNED.............................................................................................. - 33 - 
V.  THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK FOR GREEN GROWTH DPL ................. - 34 - 
       OPERATION DESCRIPTION ................................................................................. - 34 - 
       POLICY AREAS ...................................................................................................... - 39 - 
VI.  OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION ................................................................... - 47 - 
       POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ....................................................................... - 47 - 
       ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ................................................................................ - 49 - 
       IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION .............................. - 51 - 
       FIDUCIARY ASPECTS ........................................................................................... - 52 - 
       DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ...................................................................... - 53 - 
       RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION .......................................................................... - 53 - 
                                                          ANNEXES

ANNEX     LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ..................................................... - 57 - 
              1:
ANNEX     OPERATION POLICY MATRIX ................................................................. - 59 - 
              2:
ANNEX     FUND RELATIONS NOTE .......................................................................... - 62 - 
              3:
ANNEX     RELATIONSHIP OF OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS ................. - 64 - 
              4:
ANNEX     MACROECONOMIC, FISCAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR CONTEXT - 71 - 
              5:
ANNEX     PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS AND PARTICIPATION ............................... - 81 - 
              6:
ANNEX     PRIORITIES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE GREEN GROWTH DPL AND
              7:
          MEXICO’S INVESTMENT PLAN FOR THE CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND
          (CTF) .............................................................................................................. - 83 - 
ANNEX 8: STATUS OF LENDING PROGRAM ........................................................... - 87 - 
ANNEX 9: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ......................................................................... - 94 - 
ANNEX 10: MAP SECTION .............................................................................................. - 97 - 
                   LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY


                        The United Mexican States
           Framework for Green Growth Development Policy Loan



Borrower           The United Mexican States
Implementing
                   Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Agency

                   US$1.504 billion variable spread, U.S dollar-denominated
Financing Data     loan, 16.5 years of grace with bullet repayment in year 17.
                   Front-end fee: 0.25 percent of the loan amount, capitalized.

Operation Type     Single Tranche Development Policy Loan

Main Policy
                   Climate Change, Energy, Transport
Areas

                   Regulatory/Institutional, Financial and   Monitoring
Key Outcome
                   Framework for Low Emissions Growth in Urban Transport
Indicators
                   and Energy

                   The Overall Program Development Objective is to support the
                   Government of Mexico’s program to further develop the regulatory,
                   monitoring and financial framework for low emissions evolution of the
                   transport and energy sectors.
                   The three Policy Areas of the DPL thus aim to:
                     implement a verifiable, targeted and cross-sectoral strategy for emission
Program                reductions;
Development          establish institutions, regulations and monitoring capacity to allow for
                       the reduction of emissions in urban transport, energy generation and
Objective(s) and       efficiency; and
Contribution to      institutionalize the appropriate financing mechanisms to allow for the
CPS                    reduction of emissions in urban transport, energy generation and
                       efficiency.

                   The DPL fits within the framework outlined in the CPS, which states that
                   the implementation of the Government’s climate change strategy could be
                   supported by a possible stand-alone second phase climate change DPL,
                   among other interventions.




                                           i
                 A series of financial, economic, institutional, environmental and social
                 risks are considered in the risk matrix as well as the on-going and
                 proposed actions to mitigate those risks. Among those of particular
                 concern is the risk posed by the current sharp downturn of Mexico’s
                 economy which could diminish the Government’s ability to finance
                 sectoral programs. In response to these concerns, the Government has
                 confirmed that the projects and institutions supported by the DPL are
                 given priority in its spending program and investment plans and has
                 established several revenue stabilization funds.       In addition, the
                 Government is preparing sister loans with the World Bank in Urban
                 Transport and Energy Efficiency which will initiate the programs in
                 question.

                 The long-term aims of the program may be at risk in the absence of
                 reforms which facilitate private investment in generation based upon
                 market prices for renewable energy.             To mitigate this risk, the
                 Government program supported by the DPL and related technical
                 assistance activities, require the design of power purchasing arrangements
                 that value the external costs of renewable energy. This will support the
                 development of a market for private investment in renewable generation.
                 On the supply side, the financial crisis also raises the risk that private
                 sector participation in the urban transport and energy sectors will be
                 insufficient in the near future. With support from the Green Growth DPL,
                 the latest stage in the Government’s program actively mitigates this risk
                 on several fronts. The Urban Transport policies create a program of
                 incentives to mobilize private investment in mass transit systems under a
Risks and Risk   structure that will allow for profitability of the expected investments even
                 at low and affordable tariff levels. The sister investment programs
Mitigation
                 supported by the World Bank provide technical and financial resources for
                 the program. In the Energy sector, there is the possibility that emission
                 reduction targets will not be achieved if the energy supply matrix cannot
                 shift toward renewable sources. Embedded in this scenario, is the risk of a
                 lack of private interest in investment in renewable generation. This risk is
                 being addressed through the new regulatory framework for Renewable
                 Energy in which the Government, with support from the DPL, will derive
                 a methodology for valuing renewable purchase prices and target levels for
                 renewable generation that facilitate investment.           In addition, the
                 Government is demonstrating its commitment to attracting the necessary
                 investment through the creation and capitalization of the Fund for the
                 Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy. Grants will be
                 available for credit guarantees and other financial support to projects that
                 comply with the National Strategy for the Energy Transition and the
                 Sustainable Use of Energy.

                 The key political and institutional risks pertain to the need for a high level
                 of inter-institutional coordination across sectoral agencies and vertically
                 across federal, state and municipal governments as well as the
                 implementation capacity of each institution individually. In an effort to
                 address these issues, the Bank is currently supporting the Government
                 through capacity-building programs and investment lending that strengthen
                 the ability of the institutions to plan, implement, and monitor sectoral
                 programs. The Urban Transport program, financed in part by a sister Bank
                 SIL and CTF under preparation, provides incentives for municipal
                 participation in the federally funded mass transit program as well as grant
                 resources for urban master planning. The Consultative Working Group of


                                        ii
               PROTRAM brings together the federal agencies required to offer an
               integrated set of policies and financing instruments for urban development.
               The final decisions on financing come from FONADIN’s Technical
               Committee which brings together state governments with the Environment
               Ministry and Transport Ministry under the leadership of the Ministry of
               Finance. Likewise, the energy sector reforms underway and supported by
               this DPL strengthen the sector agencies responsible for the evolution of the
               renewable and efficiency programs, from the energy regulatory bodies, the
               Ministry of Energy, the Funds related to the financing support of the
               programs, and the environmental agency counterparts.


Operation ID   P115608




                                     iii
                                              MEXICO
    FRAMEWORK FOR GREEN GROWTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                     I.    INTRODUCTION


1.      To address the challenges posed by climate change, Mexico has publicly
committed to reducing its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. The country has ratified
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol,
and is one of the first developing countries to commit to a specific carbon reduction
target through the use of clean and efficient technologies. As part of its voluntary
commitment to GHG emission reductions, Mexico also plans a domestic cap-and-trade
system by 2012 to abate emissions from point sources.

2.     At the January 2009 meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, President
Calderón restated the Government’s target to halve GHG emissions by 2050 depending
on financial international cooperation and on international agreements on mitigation.
This commitment has been hailed by the UNFCCC General Secretariat as an example of
a long-term vision for sustainable development. Moreover, in August 2009, the
Government of Mexico formally committed itself to a detailed plan for emission
reductions embedded in the Special Program for Climate Change (Programa Especial de
Cambio Climático, or PECC) that provides an accounting of emissions by sector, creates
a framework for monitoring improvements and establishes a blueprint for emission
reduction initiatives, sector by sector1. As a result of its leadership in this area, Mexico
has been ranked fourth in the world in the independent Climate Performance Index,
which assesses country performance based on: per capita GHG emission trends in the
energy, transport, residential and industrial sectors; absolute energy-related GHG
emissions; and climate policy.

3.      Building on the existing climate change mitigation policy agenda and a nascent
set of sector-levels interventions that address Mexico’s GHG emissions, it is now
essential to begin to lock in the reforms in the sectors that weigh most heavily in the
country’s carbon footprint.2 The proposed Green Growth DPL supports Government
reform in the transport and energy sectors, which are the greatest sources of Mexico’s
GHG emissions, accounting for approximately 18 percent and 27 percent of the total,
respectively.3 The policy actions supported by this Development Policy Loan (DPL)


1
  The PECC was published in the Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette) on August 28th, 2009.
2
  Carbon footprint, herein defined as "the total set of GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions caused directly and
indirectly by an individual, organization, event or product" (UK Carbon Trust 2008 "Carbon
Footprinting"). For an analysis of the several definitions of carbon footprint see:
http://www.isa-research.co.uk/docs/ISA-UK_Report_07-01_carbon_footprint.pdf
3
  Of Mexico’s total GHG emissions, 18 percent are emitted by the transport sector overall; however, urban
transport accounts for a significant share of this total. Energy represents 27 percent of total emissions—
2/3’s of which comes from the electricity sector (Special Program for Climate Change, 2009.)

                                                  -1-
create a favorable framework for private and public investment in renewable energy and
mass transit systems and technologies. These investments have a stimulative impact on
the economy in the short-run, and over the medium term, the resulting improvements in
urban mobility and energy efficiency improve the prospects for productivity growth.

4.       More specifically, the DPL proposed in this Program Document supports the
Government of Mexico in its long-term commitment to fighting Climate Change as laid
out in the PECC through green sectoral policies, incentives and regulations—particularly
as they relate to the reduction of Greenhouse Gas emissions. The timing of this support
is crucial. Mexico, like many countries in the region, has committed itself to initiating
infrastructure investments that combat the effects of the financial crisis on the Mexican
economy. While infrastructure investment has been shown to generate employment and
provide economic stimulus, the programs implemented during times of crisis may have
mixed long term effects on the environment. The effects depend upon the policies,
regulations and incentives that underpin those investments. An aggressive expansion of
road networks, for example, could contribute to individual automobile use in the medium
to long-term and lead to higher levels of GHG emissions as economic activity returns to
its pre-crisis levels. Similarly, with energy prices at about half the level of the previous
year, fast expansion of energy generation through thermal sources might seem expedient
if long-term goals of GHG reduction are not valued and policies are not put in place that
facilitate renewable generation.

5.      Remarkably, throughout the deepening economic crisis, the Government of
Mexico has explicitly retained—even strengthened—its commitment to the development
of infrastructure policies that combat climate change and reduce GHG. At the heart of
this long-term vision is a set of transport and energy sector reforms that are being
promulgated with the dangers of Climate Change in clear focus. This DPL sets out to
respond to the Government’s specific request for support of the key sectoral reforms that
underpin the vision to help Mexico lock-in long-term sustainable growth benefits in the
face of short-term financial pressures. In addition, this DPL is an integral part of a
scaled-up financing package for Mexico that responds to the current macro-economic
conditions of the country which are explained in detail in Annex 5.

6.      As a single-tranche operation, the DPL provides part of the resources necessary
for stimulating the economy while acknowledging the important steps being undertaken
by the Government of Mexico to develop Urban Transport and Energy policies that
combat climate change and reduce GHG and other emissions. Moreover, the Green
Growth DPL serves as an umbrella policy operation that will be accompanied by two
Specific Investment Loans (SILs) and two Clean Technology Funds (CTFs), both under
preparation, in urban transport and energy efficiency, as well as a wide range of support
being provided through advisory services in environmental capacity building, energy and
transportation.4



4
 The linkages between the Green Growth DPL and the other ongoing technical assistance and investment
operations, including Mexico’s the CTF program, are explained in greater detail in Annexes 4 and 7.

                                                -2-
                                 II.    COUNTRY CONTEXT

RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN MEXICO

7.     Despite stable economic conditions over the last several years,5 the Mexican
economy is being severely impacted by the current global economic downturn. It now
confronts the impact of sharp aggregate demand contraction in its major trading partners
and continued strain in global financial conditions. Annual economic growth decelerated
substantially as the economy entered into a recession towards the second half of 2008,
leading to a more limited GDP growth of 1.3 percent for the year. The current base case
scenario for Mexico includes a contraction of annual GDP by 6.8 percent in 2009 before
a modest rebound of economic activity in 2010.

8.      In response to these challenges, the Mexican authorities have implemented
counter-cyclical fiscal stimulus policies to mitigate the impact of the external demand
shock on the domestic economy. The fiscal stimulus policies adopted include additional
public investment in infrastructure incorporated in the 2009 budget as well as
employment programs, a reduction and freeze of public sector administrated prices in the
energy sector and an expansion of development banks’ credit programs. The 2009
budget implies a fiscal stimulus at about 1.5 percent of GDP6 and is financed, in part, by
increased public sector borrowing. In addition, monetary policy started to ease since
January 2009 in order to support other efforts to reduce the downturn in economic
activity.

9.      The authorities also have taken several actions to maintain orderly conditions on
foreign exchange and domestic financial markets in view of the unprecedented global
financial shocks. The central bank intervened in foreign exchange markets providing
foreign currency liquidity to the private sector. Bilateral and multilateral support,
through a US$30 billion currency swap arrangement with the US Federal Reserve
(recently extended until February 2010) and a US$47 billion Flexible Credit Line (FCL)
with the IMF, provide for additional precautionary sources of external funds.
Announcement of the FCL last April greatly reduced volatility of the peso.

10.     Despite the significant challenges posed by the global economic downturn and
strained financial conditions, the macroeconomic policy framework is adequate for the
purposes of the proposed Development Policy Loan. This Green Growth DPL responds
to the country’s needs under the current economic panorama and is consistent with the
policies that have been put in place to mitigate the effects of the Mexican economy’s
slowdown.



5
  Mexico’s GDP growth averaged 3.8 percent during 2004-2007 and the economy enjoyed a stable
currency, inflation of 3.8 percent in 2007, low levels of external indebtedness as a share of GDP, declining
public debt ratios and a sovereign credit rating two steps above the lowest investment grade.
6
  The State of Public Finances: A Cross-Country Fiscal Monitor, IMF July 30, 2009. Recently announced
spending cuts, to an amount of 0.7 percent of GDP, in response to revenue pressures and focused on
personnel and administrative costs slightly modified the size of the fiscal stimulus.

                                                   -3-
MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

11.    The current economic recession is characterized by a simultaneous sharp
contraction in private consumption, investment and exports. While the latter is due to a
more generalized drop in external demand and international trade, the rapid tightening in
domestic demand can be attributed to increased uncertainty regarding global and
domestic economic prospects, increased unemployment, reduced availability of credit,
increased unemployment and significant currency depreciation.

12.     With additional data becoming available, there seems to be an emerging
consensus on the depth of the current global economic downturn, even though there
remains considerable uncertainty with regards to the strength of the current rebound.
Assumptions regarding the external environment have a major impact on the projection
of Mexico’s main macroeconomic variables over the next few years. A base case
scenario (Table 1) follows the Bank’s Unified Survey Assumption of September 2009 for
global economic activity.7 The impact of such an external scenario on the Mexican
economy is a significant recession in 2009 and a modest rebound by 2010 and 2011. The
sharp reduction in the external demand in the base case scenario in 2009 is reflected in a
significant contraction in the dollar value of exports, with the value of oil exports mainly
declining as a result of lower oil prices whereas non-oil exports largely decline due to
lower volumes of production and trade. The latter in combination with tighter credit
conditions (both external and domestic) is projected to lead to a simultaneous sharp
contraction of private consumption and investment. Countercyclical government
expenditures cannot prevent a sharp contraction of aggregate demand and economic
activity in 2009.

13.     A gradual recovery of external demand by 2010 should allow, on the contrary, for
an increase of manufactured exports, private consumption and investment demand
providing for a modest expansion of overall economic activity. Risks to this scenario are
largely tilted towards the downside and a second, low case scenario provides for the
impact on Mexican macroeconomic indicators in case of a sharper reaction in terms of
the domestic demand contraction in the short run and a more protracted recession in its
largest trading partner and the global economy, reflected in a less vigorous rebound in the
volume of exports and a lower international oil price in 2010 and 2011.




7
 World output is projected to fall by 2.5 percent in 2009 and experience a gradual recovery in 2010 when
growth is picking up to 2.3 percent. Similarly output in the United States is projected to contract by
2.5 percent in 2009 before rebounding by 2.3 percent in 2010.

                                                 -4-
Table 1 Macroeconomic scenarios
                                                              Baseline                      Low Case
Indicator                                    2008      2009        2010    2011      2009        2010     2011
Real GDP (%)                                 1.4%     -6.8%        3.0%    3.5%     -8.5%        2.0%     2.5%
Consumption (%).                             1.4%     -6.3%        3.2%    3.4%     -8.9%        1.6%     2.5%
Investment (%)                               5.3%    -15.9%        5.5%    5.0%    -16.5%        4.0%     4.0%
External Accounts
Merchandise Exports Current (US$ billion)    291.8    216.2      234.4     270.7    210.3        223.3    257.2
   Oil Exports (US$ billion)                  50.6     27.9        31.3     32.7     26.6         24.3     24.3
   Non Oil Exports (US$ billion)             241.2    188.3       203.1    238.0    183.7        199.1    232.9
Merchandise Imports Current (US$ billion)   308.6     229.4      251.7     291.3    217.1        234.4    272.3
Remittances (US$ billion)                     25.1     22.4        24.9     25.9     21.4         23.8     24.8
Current Account Balance (US$ billion)        -15.8    -14.0       -17.2    -20.3     -9.2        -12.5    -17.0
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)          -1.5%    -1.6%       -1.8%    -1.9%    -1.1%        -1.4%    -1.7%
FDI (US$ billion)                            22.48    16.86       18.50    21.00    13.49        15.50    18.00
Gross Reserves (US$ billion)                 85.4     81.0        82.0     82.7     81.0         79.2     80.5
External Debt (% of GDP)                    16.5%    22.6%       22.3%    22.7%    23.5%        23.5%    24.1%
Public Sector
Public Expenditure (%)                       4.2%     1.5%        0.0%     4.3%     1.5%        -2.9%     3.4%
PSBR Balance (% GDP)                        -2.1%    -3.0%       -3.4%    -3.1%    -3.1%        -3.3%    -3.2%
Public Sector Debt (% GDP)                  35.8%    39.9%       40.5%    40.8%    40.5%        41.0%    41.6%
Prices
Inflation (e.o.p.) (%)                       6.5%     4.4%        4.0%     3.3%     5.0%         4.7%     3.5%
Nominal Exchange Rate (pesos/dll)            11.1     13.5        13.0     13.0     13.8         13.5     13.5
Oil Price (US$ per barrel)                   86.3     52.0        58.9     61.5     52.0         48.0     48.0



14.     In either scenario concerns are focused on the rising fiscal pressures in view of the
rapidly deteriorating outlook for public sector revenue and the increasing public
debt-to-GDP ratios. Fiscal discipline and strong fiscal policy frameworks, including the
establishment of stabilization funds and the acquisition of oil price hedges, enabled a
countercyclical policy response for 2009. The sharp economic contraction, the
depreciation of the currency and a higher fiscal deficit contribute further to an increase of
the public debt-to-GDP ratio in 2009.

15.     Like many countries, Mexico faces the challenge of unwinding its fiscal stimulus
in a way that does not jeopardize the economic recovery. Mexico has fewer degrees of
freedom for charting this path, as compared to other countries. Even though there has
been some room for an increase of public debt and the public debt-to-GDP ratio, the rapid
increase and level to be attained by the latter by 2010 and 2011 suggests limits to
possibilities of fiscal stimulus. In this regard, policymakers face a difficult trade-off
between early fiscal consolidation that may aggravate the contraction of the domestic
economy and a market reaction (as already expressed by credit rating agencies) that
demand a clear and credible medium-term fiscal strategy of revenue-enhancing measures
or sustainable spending cuts to compensate for the lower public sector revenue.

16.     Public debt remains within manageable proportions despite a significant increase
in the debt-to-GDP ratio until 2011. Debt sustainability analysis, based on average levels
of economic growth, the primary balance and the real interest rate on public debt
observed over the decade previous to the current economic crisis and applied to the
debt-to-GDP ratios observed in the base and low case scenario by 2011, shows a return to
a downward path of the debt-to-GDP as of 2012.


                                                     -5-
17.     The latest assessment by the IMF’s Executive Board and a more detailed annex
by Bank staff describing Mexico’s macro-economic situation can be found in Annexes 3
and 5, respectively.


          III.    THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY
                                 PROCESSES

18.     The Mexican Government’s commitment to addressing Climate Change is
evidenced by the specific emissions targets established in the National Climate Change
Strategy and the steady march from broad policy to regulatory framework, institutional
development and sectoral programs. In order to build coherent sectoral strategies for
addressing Climate Change, in April 2005 Mexico established the Inter-Secretarial
Commission on Climate Change (Comisión Inter-secretarial de Cambio Climático –
CICC), with a mandate to formulate and coordinate national climate change strategies
and their incorporation into sectoral programs. Associated with the CICC is a
Consultative Council on Climate Change which creates a link between the CICC, the
scientific community and civil society. The participatory process that defines the
activities of the Consultative Council assures that the strategies and sector programs are
developed with due consultation for potentially affected parties.

Public Consultations

19.     The design of the Framework for Green Growth DPL has benefitted from a
long-standing consultation process carried out by the Government in the context of the
National Development Plan (NDP) as well as the Special Climate Chance Program
(PECC, Programa Especial de Cambio Climático). The public consultation of the PECC
was carried out from March 24 to June 18, 2009 (see Annex 6). Comments and
suggestions from ninety seven persons and institutions were recorded in the
Environmental Ministry’s web page including participants from schools, universities,
research centers, NGOs, private sector firms, national and sub-national government
officials, and rural producers’ organizations. The Government of Mexico has also invited
the scientific community and civil society to conform a Consultative Council to ensure
that strategies and sector programs are developed with due consultation with potentially
affected parties.

20.     Consultations, including with relevant UN agencies and representatives of the
countries engaged in Climate Change-related activities in Mexico, were carried out also
as part of the preparation of Mexico’s Investment Plan (IP) for the Clean Technology
Fund (CTF), which identifies programs to be co-financed by the CTF jointly with the
World Bank, the IFC, and the IDB in the Urban Transport and Energy Sectors.8
Similarly, public discussions were held with the scientific community and civil society in
the context of creating the inter-Secretarial Commission on Climate Change, while


8
    See Annex 7 for the summary of the activities proposed to be financed under Mexico’s CTF IP.

                                                    -6-
preparing for launching the Mexico Social Impacts of Climate Change (SICC) Report,
and during the process of designing a Social and Environmental Framework (MASTU)
for the Urban Transport Program.9

PECC Policy Areas

21.      The Government of Mexico has designed the PECC to be its over-arching strategy
for combating climate change. The PECC sets out a four pillar program that includes
(i) a long-term vision for government action; (ii) sectoral plans for GHG mitigation;
(iii) plans for adaptation; and (iv) cross-cutting policy initiatives. Under the long-term
vision, the PECC establishes the formal objective of reducing GHG by 50 percent by
2050 against the baseline of 2000. The first phase of the long-term vision is defined in
the PECC as the period 2008 – 2012 in which the Government’s program will focus on:
          Evaluation of the vulnerability of the country to Climate Change, and
          Economic valuation of the priority measures for intervention.

22.     At the sectoral level, in order to prioritize the proposed interventions for
mitigation, the PECC quantifies the sectoral contributions to emissions in Mexico and
projects their continued contribution to growing emissions under different scenarios of
intervention. Figure 1 below illustrates the sectoral breakdown—highlighting the central
and growing role of transport and electricity—in Mexico’s current and future emissions
profile under a “do-nothing” scenario.

            Figure 1: Base Case Growth in Emissions in Mexico, by Sector (2000-2050)




                            Source: PECC Consultative Draft, March 2009.

23.     In establishing a plan to stabilize and reduce GHG emissions, the PECC identifies
the interventions necessary at the sectoral and sub-sectoral level, quantifying the potential



9
    Annex 6 provides a more detailed summary of the Public Consultation and Participation process.

                                                    -7-
impact and cost of each change in policy, regulation and technology adoption. The Plan
identifies four groups of policy interventions according to impact and cost of
implementation as illustrated in the diagram below:


            PECC Division of Interventions According to Size of Impact
                            and Cost of Intervention

                              Lower Hanging Fruit:                     Higher Hanging Fruit:
                            Interventions that Pay for                 Interventions that May
                          Themselves through Significant                Contain Costs beyond
                                   Co-benefits                            their Co-benefits

                                        Group 1                                  Group 3
                                Between US$5 and                       Between US$32 net cost
       High Impact:          US$33 net benefit per tCO2e                and US$12 net benefit
     > 3 million metric                                                      per tCO2e
                          Infrastructure
      tons per year of     Mass Transit and Public Transport        Infrastructure
      CO2e reduction       Residential & Commercial Energy           Renewable Energy Generation
                             Efficiency
                                                                     Agriculture/Forestry
                          Industrial                                  Reduced Deforestation
                           Co-generation in Industry, Petrol, Gas



                                        Group 2                                  Group 4
                                Between US$24 and                       Between US$7 and
                             US$65 net benefits per tCO2e             US$17 net cost per tCO2e
       Low Impact:
     < 3 million metric   Infrastructure                             Industrial and Infrastructure
      tons per year of     Municipal Services and Industrial         CO2 Capture and Storage
                             Energy Efficiency
      CO2e reduction       Electricity Transmission &
                             Distribution
                                                                     Agriculture/Forestry
                          Industrial and Commercial
                           Light Duty Vehicle Efficiency
                                                                      Reforestation

          Source: PECC Consultative Draft (March 2009); Bank illustration


24.     The matrix highlights the potential for several sectoral initiatives to pay for
themselves. That is, those policies and programs that fall into Groups 1 and 2 will
produce reductions in CO2e emissions that also provide economic and social
co-benefits—such as those from improved health benefits, lower energy prices or greater
urban mobility—that are greater than the outlays in public transfers. Groups 3 and 4 will
require longer-term commitment of resources although the Government recognizes the
benefits—particularly in Group 3—to be crucial to the Climate Change strategy. The
primary infrastructure area in Group 3 is renewable energy, a recognition that the pricing
of contracts for renewable generation—particularly in the periods prior to the

                                                 -8-
implementation of a cap and trade regime—will have to value the external benefits of
emission reductions in order to attract sufficient private sector interest.

25.    The cumulative effects of the implementation of the proposed policy changes in
the PECC—which include urban transport development, energy efficiency
improvements, renewable energy, reduced deforestation, adoption of new industrial
processes as well as other measures that produce varying levels of emission reduction—
can be seen in Figure 2 below.

           Figure 2: Alternative Scenarios in Total Emissions in Mexico (2000-2050)




                         Source: PECC Consultative Draft, March 2009.



26.    Two key sectors are targeted under the PECC, namely the transport (in particular
the urban transport sub-sector) and energy sectors, which together represent about
45 percent of Mexico’s GHG emissions.

Urban Transport: Issues and Government Programs

27.     With 77 percent of its population living in cities, Mexico is one of the most
urbanized countries in the developing world.10 Congestion, long commuting periods,
pollution and the related health effects are a common feature of everyday life for tens of
millions of Mexicans. Nonetheless, the federal government does not directly control the
development of municipal services, even if it recognizes that mass transit programs are a
key ingredient in fostering Mexico’s growth and improving the quality of life for
Mexico’s poor. In effect, the ultimate responsibility for the implementation of urban
transport policies rests with the states and municipalities, and local government support is
key for both the Climate Change and the mobility agendas. The transport program
supported under this DPL explicitly accounts for this aspect by offering strong financial
incentives for cities to implement their urban transport programs with inherent climate
benefits as well as capacity support in the design of integrated mass transit programs.



10
     World Bank DEC DCLD Database.

                                               -9-
28.     Over the last 17 years, Mexico has embarked on ambitious and region-leading
plans to develop its transport infrastructure, concessioning its major highways, ports, and
railroads and raising the capacity and quality of services offered in nearly every mode.
Throughout that period, however, the urban transport agenda has remained stunted—
particularly in the secondary and tertiary cities of the country. Public transport remains
uncoordinated, organized around individual owners of buses that receive authorization
from the local government to operate in a route. This arrangement typically leads to
more buses than necessary, high pollution and fuel consumption, high travel times,
retention of old buses beyond their useful life and high accident rates due to the
competition for passengers. Moreover, dedicated infrastructure for public transport--be it
light rail systems, metros, or dedicated bus lanes--still remains uncommon.

29.     In recent months, however, the dynamics around federal-municipal relations and
the development of urban transport systems that achieve the combined goals of pollution
and congestion reduction have begun to shift. This is in large part due to the rising
national importance given to the Climate Change agenda and the growing recognition, as
detailed in the PECC, that Mexico’s targets related to emission reductions cannot be
achieved without directly addressing urban transport practices. On the back of the
Climate Change agenda, the Mexican Government is leveraging the growing rates of
transport sector emissions as a rallying point for achieving the multiple co-benefits of
urban transport reform.

30.    Mexico’s transport emissions increased by 27 percent between 1990 and 2005.
They now account for about 2 percent of the global transport sector’s GHG emissions and
18 percent of Mexico’s emissions.11 Emissions continue to grow at an annual rate of
about 2 percent. The carbon intensity of the transport sector in Mexico is at the high end
of those in the region. The relatively high carbonization and, consequently, large
contribution of the transport sector to the country’s carbon footprint can be attributed to
such factors as:
          Mexico’s growing motorization rate--the highest in Latin America with
           107 vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants;
          increased road congestion;
          the composition of the public transport fleet, which favors smaller-capacity
           vehicles and includes a growing share of older vehicles;
          inadequate fuel specifications that impede improvements in energy efficiency and
           reduction of airborne pollutants; and
          inadequate regulation of emissions for cars, trucks, and motorcycles.

31.    In addition, high levels of urban air pollution are exacerbated by inefficient
transport and represent a major health and environmental concern in Mexican cities. In
spite of technological improvements in fuel compounds and the fulfillment of its
environmental legal framework, according to recent emission inventories, automobiles
account for 52 percent of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions, 40 percent of hydrocarbon


11
     Transport and Climate, World Bank (2007).

                                                 - 10 -
(HC) emissions, and about 36 percent of particulate (PM) emissions. The transport sector
is also the largest generator of methane (CH4) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs),
making it the primary source of Mexico’s infamous air pollution.12

32.     Mexico has aggressive emission reduction targets in transport. Therefore, a
highly visible, sector-level policy commitment will be required followed by years of
concerted effort and management that will cross several political administrative terms.
The demand-side, or driver incentive, elements of the shift toward lower emissions
behavior will constitute an important parallel set of policies and regulations to the mass
transit development program. The growing ease of access to second-hand cars, as a result
of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), presents a particular challenge.

33.     The NAFTA commitments obligate Mexico to allow the importation of used
vehicles from the U.S. and Canada according to a specific schedule. As of January 2009,
Mexico must, and does, allow the importation of used vehicles which are 10 years or
older. This minimum age increases by 2-year increments until 2019, at which time
Mexico is obligated to accept all used vehicle imports, regardless of age, a considerable
source of pollution. In addition, the illegal importation of cars to Mexico is common
given the ease with which cars can be brought across the northern border. It is estimated
that almost a third of all vehicles operating in Mexico were imported used, mostly from
the U.S. The average age of these used vehicles is 18 years, and over half are illegal and
unregistered in Mexico.13

34.      In light of Mexico’s commitment to curbing GHG emissions, the Government is
developing a policy response to the importation of used cars that is multi-pronged.
Although the PECC does not require explicit solutions to address the issue, several
policies are under consideration within the framework of increasing the cost of
purchasing and driving a used car. First is the use of federal regulatory tools, such as
tougher tail-pipe emissions standards and expanding municipal schemes, for example,
Mexico City’s “hoy-no-circula.” In this scheme, new cars are allowed to circulate all the
time, but used cars face restrictions. Mexico has also begun strengthening its regulations
for tail pipe emissions (for example NOM 041-SEMARNAT-2006), which also includes
provision for addressing modified engines. Second, state governments can charge taxes
from users of illegal used cars. This policy, attempted already by cities such as Tijuana,
can also lead to the confiscation of the car. Effective scrapping programs ensure the old
car does not circulate again.




12
   Air pollution results mostly from a high concentration of ozone, produced by the reaction of VOCs and
NOx in the presence of sunlight; carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and
hydrocarbons (HC) emitted by vehicles fueled with gasoline and diesel; sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted by
industrial processes and commercial services using liquid industrial fuels; and PM in the form of particles
smaller than 10 microns (PM10) emitted by stationary and mobile sources using diesel and other fuels.
13
   Sources: North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Annex 300-A: Trade and Investment in the
Automotive Sector. El Universal, “Parque vehicular envejece por importación de autos usados,” June 6,
2009. Center for Sustainable Transport (CTS) Mexico. “MEDEC Reporte Final,” September 2008.

                                                  - 11 -
35.     At least three other policies complement the multi-pronged approach to the
demand for automobiles. First, cities may carry out comprehensive planning studies to
analyze additional measures that curb the use of automobiles, and old cars in particular.
Given the levels of congestion in Mexico’s cities, the plans have the flexibility to
recommend increasing the costs of parking, establishing congestion pricing or urban toll
roads, creating car-free zones and car-free days, or targeting used cars with regulations.
In parallel, cities need to invest in improving the supply of public transport and facilitate
bicycle use and walking, so that car users have alternatives to travelling by car. Coupling
measures that increase the cost of using a car to better supply of alternatives increases the
political feasibility of successful reform. Mexico’s Federal Mass Transit Program
explicitly incorporates these urban planning measures that address the relative
attractiveness of private automobile versus public transport use.

36.     The Federal Mass Transit Program: Mexico has chosen to follow a path of
greater efficiency in urban transport use by creating the Federal Support Program for
Mass Transit (PROTRAM), with the assistance of the World Bank.14 PROTRAM’s
mission is to support the implementation of bus and train-based mass transit projects that
are consistent with long-term integrated and sustainable mobility plans and that are
developed by leveraging varying degrees of private sector participation. PROTRAM is
thus set up to finance municipal investments in infrastructure, as well as preparatory
studies and designs for urban mass transport projects. To participate in PROTRAM, a
city must have an Integrated Transport Plan that reflects a holistic view of urban transport
planning. The Plans must analyze both supply and demand policies, such as mass transit
and public transport reforms, parking management strategies, congestion pricing and
vehicle restriction, road pricing, non-motorized transport, and land use management
strategies. By financing both the overall planning and mass transit lines, PROTRAM
thus establishes a policy framework that also improves the technical and political
feasibility of various demand-side measures--such as congestion pricing-as it creates a
valid alternative for the drivers who are “tolled-off” by the charge.

37.    Due to the complexity of the urban transport sector, a decision-making body that
represents all the key federal agencies involved in transport is fundamental to the success
of this innovative program. The main decision-making body in PROTRAM is the
Consultative Working Group (Grupo de Trabajo Consultivo, or GTC), which is headed
by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). Other agencies that participate in
the GTC include the Ministry of Transport and Communications (SCT), the Ministry of
Social Development (SEDESOL), the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT), National Bank of Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS), and the
National Infrastructure Fund (FONADIN). The Consultative Working Group (Grupo de
Trabajo Consultivo or GTC), supported by a recognized consultant with international
experience, analyzes the projects from a technical, social, environmental, and financial
viewpoint to determine basic feasibility and allow the process to continue. Members of
the GTC vote to accept or request changes to a proposal. If accepted, the proposal is


14
   See: World Bank (2008), “Programa Federal de Apoyo al Transporte Masivo: Fundamentos del
Programa y Lineamientos para su implementación en el marco del FONADIN.”

                                           - 12 -
eligible in principle for support for either carrying out necessary studies (grants) or for
infrastructure-related expenses (grants and/or loan guarantees). The final decision on
funding rests with FONADIN’s Technical Committee. The committee is headed by
SHCP and includes representatives of SCT, SEMARNAT, Secretaría de Turismo, and
representatives of three state governments.

38.     Financing mechanisms: PROTRAM lies within the National Infrastructure Fund
(Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura or FONADIN), which is entrusted with financing,
through grants and loans to municipalities and loan guarantees to the private sector,
planning studies, and capital expenditures on infrastructure and equipment. FONADIN
results from an unprecedented effort of the Government of Mexico to promote economic
competitiveness in the areas of health, education and public services, as well as
promoting the modernization of urban transport, highways, ports, airports, energy, and
the hydraulic sector. FONADIN funding comes from proceeds from the concessioning of
a package of inter-municipal roads, namely the Trust for Supporting the Recovery of
Licensed Highways (Fideicomiso de Apoyo al Rescate de Autopistas Concesionadas or
FARAC) and the Infrastructure Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión en Infraestructura
or FINFRA). This first capitalization of FONADIN amounted to over US$3 billion, and,
while the financial crisis has interfered with the second round of road concessions, it is
expected that, once the current financial crisis is over and economic growth resumes,
Mexico will be able to continue with its program and provide additional funding for
FONADIN.

39.     FONADIN requires that projects have a minimum level of private sector
participation. As part of FONADIN, PROTRAM follows the funds guidelines in
combination with its own implementing rules and regulations enacted in December 2008,
leveraging various forms of private sector participation in developing mass transit
programs. In the case of bus-based mass transit, for instance, the fare paid by the users
covers the capital, operation and maintenance costs of the buses, while the buses
themselves are provided and operated by the private sector under concession contracts.
For rail-based projects, on the other hand, fares usually cover only the operation and
maintenance costs, and private sector participation is subject to whether or not an
adequate project finance structure exists behind the concession contract. Because of the
current financial crisis, however, it is uncertain whether all sustainable urban transport
investments will be able to meet FONADIN’s private participation requirements. To
address this risk, the Government is also creating the Urban Transport Transformation
Program (UTTP), with support from the World Bank.15 This complementary program is
an important element for Mexico to achieve the emission reduction targets pledged by the
Government. The UTTP establishes city eligibility and project eligibility criteria for
receiving financing. These criteria are aligned with PROTRAM’s guidelines, but differ
in some respects to reflect the complementary nature of both programs. For example, the
UTTP finances not only mass transit corridors but also complementary facilities, such as
feeder road improvement and bikeway construction.              The UTTP, similarly to


15
  See World Bank (2008) “Programa Federal de Apoyo al Transporte Masivo: Fundamentos del Programa
y Lineamientos para su implementación en el marco del FONADIN.”

                                             - 13 -
PROTRAM, aims to encourage private sector participation, at the same time, providing
flexibility in this regard. PROTRAM and UTTP constitute the core of the strategy to
transform Mexican urban transport. To finance the strategy there is a comprehensive
package that covers project preparation and implementation as well as technical
assistance. The proposed DPL provides appropriate policy-level support for the Federal
Government’s urban transport strategy, while placing it in the context of parallel
initiatives in the energy sector.

Energy: Issues and Government Programs

40.     Given that Mexico is the world’s sixth largest oil producer and one of Latin
America’s most intensive users of energy, the energy sector is a critical component of the
country’s economy. In 2007, the energy sector (oil, gas and electricity) accounted for
8 percent of GDP and one-third of all government revenues.16 However, the Government
of Mexico has recognized that the current energy supply and usage patterns of the
economy are not sustainable and are incompatible with its Climate Change mitigation
objectives. On the upstream supply side, production from existing oil fields is
diminishing: oil production has dropped 18 percent over the last 2 years and new oil and
gas developments are not keeping pace with the drop in Mexico’s reserves, which are
being tapped for ongoing oil consumption. At current production levels, oil reserves
could last up to ten years. Within electricity sector supply, the reliance on thermal
products for generation has led to energy generation as a major contributor to greenhouse
gas emissions in Mexico.

41.     While the electricity sectors of many Latin American countries still struggle with
basic connectivity and coverage issues, complex market structures and highly volatile
prices, Mexico offers nearly universal access to electricity to its citizens -- over
97 percent of households are connected to the grid -- and a stable market structure that
has been able to attract significant levels of private investment in generation over the past
decade. Although residential and agriculture consumer subsidies are an important aspect
of electricity service in Mexico (See Box 1 below), the Government considers its energy
security and, in turn, the diversification of its electricity generation matrix to be the
sector’s primary challenge. The domestic and agriculture sectors are responsible for only
29 percent of over-all electricity consumption, with the other sectors representing the
remaining 71 percent and applying tariffs close to cost recovery. Although consumer
subsidies may appear to work against emission reduction objectives, residential
consumption levels are relatively low given the country’s level of income. This is
probably because average tariffs are not particularly low by international standards. The
diagram below illustrates Mexico’s residential consumption levels given its income.




16
     Secretaría de Energía.

                                           - 14 -
Figure 3: Mexico and LAC Residential Electricity Consumption (kWh per Capita)
                         versus Per Capita Income
                        (Energy Prices in Parentheses)

                                         1,000


                                          900                                                                                                                         BRB* (0.177)

                                                                                                                                         URY (0.117)
                                          800
                                                                                                                                                        VEN (0.055)
  Electricity Consumption/pc (KWh/hab)




                                                                                                                                   ARG* (0.035)
                                          700                                                                        CRI (0.109)


                                          600
                                                                                                                   SUR* (0.171)
                                                                                                                                                                         CHL (0.098)

                                          500                           PRY 0.057)                                         PAN (0.15)
                                                                                                                                          BRA (0.144)
                                                                                                DR (0.14)
                                                       Average Consumption                               JAM* (0.161)
                                          400
                                                                                                                                                                       MEX (0.085)
                                                                                                              COL (0.07)
                                                                      HND (0.083)
                                          300                                                ECU (0.098)
                                                     GUY* (0.059)
                                                                                                     PER (0.115)
                                          200
                                                                                       SLV (0.139)
                                                                 BOL (0.061)
                                                                            GTM (0.08)
                                          100                  NIC (0.121)
                                                       HTI* (0.084)
                                             0
                                                 0          1,000      2,000        3,000     4,000         5,000         6,000         7,000     8,000       9,000     10,000       11,000
                                                                                                        GDP/pc (current US$)

                                                                    Source: 2005 data from OLADE (2008), World Bank for GDP figures.



42.    Rather than a driving force for high consumption and, in turn, carbon emissions,
the subsidies represent a fiscal cost that the Government plans to address in the near to
medium-term. (See Box 1)

43.     The current energy matrix in Mexico is heavily reliant on hydrocarbons which
represent 90 percent of total energy consumption, and over 70 percent of installed power
generation. By increasing energy efficiency and investing in renewable energy (RE)
sources, Mexico’s prospects of diversifying its generation mix and consumption patterns
are excellent. But this will require substantial investments in RE sources which currently
cover less than 5 percent of total energy requirements.




                                                                                                             - 15 -
 Box 1. Mexican Electricity and Gasoline Subsidies

 Although 71 percent of electricity consumption in Mexico is charged at rates that approach cost
 recovery, the remaining 29 percent of consumption—residential and agricultural consumers—benefit
 from subsidies that were valued at approximately US$9 billion in 2006. These tariffs have not been set
 high enough to cover the total cost of electricity, including the pension liabilities and technical and
 non-technical losses of the public distribution companies as well as the relatively high costs of
 generation which comes from relatively clean but expensive combined cycle, natural gas plants. The
 government transfers come in the form of reimbursements to the utilities of the dividends, or canon, that
 the utilities pay in lieu of taxes. Even with the canon reimbursement, Mexico’s electricity rates are not
 low per se. The average residential tariff in Mexico is about the same as that in the US, Chile and
 Colombia and consumption levels are well below regional consumption expectations given Mexico’s per
 capita income. According to the IEA and OLADE, Mexican households consume less than a quarter of
 the typical OECD household and consume at about the LAC regional average per capita even though
 Mexico is one of the region’s highest income countries (see Figure 3). Addressing the residential
 subsidies is thus primarily a fiscal concern, rather than one related to overall consumption and
 emissions..
 While reducing residential electricity subsidies would provide greater incentives to promote energy
 efficiency by increasing tariffs among some residential consumers, the experience with residential
 energy efficiency programs in Mexico shows that there are sufficient price incentives to make it
 attractive for households to replace inefficient lighting and appliances. For example, at current average
 residential tariffs, a compact fluorescent light bulb would pay for itself in less than a year and generate
 savings of over US$20 over its lifetime. Although the deepening recession and the escalating
 unemployment in Mexico will make it difficult to address the subsidies in the immediate future, the
 government is committed to reducing the size of the sector’s fiscal gap through greater efficiency at the
 utility level and a reduction in the subsidies to the highest level domestic consumers.
 As for gasoline subsidies, as a petroleum products net exporting country, Mexico has implemented a
 stable pricing program which has set a consumer or "pump" price dependent on inflation rates. During
 the recent surge in oil prices, the subsidy--that is, the difference between the established pump price in
 Mexico and the international trading price--rose significantly. The gap has all but disappeared since the
 fall of international commodity prices. Historically, Mexico's pump price is about the same as the
 average of Latin American prices and significantly higher than other net oil exporting countries such as
 Ecuador, Venezuela or the OPEC countries. As of July 14, 2009, gasoline at a Pemex station in Mexico
 City cost 7.72 pesos per liter, or US$2.17 per gallon, while on the Gulf Coast of the US, the same gallon
 costs US$2.20 before the federal excise tax. It appears that for this year, the net subsidy will likely by
 negligible or negative.
 Sources: International Energy Agency, Key World Energy Statistics (2008); OLADE, Statistical Annex (2007); Komives, K., et
          al.; “Residential Electricity Subsidies in Mexico: Investigation of options for achieving improved targeting of
          subsidies for the poor,” World Bank Working Paper No. 160 (2009); Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) 20-F Form for the
          US Securities and Exchange Commission (2008); Energy Information Administration. “US Retail Gasoline Prices” ;
          http://www.eia.doe.gov/oil_gas/petroleum/data_publications/wrgp/mogas_home_page.html.




44.     To address many of Mexico’s energy sector challenges, the Congress approved an
energy reform package in October 2008. Inter alia, the package aims at improving the
efficiency of the management of the hydrocarbon sector, providing stronger incentives
for investment in renewable energy, and fostering substantial energy efficiency gains. As
with urban transport, the growing recognition of the need to address Climate Change
through reduced emissions provides the impetus for a new set of laws and regulations.
The package includes two key pieces of legislation relating to the Climate Change
mitigation efforts of the Government: a law to promote the efficient use of energy; and a
law to promote the use of renewable energy sources. While these laws are not

                                                          - 16 -
prescriptive in nature, they lay out an appropriate framework for a shift in energy policy
in Mexico toward one focused on greater efficiency in the use of energy and
sustainability in the production of energy.

Law for the Sustainable Use of Energy17

45.     This law establishes the enabling environment for promoting energy efficiency by
providing the legal framework for the development and implementation of strategies,
policies and programs to promote the sustainable and more efficient energy use. Its
objective is to promote the sustainable use of energy in all of the processes and activities
related to production, transformation, distribution and consumption of energy, including
in the residential, commercial and industrial sectors. The Law provides for the following:

        (i)      The development by Secretaría de Energía (SENER)18 of a program for
                 the sustainable use of energy (Programa Nacional para el
                 Aprovechamiento Sustentable de la Energía), containing strategies to
                 promote the use of efficient technologies, equipment, appliances and
                 vehicles, strengthened energy efficiency standards, and increased
                 scientific and technological research in this area.
        (ii)     The establishment of the National Commission for the Efficient Use of
                 Energy (Comisión Nacional para el Uso Eficiente de Energía, or
                 CONUEE) as a subordinate agency of the Ministry of Energy (SENER),
                 with technical and operational autonomy, to advise the Public
                 Administration on energy efficiency issues, lead the dialogue on this issue,
                 and promote the implementation of best practices related to energy
                 efficiency.
        (iii)    The creation of the Consultative Group for Sustainable Use of Energy,
                 Consejo Consultivo para el Aprovechamiento Sustentable de la Energía,
                 as part of the above mentioned Commission to evaluate compliance with
                 the objectives, strategies, actions and goals of the Program. This Council
                 will consist of the Minister of Finance and six researchers with extensive
                 experience in the area. The regulations setting the rules of operation are
                 currently under preparation.
        (iv)     The establishment of the National Information System, Subsistema
                 Nacional de Información, on Energy Efficiency to register, organize,
                 update and disseminate information about energy consumption and its
                 end-uses in sectors that use this energy, distinct geographical regions of
                 the country, factors that impel these uses, and indicators of EE. The
                 format for collecting information has already been created and is being
                 used by the agencies.


17
   Ley para el Aprovechamiento Sustentable de la Energía, herein referred to as the Energy Efficiency
Law. The Law was published on November 28, 2008.
18
   The Law provides for the Program to be published one year after the law entered into force (November
2008).

                                                - 17 -
46.     While setting the legal basis for formulating strategies, policies and programs
oriented toward the promotion of sustainable energy use, the Energy Efficiency Law
requires strong secondary regulations to create the specific mechanisms for implementing
the stated energy efficiency objectives and strategies. Likewise, as a self-contained piece
of legislation, the Law does not provide for precise instruments for private sector and
civil society participation in the implementation of energy efficiency activities, instead,
explicitly leaving the provision of these specifics for subsequent regulations to be
developed in the near future.

47.     Nevertheless, the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Law is an important first step
in developing a new and robust enabling regulatory framework to promote energy
efficiency.19 Draft regulations to implement the Law have been prepared by SENER and
are currently undergoing an internal consultation process. Once this consultation process
is over, the regulations will be passed on to COFEMER (Comisión Federal de Mejora
Regulatoria) for review and comments. The document is expected to be published before
December 2009 in the DOF (Diario Oficial de la Federación), entering into effect at that
moment.

Law for the Use of Renewable Energy and the Financing of the Energy Transition20

48.    This Law is the foundation for the Government’s national strategy to transition
away from hydrocarbon-based electricity generation to the broader use of renewable
energy sources. It provides a broad legal basis for this transition and establishes
mechanisms to foster the use of RE sources by independent power producers, and creates
a fund for the promotion and adoption of renewable energy technologies. The Law also
provides the regulatory instruments for tariff setting, considering capacity and variable
costs, which will allow the private sector producers to recover the cost of their
investments. Specifically, the Law:

        (i)      Establishes the Energy Regulatory Commission (Comisión Reguladora de
                 Energía, CRE) as the institution in charge of regulating the payments that
                 the utilities – CFE and LyFC (Luz y Fuerza del Centro) – will pay to
                 independent generators from renewable sources, regulating the terms and
                 conditions for interconnection with the public utility, and expediting rules
                 and norms regarding the generation and exchange of electricity generated
                 from renewable sources.
        (ii)     Makes the electricity utilities responsible for developing efficient and
                 transparent selection bidding processes for renewable.




19
   As part of the Energy Efficiency project for Mexico, currently under preparation, the World Bank will
provide technical assistance to help identify and finance Energy Efficiency opportunities in residential,
commercial and industrial consumption.
20
   Ley para el Aprovechamiento de las Energías Renovables y el Financiamiento de la Transición
Energética, herein referred to as the Renewable Energy Law.

                                                 - 18 -
        (iii)    Appoints SENER as the entity responsible for determining the targets for
                 renewable energy production as a percentage of total electricity
                 generation. The contribution will be expressed in terms of minimum
                 percentages of installed capacity and minimum percentages of electric
                 supply and will also include targets for contribution by consumers in
                 addition to producers. SENER is currently in the process of defining the
                 best approach to set the targets for the different technologies.21
        (iv)     Appoints SENER as the entity responsible for the development of the
                 “Prospectiva de Energías Renovables,” which will outline a roadmap for
                 expanding the use of renewable energy in the sector, as well as puts it in
                 charge of leading the Strategic Plan for Renewable Energy, which will set
                 out the policies, programs and actions to foster the implementation of RE
                 projects. The Law is designed to increase certainty to private investors by
                 outlining and pinpointing the responsible entities (within the Federal
                 Government) for each part of the process regarding the introduction of
                 renewable energies.
        (v)      Establishes a catalogue of renewable resources, including wind, solar,
                 water (in both natural and artificial waterways), ocean energy in its
                 distinct forms, and geothermal energy. The Law does not govern the
                 following energy sources: radioactive minerals for nuclear energy,
                 hydraulic energy from plants of more than 30MW, industrial residues
                 which have been incinerated or have undergone thermal treatment, and
                 landfills that do not comply with national environmental norms.
        (vi)     Creates The Fund for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of
                 Energy to promote the financing of projects evaluated and approved by a
                 Technical Committee chaired by SENER.

49.     Like the Energy Efficiency Law, the Renewable Energy Law provides a strong
regulatory basis for the mainstreaming of renewable energy sources in Mexico’s
electricity generation mix, including from independent power producers. However, its
full potential will be achieved--and the Law itself operationalized--through the
promulgation and enforcement of comprehensive secondary regulations and programs,
such as the National Program for the Use of Renewable Energy and Energy Transition,
the National Strategy for Energy Transition and for Sustainable Use of Energy, and the
Regulations defining the terms of the Law (Reglamentos).22 These additional programs
and regulations are crucial, as they will further define and detail the specific mechanisms
to promote renewable energy generation and use, clarify mechanisms for financial flows


21
   The World Bank is supporting SENER in defining the methodology to determine criteria for the use of
RE sources in the electricity generation mix. Among others, the Bank’s technical support will include such
tasks as the preparation of cost curves by technology, estimation of appropriate targets based on avoided
cost plus externalities’ value, and estimation of the regional impacts of RE development at target level.
22
   Programa Nacional para el Aprovechamiento de Energía Renovable y la Transición Energética;
Estrategia Nacional para la Transición Energética y el Aprovechamiento Sustentable de la Energía; and
Reglamento de la Ley para el Aprovechamiento de las Energías Renovables.

                                                 - 19 -
from carbon credits, and refine the methodologies defining the establishment of contracts
and other transactions between the public utility and independent producers.

50.    A draft regulation to implement the Renewable Energy Law has been prepared by
SENER. The specific importance of these secondary regulations also lies in their role in
promoting the right economic incentives for private sector participation in RE-based
generation.

51.     The Government, through SENER and CRE, has already begun carrying out
specific background work to define the new rules required in order to comply with the
obligations set forth in the Renewable Energy Law. SENER has started planning the
necessary activities to put together the National Renewable Inventory, define specific
targets by technology, and define a net economic benefit methodology to evaluate new
system expansion projects. Such activities include the definition of the procedure to
acquire information on RE potential, including information on existing projects; the
elaboration of a methodology for the calculation of externalities associated with power
generation; and the calculation of the supply curve of electricity generation using
different RE sources.

52.      As for CRE, the regulator is currently carrying out the relevant studies to
(i) establish a methodology to calculate tariffs for dispatchable and non-dispatchable RE;
(ii) calculate penalties for non-delivery of firm energy; (iii) establish rules for connection
of renewable generation to the national or regional grid; (iv) analyze options for selection
of RE projects and alternatives for RE contracting (e.g. bidding processes, auctions,
feed-in-law, quotas) and propose a contractual framework; and (v) identify social and
environmental safeguard policies as well as licensing procedures.

53.     The Green Growth DPL recognizes the significance of these two legislative acts
and aims to provide support for the subsequent efforts by the Government to create the
supporting regulatory framework designed to produce the programs, policies and
investments needed for the transformation and de-carbonization of the country’s energy
sector.

54.     The Government of Mexico has already put in place some of the institutions and
other mechanisms provided for in these laws. On the institutional front, CONUEE
(Comisión Nacional para el Uso Eficiente de Energía), for instance, has already been
established, drawing staff from the pre-existing CONAE (Comisión Nacional para el
Ahorro de Energía). CONUEE has been granted the authority to issue recommendations
to states, municipalities and individuals in relation to best practices for sustainable use of
energy; facilitate the optimal use of energy from the point of exploration to its
consumption; develop and issue methodologies for the quantification of GHG emissions
originating from the exploration, production, processing, distribution and consumption of
energy, as well as the emissions avoided as a result of actions promoting more
sustainable use of energy; provide technical assistance on sustainable use of energy to the
agencies of the Federal Public Administration and to state governments and
municipalities that request it; and implement the National Information Subsystem for the

                                            - 20 -
Sustainable Use of Energy. This represents an important expansion over the mandate of
the antecedent CONAE, notably with respect to its expanded responsibility in the areas of
monitoring and oversight of program implementation. The creation of CONUEE also
provides a clearly differentiated distribution of responsibilities between SENER, in
charge of sector planning, and CONUEE, in charge of the promotion of the sustainable
use of energy in all sectors and levels of government and the implementation of the
National Program for the Efficient Use of Energy.

55.     Financing mechanisms: The Fund for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable
Use of Energy called for in Renewable Energy Law has been established. Its purpose is
to increase existing financing to propel the energy transition from hydrocarbons to
renewable energy and energy efficiency, with associated energy savings. The Fund is an
important vehicle to foster the implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency
projects in Mexico, as one of the most important barriers for the adoption of these
sustainable energy practices is the limited financing available to the private sector. The
Fund can provide loans, credit guarantees or any other financial support to projects that
comply with the National Strategy for the Energy Transition and Sustainable Use of
Energy (Estrategia Nacional para la Transición Energética y el Aprovechamiento
Sustentable de la Energía). A Technical Committee, consisting of government officials
and chaired by SENER, will select the projects suitable for funding (loan or grant) and
will decide its terms and conditions. The Fund has specific criteria for selecting projects
to receive funding, including the projects’ consistency with the National Strategy, the
conceptual design, innovative content and technical and financial viability. The Fund has
already begun to be capitalized and is expected to be fully capitalized by 2011. An initial
contribution of US$60 million has been made to the Fund.

56.     In July 2009, SENER officially submitted the Renewable Energy Development
Strategy provided for under Chapter IV of the Renewable Energy Law. This Strategy
outlines the framework to promote policies, programs, actions and projects targeting an
increase in the use of RE, as well as to promote EE and energy conservation, together
with decreasing the use of fossil fuels as primary energy source. The Strategy describes
international experience in mitigation and prospects for the near future. It assesses
Mexico's energy situation in the international context, and the structure of demand. The
document describes the Government's strategy for the energy transition, objectives and
planning instruments together with those derived from the energy reform. It also
identifies the specific projects to be included in the Federal Budget (Presupuesto de
Egresos de la Federación) for 2009, together with the regulatory actions in energy
transition that are expected to be delivered this calendar year.

57.    The recently approved Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Laws and the
associated policy and institutional framework being developed by the Government could
have a transformational effect on Mexico’s Energy sector, contributing meaningfully to
the country’s ambitious agenda to combat Climate Change. The specific interventions
supported by the two Laws, such as enhanced efficiency of the production and use of
energy, coupled with efforts to reduce the country’s dependency on fossil fuels, will help
mitigate global GHG emissions and lower the carbon intensity of Mexico’s economy, in

                                          - 21 -
addition to helping alleviate local air pollution in the country’s urban areas. These Laws
provide the policy framework for the creation of norms, directives and methodologies to
regulate electricity generation from renewable sources and the role of energy efficiency.
Most importantly, the Laws ensure greater legal and regulatory certainty and, combined
with the more specific secondary regulations that are being drafted, will provide the basis
for creating a market-based approach to pricing in energy sales contracts between the
electricity generators and the single buyer. This, in turn, will facilitate private sector
investment in the sector, particularly, in RE-based generation.


       IV.     BANK’S SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM

SUMMARY UPDATE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CPS
(See Annex 8 for a more detailed update of the Country Partnership Strategy)

58.     The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico (Report No. 42846-MX,
March 4, 2008) was endorsed by the Board in April 2008, and it builds on the Mexican
authorities’ desire to maintain a strong financial and knowledge-based relationship with
the Bank. The CPS stresses flexibility and innovation in responding to our Partner’s
development challenges and borrowing needs, with higher levels of flows dependent
upon evolving market conditions.

59.     Since the time the CPS was drafted, the new Partnership has been characterized
by the changing needs of Mexico in the face of a deteriorating international environment,
during which the flexible design of the CPS has facilitated timely and effective Bank
response with total lending in FY09 reaching US$3.4 billion, as detailed in Annex 8.23
While the original CPS envisioned a program characterized by most lending consolidated
into a single, annual Development Policy Loan, in responding to the crisis the program
has evolved to include a few large DPL’s supplemented by several, targeted investment
loans and other innovative products. The framework for moving forward, agreed with
Mexico, includes a major effort to alleviate the expected human consequences of the
economic downturn, as well as efforts to promote the basis for gradual reactivation of the
economy by strengthening the financial sector, supporting investment in infrastructure
and climate change, and enhancing governance and counter-cyclical measures.

60.     As the Mexican economy continues to deteriorate in the face of the ongoing
global downturn, exacerbated by the AH1N1 influenza epidemic in Mexico, and the
social impacts spread, the Government has requested access to an additional US$1 billion
in CY09, over the US$4 billion agreed in February, and would like to access a further
similar amount, US$5 billion, in CY10. In response to this request, US$6.7 billion in new
lending commitments is proposed for FY10. With exposure at US$6.5 billion at end-July
2009, proposed FY10 lending commitments would increase this to around


23
  A previous update was prepared for the Oportunidades Program Loan, which was approved by the
Board in February 2009.

                                            - 22 -
US$12.5 billion by FY12-13, depending upon the pace of implementation. The
composition and level of the lending program for FY11 will be developed in the coming
year with due regard for client needs and dependent on IBRD’s overall lending capacity.

61.     The IFC will continue to be a strong partner with Mexico as the crisis unfolds,
with a focus on investment and advisory activities that complement IBRD efforts to
improve the living conditions and economic opportunities at the base of the pyramid.
Support includes broadening and deepening the financial sector, infrastructure
investments and advice, strengthening of the investment climate, improving the quality of
healthcare and corporate governance. Having identified Climate Change as a new
priority area of support, the IFC will be working to support investments in renewable
energy and energy efficiency projects in concert with the objectives of the Green Growth
DPL. In response to the crisis, the IFC is focused on the implementation of systemic
interventions, such as the recently announced US$150 million facility to support housing
finance. Under current conditions, the IFC has a strong counter-cyclical role to play by
partnering with the IBRD and Mexican development banks.

LINK TO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIP STRATEGY

62.      As outlined in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period
FY2008-2013, the World Bank’s cooperation with the Government of Mexico has
centered around four main pillars: (i) reduction of poverty and inequality; (ii) increasing
competitiveness; (iii) strengthening institutions; and (iv) environmental sustainability.
(See Annex 8 for a detailed update of the CPS.) This Green Growth DPL, which focuses
on the urban transport and energy sectors, is consistent with each of these country
priorities. Improvements in the provision of clean urban transport services, in achieving
higher levels of energy efficiency and in promoting the use of renewables will likely have
positive effects on poverty and inequality levels through increased affordability and
accessibility of services. It will also have a positive impact on the country’s
competitiveness, particularly in the energy sector. The Green Growth DPL, however,
growing out of a legacy of sequential support to Mexico’s environmental policy and
institutional framework—beginning with programmatic Environmental SALs and
moving through the Climate Change DPL—will mostly contribute to the third and fourth
pillars of the CPS: strengthening institutions and environmental sustainability. These are
closely aligned with the Government of Mexico’s 2007- 2012 National Development
Plan (PND).

63.    More specifically, this Green Growth DPL recognizes that ensuring
environmental sustainability and strengthening the institutions to achieve this goal at the
cross-sectoral and sectoral level are key development challenges for Mexico. It also
leverages Mexico’s efforts in meeting these challenges through the Special Program for
Climate Change (PECC), aimed at quantifying GHG emissions, assessing the country’s
vulnerability to climate change and evaluating potential areas of intervention in
addressing both mitigation and adaptation issues.

64.    In addition to being consistent with the key development areas as agreed upon by
the Government of Mexico and the World Bank, the Green Growth DPL builds upon the
                                          - 23 -
experience from the implementation of the last CPS and takes into account the feedback
from the Government, which indicated the need for increasingly flexible, on-demand
services. Given the impact of the global economic crisis on the Mexican economy, this
Green Growth DPL comes at a much needed time in the country’s development path,
complementing a series of programmatic interventions including loans in addition to non-
lending advisory services and technical assistance in the areas of environment, energy,
transport, and climate change.

65.      Finally, this Green Growth DPL fits within the framework outlined in the existing
CPS for Mexico, which states that the implementation of the Government of Mexico’s
climate change strategy could be supported by follow-up actions through a mix of the
following interventions: (i) a possible stand-alone second phase climate change DPL;
(ii) inclusion of activities to implement the Government of Mexico’s climate change
strategy in a future multi-sector DPL; (iii) technical assistance loans to support DPL
implementation and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities; and (iv) a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on advisory and analytic activities on climate
change and the completion of those activities. This multi-sector DPL, which builds upon
the Government of Mexico’s climate change strategy, represents an important step
towards a streamlined approach to both lending and non-lending interventions and
support and is a direct outgrowth of the priorities identified in the CPS.


COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS

66.     World Bank and IMF staff meet on a regular basis to exchange views on the
macroeconomic situation and prospects for Mexico. These consultations occur at least
quarterly and also involve exchange of documents and recent reports conducted by the
respective teams. Financial sector issues are often discussed as both institutions are
actively engaged in policy advice in this area.

67.     The IMF's Board approved a Flexible Credit Line (FCL) for approximately
US$47 billion in April of this year. Mexico was the first country to qualify and request
this new instrument, which is intended to be a one-year arrangement and is treated as
precautionary by governments. This type of support during a global downturn is very
much complementary to World Bank and IDB financing of the government budget. The
scale and precautionary nature of the IMF program provides a backstop on international
reserves of the Central Bank, thus limiting the possibility of speculative capital outflows
that could cause further damage to economic prospects. Meanwhile, Bank financing
provides counter-cyclical and long-term financing of government expenditure and allows
the government to limit crowding out of private sector access to local (and international)
capital markets.

68.    More specifically, the collaboration between the World Bank and the IDB in
supporting the Government of Mexico in fostering its Climate Change agenda is
manifested through the recent adoption of the Investment Plan for the Clean Technology



                                          - 24 -
Fund (CTF),24 agreed on jointly by the two IFIs, the IFC, and the Government of Mexico.
As with the Green Growth DPL, the programs identified under the Plan--to be
co-financed by the IBRD, IDB, and IFC--fall in the three sub-sectors of Urban Transport,
Renewable Energy, and Energy Efficiency, and aim to contribute to the low carbon
objectives contained in the country's 2007-2012 National Development Plan, the National
Climate Change Strategy, and the PECC. Additionally, the IDB is also preparing to
provide technical and financial support to activities related to the PECC through a
technical cooperation project (“Support to the Climate Change Agenda in Mexico”),
related to a policy-based loan (PBL) that was approved in November 2008. The PBL
consists of the following broad components: (i) macroeconomic stability, (ii) institutional
framework, (iii) mitigation agenda, and (iv) adaptation agenda. Within component (ii),
more specifically, the PBL aims to promote the national Climate Change policy through
analytical activities and the advancement of national and state programs, and
institutionally strengthen the implementation of the Climate Change policy, in particular,
by building the capacity within SEMARNAT as the entity responsible for Climate
Change programs, as well as through support for federal sector entities participating in
the agenda for “greater mainstreaming of the climate change agenda in the sectors.” The
alignment of the objectives of the IDB’s PBL with the Green Growth DPL will provide
reinforcement of the policies promoted in the Government’s Climate Change and sectoral
programs.




24
     Annex 7 provides a discussion pertaining to the CTF and its links to the Green Infrastructure DPL.

                                                     - 25 -
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS (See Annex 4 for more details)

Engagement and Dialogue on Climate Change

69.     This Green Growth DPL grows out of a living legacy of support to Mexico’s
Climate Change policy and institutional development that began with programmatic
Environmental SALs and has continued through the Climate Change DPL that was
approved in 2008. It is also part of a series of engagements related to the Urban
Transport and Energy sectors that reflects a long-standing and comprehensive policy
dialogue and operational relationship between the Government of Mexico and the World
Bank. On the policy side, the Government of Mexico has publically committed to a
significant reduction in GHG emissions by 2030 with even deeper cuts by 2050.

70.     The policy response at the urban transport level is to place the sector on a
low-carbon growth path though PROTRAM and the UTTP itself. The policy response on
the energy side has been the drafting and passage of sectoral laws that redouble the
Government’s commitment to the development of renewable generation and the
implementation of an energy efficiency agenda. The World Bank recognizes these
significant steps as well as the additional policy actions taken by the Government to
implement a strategy aimed at reducing GHG emissions. The promulgation of
regulations and implementation programs for energy efficiency and renewable
energy-based electricity generation, as well as the implementation of urban planning
programs that incorporate mass transit are the immediate next steps to will give meaning
to the government’s strategy in the energy and transport sectors. The Green Growth DPL
adds value to the Program by supporting the implementation of the key related policies
and aligning the technical assistance of the Bank to these objectives.

71.     The Bank’s engagement with Mexico on climate change issues dates back to the
mid-1990s and, at present, comprises about 25 initiatives (Active or in the Pipeline),
financed by IBRD loans, GEF grants, carbon finance emission reductions purchase
agreements (ERPAs), and other financial instruments. The diagram below illustrates the
relationship to other Bank operations, the flow of analysis and lessons learned from
recent policy loans, technical assistance and investment programs into the Green Growth
DPL. A more detailed version of the diagram with the major areas of relevance to the
DPL for each Bank intervention can be found in Annex 4. That Annex also provides a
schematic timeline for all of the Bank’s relevant sectoral activities in urban transport,
energy efficiency and renewable energy, as well as brief descriptions of the objectives
and components of each of them.




                                         - 26 -
Relationship of Recent Bank Operations and Analytical Work to Proposed DPL


                                        ENVIRONMENTAL DPL (P095510)                                                          Green Growth
                                                                                  Sectoral Policy Framework
                                                                                                                                 DPL
              POLICY                                                                                                       Objective: Strengthen the
                                                                                                                           policy framework for low
                                             CLIMATE CHANGE DPL                                                             emissions evolution of
                                                  (P110849)                                                                        key sectors
                                                                                   Public Policy Framework

                          ANALYSIS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                                                                                                            Comprehensive
    ENERGY                               URBAN TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                            Framework with
         SEMARNAT MoU                    MEXICO MASS URBAN TRANSPORT FEDERAL                                                 focus on:
          (P112959)                        PROGRAM Fee for Service (P110474)                              Sectoral
         SENER MoU (P114892)             IMPLEMENTATION OF PROTRAM TA (P117624)                       baselines for
         STUDY on Residential            ANCHORING GENDER IN TRANSPORT AND                             monitoring
                                                                                                                            Urban Transport
          Electricity Subsidies            DEVELOPMENT POLICIES OF URBAN CITIES IN
                                           MEXICO                                                                           Renewable Energy
                                                                                                                             Generation
                                                                                                                            Energy Efficiency
    ENVIRONMENT / CLIMATE CHANGE

        CAP AND TRADE STUDY (MoU)                                                                        Emissions
        MEDEC (Technical Assistance)                                                                   regulation and
        LOW CARBON, HIGH GROWTH: LATIN AMERICAN RESPONSES TO CLIMATE CHANGE                            cross-sectoral
         (Flagship)                                                                                      carbon plans


                                  INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING
                                                                                                                           3 Main Policy Areas:
        ENERGY EFFICIENCY              RENEWABLE ENERGY                                                                     Policy Framework
                                                                                                                            Enabling and
         MEXICO LIGHTING               LA VENTA II (P080104) and LA VENTA III (P077717)
                                                                                                                             Monitoring
          AND APPLIANCES                HYBRID SOLAR THERMAL PROJECT (P066426)
                                                                                                           Financing,        Framework
          EFFICIENCY - CTF              INTEGRATED ENERGY SERVICES (P095038)
                                                                                                          capacity and      Financing
          (P106424)
                                                                                                         safeguards for      Mechanisms
         SUSTAINABLE                                                                                    investments in
          RURAL                        URBAN TRANSPORT                                                     energy and
          DEVELOPMENT (Agr.                                                                              urban transport
          Energy Efficiency)        CTF PROGRAM
                                    URBAN TRANSPORT TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM




Relationship to the Climate Change DPL

72.    Most importantly, however, the proposed Green Growth DPL may be regarded as
a natural follow-on to the Climate Change Development Policy Loan (P110849), an
IBRD operation designed to support the Government of Mexico’s efforts to mainstream
climate change and environmental considerations into public policy, specifically, in the
following three areas: (i) improved analytical basis for policy responses through the
submission of a Third National Communication to the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change; (ii) the approval of the National Climate Change Strategy by the
Government’s Inter-Secretarial Commission on Climate Change and its announcement by
the President; and (iii) the integration of climate change considerations into sector
programs. The key objective of the DPL, expected to be completed by May 2011, is to
promote socio-economic development within a context of environmental sustainability.

                                                                  - 27 -
The text below provides a summary of the Climate Change DPL and its direct relevance
to the proposed DPL.

73.     Demonstrating commitment to confronting climate change, the Government of
Mexico requested that a Climate Change Development Policy Loan (CCDPL) in the
amount of US$501.25 million be presented to the World Bank Board of Executive
Directors for its approval jointly with the 2007-2012 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).
The CCDPL, approved on April 8, 2008, was designed to support the Government’s
priorities within its climate change agenda. Specifically, its development objective was
to assist the Government of Mexico in integrating climate change considerations in public
policy.

74.     The Green Growth DPL, consistent with Mexico’s commitment to reducing GHG
emissions on a voluntary basis within a framework of medium to long term goals for
climate change adaptation and mitigation, represents an important step towards the
operationalization of the country’s National Climate Change Strategy (ENACC). The
ENACC explicitly calls for the drafting of the Special Program for Climate Change
(Programa Especial de Cambio Climático, or PECC), as an instrument to set forth
sectoral contributions to the national mitigation effort, and proposes action plans, politics
and strategies as basis for its development. Upon the drafting of the PECC in Spring
2009 based on these guidelines, the Green Growth DPL takes the process of
mainstreaming climate change into public policy one step further by calling for the
official approval and publication of the PECC and for its establishment as a
comprehensive policy framework for the reduction of emissions across sectors.
Moreover, the proposed loan delineates specific measures to be taken in order to establish
an institutional, regulatory, and monitoring framework for the reduction of emissions in
urban transport and energy and to set up financing mechanisms to enable this process. It
provides a strategic framework for an expanded dialogue between the Government of
Mexico and the Bank on climate change.

75.     The achievements of the CCDPL – including the initiation of sectoral programs
for energy, and support of policy incentives to reduce the carbon intensity of the Mexican
economy – will be consolidated by the Green Growth DPL’s focus on low-carbon
transport and energy use. In fact, several of the monitoring indicators used by the
CCDPL, particularly in the areas of mitigation, knowledge base and institutional
strengthening, will be used as prior actions for the proposed operation, representing the
Bank’s programmatic approach in engagement on these issues. For example, on the
mitigation front, the CCDPL supported the adaptation of the PECC, definition of sectoral
contributions to the national mitigation effort, and setting of national emission reductions
targets. Notably, under the proposed operation, the prior actions specifically include
adoption of the PECC, definition of energy and transport contributions to the national
mitigation effort, and the setting of national emission reductions targets. Likewise,
regarding the knowledge base, the CCDPL supported an assessment of physical and
economic impacts of climate change on Mexico, which were achieved through the
MEDEC and Economics of Climate Change studies. These achievements serve as the
knowledge foundations of the proposed Green Growth DPL.


                                           - 28 -
76.     In summary, whereas the CCDPL focused on the National Climate Change
Strategy (2007), where Mexico committed itself to reducing GHG emissions on a
voluntary basis, and contains medium to long-term goals for adaptation and mitigation,
the Green Growth DPL takes the NCCS one step further by encouraging cross-sectoral
interventions in climate change. Similarly, while the CCDPL sets the adoption of the
PECC as a monitoring indicator within a year, the Green Growth DPL provides follow-up
to this measure by establishing it as a prior action. Finally, while the CCDPL was largely
based on of the 3rd National Communication to the UNFCC as a monitoring indicator,
the current DPL establishes the submission of the 4th National Communication as a
target output. Overall, therefore, the Green Growth DPL represents the logical next step
in implementing the Government of Mexico’s Climate Change strategy.

Relationship to the Environmental Sustainability DPL

77.    The Framework for Green Growth DPL also leverages the Bank’s engagement in
Mexico in the environmental arena. More specifically, the proposed DPL builds on the
Environmental Sustainability Development Policy Loan (P095510), approved by the
Bank on September 5, 2008 in the amount of US$300.75 million to support the
Government of Mexico in mainstreaming environmental considerations in key
development sectors (tourism, energy, water, forestry, agriculture, and housing). The
overall objective of that operation is to balance socio-economic development with
environmental protection and improvement.

78.     The Environmental Sustainability DPL (ENVDPL) builds on Mexico’s
2007-2012 National Development Plan (NDP), whose fourth pillar is that of
environmental sustainability and which stresses the importance of the environment in
enhancing the country’s competitiveness and both economic and social development, as
well as the importance of mainstreaming the environmental sustainability principle in
sectoral policies. It pursues and expands on the objectives of the previous series of
Environment DPLs,25 which intended to mainstream environmental concerns and
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of local environmental management processes in
four of the aforementioned sectors, namely in tourism, energy, forestry, and water, as
prioritized by the Government. In pushing forward environmental considerations into
sectoral programs, the ENVDPL also goes hand in hand with the CCDPL by placing
specific sectors on a low carbon growth path. The CCDPL and the ENVDPL
complement each other, as the CCDPL recognizes Mexico’s contributions at the global
level, while the ENVDPL mainstreams domestic and local environmental considerations
into national agendas and programs.

79.    The proposed loan supports the efforts undertaken by the Mexican authorities in
the environmental arena through the ENVDPL and the original Environmental DPL
program by promoting the development of a comprehensive policy framework that will


25
  Environment Structural Adjustment Loan and Second Programmatic Environment Development Policy
Loan (ENVSAL I and ENVDPL II) (P074539 and P079748) were approved in August 2002 and September
2005, and closed in December 2003 and January 2006, respectively.

                                            - 29 -
enable such interventions to materialize more successfully. More specifically, the
Framework for Green Growth DPL leverages the support provided to the energy sector in
both renewable energy and energy efficiency, as outlined in the ENVDPL, and adds
support to the low carbon development of the transport sector to ensure Mexico’s
environmental sustainability in both sectors.

80.     In the energy sector, specifically, the prior actions of the ENVDPL go hand in
hand with those for the sector in the Framework for Green Growth DPL. Under the
ENVDPL, the main prior action was the approval and implementation launch of the
2007-2012 Energy Sector Program by the Federal Government in order to increase
energy efficiency and energy production from non-hydro renewable sources and to
regulate sulfur emissions. The proposed loan takes these actions one step further by
establishing a regulatory framework for the accomplishment of the Energy Sector
Program through the passing of the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Laws and
by calling for a more precise roadmap of interventions through the definition of
regulations under these two laws. Furthermore, the Framework for Green Growth DPL
poses the creation of CONUEE as a prior action, which will develop methodologies for
quantifying GHG emissions in the energy sector. In terms of financing mechanisms, the
DPL sets as Prior Actions the establishment of the Fund for the Energy Transition and
Sustainable Use of Energy and the promulgation of regulations to define the Fund’s
operations. Consistent with the goals of the ENVDPL, the establishment of these
financing mechanisms will facilitate the reduction of emissions in energy, incentivize and
increase the share of renewable energy in Mexico’s energy matrix, and, in doing so,
contribute to the carrying out of the National Energy Sector Program.

81.    The Framework for Green Growth DPL, thus, mainstreams environmental and
climate change considerations in sectoral policies and programs by focusing on the
reduction of emissions in the transport and energy sectors and establishing monitoring
and evaluation indicators to measure the country’s progress in these areas.


Related Operational Work in Urban Transport, Renewable Energy and Energy
Efficiency

Urban Transport

82.     On the urban transport side, the proposed Green Growth DPL builds upon the
outcomes of several completed and ongoing projects supported by the Bank. For
instance, the Mexican Medium Size Cities Transport Program helped strengthen local
agencies and supported the federal urban transport decentralization process. The
Introduction to Climate Friendly Measures in Transport, a GEF-financed project
approved in 2002, assisted the GoM in developing policies and measures for stimulating
a long-term modal shift toward cleaner and less carbon-intensive transport in the Mexico
City Metropolitan Area, while the Mexico Mass Urban Transport Federal Program,
which has been developed as a result of close cooperation between the Bank and the
Government, helped in designing, creating and establishing a federal support program for

                                          - 30 -
mass transit. In parallel, the Mexico City--Insurgentes Bus Expansion Program and the
Mexico: Low Carbon Bus Corridor Project were both aimed at reducing local airborne
pollutants and GHG emissions from the transport sector. Finally, the proposed DPL will
give the policy level foundation to the Clean-Technology-Fund- and IBRD-supported
Urban Transport Transformation Program and the GEF-supported Sustainable
Transport and Air Quality project, which are both currently in their final stage of
preparation and aim at placing urban transport on a low-carbon growth path.

Energy

83.     The Bank currently supports a rich set of sector interventions related to the
promotion of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. These include sector
dialogue around renewable energy policy, studies on renewable resources such as
mini-hydroelectric plants and the social and environmental standards needed to develop
wind farms. They also include investments (financed in part by GEF) in the development
of wind plants, the installation of off-grid renewable energy sources for the poor in rural
areas, and the building of a solar-thermal hybrid generation plant. Building on this rich
set of sector interventions and a deep knowledge of low-carbon options studied in the
context of the Mexico Low Carbon Study (MEDEC), the agenda under discussion
between Mexico and the Bank now focuses on locking in the sector reforms that will
most significantly reduce the country’s carbon footprint. This includes providing the
authorities with technical assistance, just-in time advice, and the support of high level
experts, as well as knowledge exchanges with countries that have successfully introduced
renewables in their generation mix to implement the RE Law, funded in part by the
ESMAP Trust Fund. Also, a large operation aimed at improving Energy Efficiency by
replacing appliances in the residential sector and incandescent lighting in residential and
municipal buildings and street lighting with more energy efficient technologies for public
and private consumers alike is scheduled to be finalized by early 2010.


ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

84.     In addition to the experience and lessons derived from the previous and ongoing
operations, the preparation of this DPL has also benefitted from- and was informed by-
an extensive set of analytical studies and a series of innovative technical assistance
activities covering the transport and energy sectors, environmental institutional capacity
building, and Climate Change more broadly. These include:
      Low Carbon, High Growth: Latin American Responses to Climate Change. This
       report is the Bank's flagship report on LAC that explores how the region is
       exposed to climate change impacts and what it can do to avert its effects, both
       unilaterally and with the incentives of a global climate agreement to be negotiated
       next year in Copenhagen by the United Nations.
      Clean Technology Fund (CTF) Investment Plan. The CTF Investment Plan is a
       “business plan” agreed between the Government of Mexico IBRD, the IDB and
       the IFC to provide support to the low-carbon objectives contained in Mexico’s
       2007-2012 PND, its ENAAC and PECC (Special Program for Climate Change).

                                          - 31 -
    This multi-year business plan identifies programs to be co-financed by the CTF
    and IBRD, IDB and IFC in the Urban Transport and Energy Sectors. Annex 7
    provides a more detailed summary of the programs proposed for CTF financing
    under Mexico’s Investment Plan, and the Plan’s overall similarities and
    complementarities with the Green Growth DPL.
   Mexico Low-Carbon Study (MEDEC). The World Bank assisted the Mexican
    Government in assessing the country’s potential for low carbon growth and the
    macroeconomic and fiscal implications of a low carbon development plan. The
    study highlights Mexico’s potential for reducing carbon emissions from a range of
    sectors, including transport, power generation, end-use energy efficiency, and
    land-use. Based on a common economic cost-benefit analysis, the study estimates
    the net costs, emissions reductions, and upfront investment that would be needed
    to maintain carbon emissions relatively constant over the next two decades while
    meeting existing economic and social development objectives.
   Economics of Climate Change Study. In 2006, the British Government funded a
    global study to review the climate change effects on economic growth. The Stern
    Review on the Economics of Climate Change, which is a comprehensive review of
    potential economic costs of climate change impacts and costs of mitigation
    activities, was released in October 2006. With the assistance of the IDB, ECLAC,
    the UK government and the Bank, the Government of Mexico has carried out a
    similar study to assess the cost of climate change for Mexico.
   Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with SEMARNAT. The purpose of this
    MOU is to bolster the policy dialogue and further strengthen Mexico’s capacity to
    mainstream environmental consideration into productive sectors and to implement
    its National Climate Change Strategy and Special Program for Climate Change
    (PECC). The MOU includes the following activities: (i) design and
    implementation of environmental regulations; (ii) mainstreaming environmental
    considerations in the housing sector; (iii) mainstreaming environmental
    considerations in the energy sector; (iv) design of a Cap and Trade System for
    Mexico; (v) preparation of Sub-national climate change action plans; and
    (vi) Adaptation on the Gulf Coast. As part of the MOU with SEMARNAT, a
    major Cap and Trade study was undertaken to analyze Mexico’s options for
    regulating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the economic implications of
    each option. Distinct strategies are considered in the study: continuation of
    current policies; the institution of emission caps on one or more sectors; and the
    implementation of policies to reduce emissions from selected emitting economic
    sectors while monetizing emission reductions in international GHG markets that
    accept sectoral offsets.
   Federal Support Program for Mass Transit (PROTRAM). Through this
    Fee-based-service technical assistance, the Bank prepared the report “Programa
    Federal de Apoyo al Transporte Masivo: Fundamentos del Programa y
    Lineamientos para su Implementación”, that laid the foundations for PROTRAM.
   Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with SENER. The MOU supports the
    policy dialogue with the Government of Mexico and further strengthen Mexico’s

                                      - 32 -
       capacity to implement its Energy strategy. This MOU includes the following
       areas of cooperation: (i) Support for integrating the policy to promote the use of
       renewables in power generation, (ii) analysis of options for modifying the
       regulatory framework for energy efficiency, (iii) best practices for reducing gas
       flaring, (iv) support in the design of programs to promote the use of efficient
       lighting and appliances, and (v) support to the development of a National Energy
       Strategy.
      The Study on Residential Electricity Subsidies in Mexico focuses on subsidy
       distribution across households, according to income cohorts. Its results are
       relevant for the Mexican Government, in that they shed light on how the
       electricity pricing scheme could be modified. Results suggest there is room for
       improvement in both the magnitude and targeting mechanism for electricity
       subsidies for residential customers. They also suggest that efficiency gains in the
       operation of the utilities’ could reduce the burden of residential electricity
       subsidies on the Government’s budget.

85.     While the technical assistance provided by the Bank to date has contributed
directly to the Green Growth DPL’s design, the implementation of the PECC and the
related sectoral objectives of the Program will be supported through continuing analytical
and capacity-building activities.


LESSONS LEARNED

86.     As evidenced in the previous sections, the design of the proposed Green Growth
DPL builds on the lessons learned from the World Bank’s long-term engagement with the
Government of Mexico on environmental and climate change issues, and numerous
sectoral investments and technical assistance in urban transport and energy. It also builds
upon Bank activities around climate change in other middle-income countries. In
particular, valuable lessons were learned from the CCDPL, the First Programmatic
Environment Structural Adjustment Loan and Second Programmatic Environment
Development Policy Loan (ENVSAL I and ENVDPL) -- including experience with the
related technical assistance packages -- as well as the Colombia Sustainable Development
DPL. Those loans recognized in particular the need for a sound analytical basis at the
sectoral and institutional levels, inter-agency coordination, and a strong monitoring
program. This DPL is also built on the foundation of the analytical work done for the
PECC (including, inter alia, the Bank’s MEDEC and Cap-and-Trade Studies) as well as
extensive analytical work to prepare for the Urban Transport program, and the energy
efficiency and renewable energy investment programs.

87.    Aside from underpinning the substance and Bank-Government dialogue on
policy, the Bank-supported climate change and above-mentioned sectoral activities
provided valuable lessons in designing this operation. The most important lessons from
these various operations and activities, taken from a review of the Implementation
Completion Reports and discussions with both line agencies and central government
agencies, are the importance of:

                                          - 33 -
       (i)       Strong Country Ownership: Strong country ownership is critical to
                 success, particularly when supporting cross-sectoral efforts, such as those
                 included in the proposed loan. The proposed project responds to
                 Government’s request to support specific priority programs and areas
                 which reflect the outcome of national policymaking processes. It is
                 grounded on the Government’s exemplary program and activities in
                 climate change, including a comprehensive National Climate Change
                 Strategy and the related Special Program for Climate Change. It also
                 builds upon sustained, effective efforts to support climate-friendly urban
                 transport and energy programs.
       (ii)      Using the Government’s Framework: The proposed operation builds upon
                 the Government’s existing program for addressing climate change in
                 priority sectors, focusing on a select number of central actions, impacts,
                 and results in the design of the Program. Toward this aim, the monitoring
                 indicators are drawn directly from those the Government is using to assess
                 the success of its interventions.
       (iii)     Providing Just-in-Time Strategic Engagement and Support: The
                 Government has repeatedly requested the Bank’s support on climate
                 change, urban transport and energy. The experience with developing and
                 providing comprehensive analytic and advisory packages on those priority
                 issues, through various MOUs, as a complement to policy lending, has
                 served to ensure that policy development is predicated upon a sound and
                 strategic analytic basis.
       (iv)      Continued Engagement: The long-term engagement between the Bank and
                 the Government on climate change has supported Mexico’s leadership in
                 the climate change arena. At the Government’s request, the Bank has
                 focused its continued support around this priority area. As such, the
                 proposed operation represents the logical next step in this relationship.



     V.        THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK FOR GREEN GROWTH DPL

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

88.     Mexico has established a policy framework that could significantly reduce its
carbon footprint in the years to come. The success of this program as detailed in the
Special Program for Climate Change (PECC) is dependent upon the further evolution of
regulations, institutions, financing mechanisms and monitoring and evaluation capacity.
The PECC identifies two sectors as particularly central to its climate change agenda:
transport and energy. The Green Growth DPL proposes to highlight the cross-cutting
measures embedded in the objectives of the PECC that focus on climate change




                                            - 34 -
mitigation more specifically,26 such as the monitoring framework for emissions and the
sectoral prioritization of interventions. In addition, the Green Growth DPL delves into
the policy framework for the key “high impact” sectors of transportation and energy,
focusing on the urban transport program, energy efficiency initiatives and the evolving
renewable energy program. The Diagram below illustrates how these fit into the PECC’s
design:


     PECC Phase 1 Focus and Sectoral Priorities to be Supported in Proposed DPL

                                                            Phase 1: 2008 -2012
                                                   Evaluation of the vulnerability of the
                      Cross-sectoral Policy         country to Climate Change
                               Framework           Economic valuation of the priority
                                                    measures for intervention

                                             Low Net Cost per             Higher Net Cost
                     High Impact Sectoral      Ton of CO2e                per Ton of CO2e
                Interventions: > 3 million
               metric tons per year of CO2e  Urban Transport             Renewable
                                                  Energy Efficiency       Energy

              Source: PECC Consultative Draft (March 2009); Bank illustration



89.     The Overall Program Development Objective of the Framework for Green
Growth DPL is thus to support the stimulus of the economy while strengthening the
framework for long-term sustainable growth. By supporting the Government’s policy
commitment to regulatory, institutional and financial resources in these sectors as well as
monitoring and evaluation capacity, the proposed Green Growth DPL strengthens
Mexico’s objective of launching the urban transport and energy sectors on a low-carbon
growth path. The sections below address the Green Growth DPL’s links to the
sector-specific goals and activities related to GHG emission reductions.




26
  While the first phase of the PECC largely focuses on the economic valuation of the priority measures for
intervention to mitigate climate change, the strategy for the country’s adaptation to climate change is part
of the second phase (2020-2030).

                                                  - 35 -
Urban Transport

90.     The policies supported by the proposed Green Growth DPL will contribute to
placing the urban transport sector in Mexico on a low-carbon path consistent with the
needs of urban development by providing an enabling framework and a supportive
financial structure. Specifically, these policies will foster comprehensive planning of
urban mass transit, the backbone of the Government’s strategy for combating GHG
emissions, local pollutants as well as congestion at the urban level. More specifically,
mass transit–be it Light Rail, Heavy Rail, or Bus Rapid Transit—is key to environmental
sustainability and improved mobility, as it promotes densification around stations,
contributes to reducing the rate of growth of the length of the average trip, and improves
the overall efficiency of the use of scarce resources.27 The comprehensive planning
framework that is being supported by the DPL will foster an integrated approach to urban
transport planning both on the supply and the demand sides, and will encourage private
sector participation in the investment and operations of UT infrastructure and services.

91.     The comprehensive planning approach and the financing of mass transit are
particularly relevant in light of Mexico’s easy access to used cars in the international
market, as high quality transit systems offer a valid alternative to car users. Further, as
cities move to curb car use through the use of pricing mechanisms and other demand-side
tools, the “tolled-off” drivers are more likely to accept this approach if there is a quality
transit system in place. Mass transit makes more feasible from a social, economic and
political point of view the use of demand side tools. The policies supported by this DPL,
therefore, are at the core of the future agenda in urban transport for Mexico.

92.     Finally, it is worth mentioning that PROTRAM is funded by the proceeds from
the concessioning of a package of inter-municipal roads in México. These funds allowed
the Government of Mexico to create the National Infrastructure Fund, FONADIN, and
within it PROTRAM. Although the financial crisis has complicated and delayed the
concessioning of a second round of roads that would have furthered capitalized
FONADIN, the initial capital of FONADIN amounts to over US$3 billion. While the
lack of additional funds could put at risk future infrastructure expansions beyond what is
feasible to finance with the resources already in the FONADIN, it is expected that once
the current financial crisis subsides, and economic growth resumes, Mexico will be able
to continue with its road concessioning program. The additional inflow of funds will
enable FONADIN to finance additional low-carbon transport infrastructure. In addition,
PROTRAM’s financing is being complemented by a separate World Bank Loan, the
Urban Transport Transformation Project (UTTP).




27
  Rodriguez, D. A. and Targa, F. "Value of Accessibility to Bogotá's Bus Rapid Transit System,"
Transport Reviews, Vol. 24, Number 5, pp. 587-610, 2004; Targa, F. and Rodriguez, D. A. "Analysis of
Bogotá's Bus Rapid Transit System and its Impact on Land Development," Carolina Planning Journal,
Vol. 29, No. 1, 2004; World Bank, 2002, “Cities on the Move: A World Bank Urban Transport Strategy
Review.”

                                               - 36 -
Energy

93.     For the energy sector, the Green Growth DPL supports the Government of
Mexico in its efforts to transition the country from its predominantly hydrocarbon-based
energy matrix towards a cleaner, more diversified mix including renewable energy
sources, while developing the appropriate regulatory framework for renewable energy
and energy efficiency. The Government of Mexico’s agenda for promoting the
sustainable use of energy in all of the processes and activities related to production,
transformation, distribution and consumption of energy is fully in accord with the
sustainable energy agenda of the World Bank. Given the Bank’s commitment to continue
supporting the Government of Mexico in its fight against Climate Change, an evaluation
of the impact of the regulatory framework underscored by this DPL in promoting and
implementing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects will be conducted. There
will also be a review of the framework’s role in mobilizing financial resources, including
private sector participation in the development of emission reducing urban plans and
energy projects.


Prior Actions and Other Policy Actions

94.    Prior Actions that anchor the Green Growth DPL are summarized in the Box
below. Annex 2 to this Program Document contains a more detailed Operations Policy
Matrix, outlining the objectives for each Policy Area, the Prior Actions, Expected
Outcomes, Medium-term Outputs and the proposed approach to Monitoring and
Evaluation of each.




                                          - 37 -
          Box 2. Prior Actions for the Mexico Framework for Green Growth DPL

  The Government has agreed upon and implemented the following prior actions:

  Policy Area 1: Comprehensive Policy Framework for the Reduction of Emissions across Sectors:
          Approval and publication of the Special Program for Climate Change (Programa Especial de
           Cambio Climático or PECC) in the Diario Oficial de la Federación which lays out a long-term
           vision for combating climate change while establishing the sectoral level interventions that will
           result in emission reductions.
  Policy Area 2: Enabling and Monitoring Framework for Reduction of Emissions in Transport & Energy:
      Urban Transport:
       Resolution for the establishment of PROTRAM in accordance with PROTRAM Guidelines and
         FONADIN’s participation in the Consultative Working Group (Grupo de Trabajo Consultivo)
         of PROTRAM.
      Renewable Energy and Energy Use:
       Adoption of the Renewable Energy Law which sets out the framework for promoting the
          broader use of renewable energy sources, including the establishment of a renewable fund
       Adoption of the Energy Efficiency Law which provides a framework and establishes
          responsibilities for the development of programs to promote the sustainable use of energy,
          including the establishment of the CONUEE, the agency with monitoring and oversight
          responsibility.
  Policy Area 3: Establishment of Financing Mechanisms for the Reduction of Emissions in Transport &
  Energy:
      Urban Transport:
       Issuance of the Presidential Decree, Modifying Agreement and Operating Rules establishing
         FONADIN and its operating principles which creates the framework for the financing of
         federal transfers to urban mass transport programs.
      Renewable Energy and Energy Use:
       Establishment of “The Fund for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy” to
          promote financing and foster the implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency
          projects; and the promulgation of the regulations to define the Fund’s operations.




95.     The Prior Actions established above capture the two-level nature of the
Government’s Program and the Green Growth DPL by first recognizing the importance
of the over-arching framework defined through the Special Program for Climate Change
(PECC) and by setting out the sectoral landmark institutions, regulations and financing
mechanisms that will give substance to the transport and energy programs established in
the PECC. These prior actions taken as a whole put Mexico on the path to achieving its
ambitious green agenda with regard to emission reductions by granting it the capacity and
resources to tackle Climate Change sector by sector. In addition, as described below, the
Government of Mexico has also begun to take important follow-on actions to implement
the enabling environment created by these prior actions.



                                                  - 38 -
POLICY AREAS

Policy Area 1: Comprehensive Policy Framework for the Reduction of Emissions
              across Sectors
96.    Objective: Implement a verifiable, targeted and cross-sectoral strategy for
emission reductions.
97.     Context and Policy Area Description: The first Policy Area focuses on the
development of a comprehensive, cross-sectoral framework for the reduction of
Greenhouse Gas emissions. This approach puts sectoral actions into the context of
Mexico’s over-arching framework for emission reductions, sets out monitoring standards,
calls for full accounting—through a national inventory—of CO2e emissions and provides
for sectoral prioritization. The primary instrument for the realization of the cross sectoral
strategy is the PECC which includes a long-term vision for combating Climate Change;
mitigation and adaptation plans at the sectoral level; and inter-ministerial working
arrangements needed to achieve the objectives of the program.
98.     Challenge: For the Government of Mexico, the challenges of putting in place
such an ambitious cross-cutting framework are multiple. The challenges include the
technical difficulties of identifying the baseline of emissions in each area of economic
activity and developing actions which are practicable and which will have meaningful
reductions. Other challenges include the cross-cutting nature of the program and the
consensus required among both government institutions and the general public in order
for the program to work.

99.    Prior Action: The action to be undertaken is the official approval and publication
of the Special Program for Climate Change or PECC in the Diario Oficial de la
Federación.

100. Expected Results: Now that the Government has worked through the public
consultation phase, the remaining legal approvals and formal approval and publication on
behalf of the Presidency of the Republic is a Prior Action that will have significant effect
on sectoral behavior. The baseline and goals for emissions reductions, to be achieved
through specific interventions in the Energy and Transport sectors, have been established
by the PECC, and will serve as the framework for monitoring and evaluation.

Policy Area 2: Enabling and Monitoring Framework for the Reduction of Emissions
              in Transport and Energy
101. Objective: Establish institutions, regulations and monitoring capacity to allow for
the reduction of emissions in urban transport, energy generation and efficiency.

102. Context and Policy Area Description: The two sectors identified in the PECC as
the primary emitters of GHG and the priority sectors for intervention have very different
organizational, legal and regulatory structures. They thus require unique policy
interventions. This Policy Area focuses on the decrees that have established the
institutional arrangements for federal support for urban transport, particularly mass

                                           - 39 -
transit, planning and implementation, and the legal structure that will incentivize more
efficient energy use and investment in renewable energy generation going forward. Both
sectors share a need for the establishment of clear baseline indicators, and diligent
oversight and monitoring of their emission reduction programs.

103. Urban Transport: There are several components to a successful urban transport
planning program, which lead to greater efficiency and a reduction in emissions.28 These
components include the strengthening of key institutions to promote a better coordination
of planning and implementation at the city level; the mainstreaming of integrated
transport and land use planning, (which also addresses air quality and climate change and
considers both supply and demand-side policies); the establishment of adequate financing
for planning and implementation of transport plans; and the promotion of private sector
participation. The Urban Transport sub-category of Policy Area 2 will build on the
creation of PROTRAM, whose structure reflects these four components for achieving
sustainable urban transport.

104. Energy: The Energy sub-category of Policy Area 2 builds upon a set of legal and
institutional achievements made by the Government of Mexico over the last several
months: The enactment of the Energy Efficiency Law and the Renewable Energy Law.
These are the first laws in Mexico to provide a legal framework for strategies, policies
and programs that promote sustainable and more efficient energy use. The Energy
Efficiency Law promotes the sustainable use of energy in all of the processes and
activities related to production, transformation, distribution and consumption of energy.
Both laws came into effect on November 28th, 2008.29

105. Challenge: In the Urban Transport sector, the Government of Mexico cannot
directly order the establishment of efficient mass transit mechanisms at the municipal
level, because urban transport is a municipal responsibility. However, it can use federal
agencies and programs, such as PROTRAM, to steer participating municipalities. To
achieve this objective, the Government of Mexico has to strengthen the capacity of
relevant federal agencies (SHCP, BANOBRAS, SEDESOL, SEMARNAT, and SCT), as
all of them play a role under the PROTRAM framework. The need for further
strengthening, however, is not significant, given the existing expertise, and should focus
mostly on achieving the required inter-agency coordination and cooperation to guarantee
program success. Nevertheless, the Federal Government needs to update technical
guidelines that cities can use to plan their transport and quantify associated emission
reductions. These guidelines constitute outputs of this DPL.

106. In the Energy sector, the Renewable Energy Law and the Energy Efficiency Law
provide a broad legal basis for the implementation of a national strategy to transition
away from hydrocarbon-based electricity generation to the broader use of renewable
energy sources and a more efficient use of energy. However, given the broad latitude



28
   Rebelo, Jorge, 1996, “Essentials for Sustainable Urban Transport in Brazil´s Large Metropolitan Areas.”
Policy Research Working Paper 1633. The World Bank.
29
   Both Laws were published in the Diario Oficial de la Federación on that same date.

                                                 - 40 -
established in the Laws, having specific implementing rules and regulations will be
crucial to the development of the renewable generation segment and to the
implementation of the stated energy efficiency objectives and strategies. Regarding the
renewable energy sector more specifically, those regulations will have to set out
incentives that can work within the confines of the integrated electric system of Mexico
and take into consideration the constraints on energy charges, public transfers and private
investment for new generation.

107. Prior Actions for Urban Transport: Approval of the establishment of PROTRAM
in accordance with PROTRAM guidelines; and of FONADIN’s participation in the
Consultative Working Group of PROTRAM by a resolution of the FONADIN Technical
Committee. PROTRAM is the federal program that provides both the technical and
financial support necessary for mass transit programs to be implemented at the municipal
level. The GTC is the key decision-making body of PROTRAM with a mandate to
review projects and recommend them for funding.

108. Prior Actions for Energy Sector: Adoption of the Renewable Energy Law which
sets out the framework for promoting the broader use of renewable energy sources; and
Adoption of the Energy Efficiency Law which provides a framework and establishes
responsibilities for the development of programs to promote the sustainable use of
energy, including the establishment of the CONUEE, the agency with monitoring and
oversight responsibility on energy efficiency issues.

109. Expected Results: The incentive system for involving municipalities in
sustainable Urban Transport programs has been established as a result of PROTRAM.
Cities carry out comprehensive planning exercises that include both supply and
demand-side policies, promote private sector participation, and incorporate sustainability
and climate change considerations. It is expected that the parallel Urban Transport
Investment Loan (under preparation) and associated Technical Assistance will provide
support in the development and use of these tools. The associated output to this Prior
Action is the adoption of Federal Guidelines for the Development of Integrated Transport
Plans (ITPs) that will help mainstream demand management strategies to complement
mass transit in maximizing the mobility and climate benefits of programs supported by
PROTRAM and FONADIN.30 Another output consists of the adoption of methodology
guidelines for developing corridor emission baselines. In the Energy sector, the drafting
and promulgation of the specific rules and regulations to implement the Renewable
Energy Law and the Energy Efficiency Law will serve as the target output by the time of
the DPL’s completion. The Bank will work closely with the Mexican authorities in the
development and promulgation of the regulations.

110. This Policy Area also focuses on the importance of monitoring progress toward
the achievement of low carbon strategies at the sectoral level. On the energy side, the


30
  Some of the activities the ITPs will address are: mass transit and public transport reform, parking
management strategies, congestion pricing and vehicle restrictions, road pricing, non-motorized transport,
and land use management strategies, among others.

                                                 - 41 -
Government of Mexico has established CONUEE as a subordinate agency of SENER that
will advise the Public Administration on energy efficiency issues and will take lead
responsibility for monitoring of the sector on these issues. CONUEE was established, in
part, to develop and issue methodologies for the quantification of greenhouse gas
emissions by the exploitation, production, processing, distribution and consumption of
energy as well as emissions avoided, and to implement the National Information
Subsystem for the Sustainable Use of Energy. In addition, the PECC sets specific targets
for GHG emission reductions for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency
measures. The accomplishment of these targets will be monitored by SEMARNAT and
reported annually.


Policy Area 3: Establishment of Financing Mechanisms to Facilitate the Reduction of
               Emissions in Transport and Energy
111. Objective: Institutionalize the appropriate financing mechanisms to allow for the
reduction of emissions in urban transport and energy generation and through enhanced
energy efficiency.

112. Context and Policy Area Description: In order to implement climate-friendly
infrastructure programs with high up-front costs and potentially significant recurring
maintenance expenditures, the Government recognizes that adequate and sustained
financing mechanisms need to be established. Recognizing this need, the Government
has established financing vehicles that can help defray the costs of investment. Through
PROTRAM, FONADIN finances comprehensive transportation planning and the design
and implementation of mass transit systems. FONADIN provides financing to
municipalities through grants, and to the private sector through loan guarantees, thus
promoting its participation in the urban transport sector. In the energy sector, the Fund
for the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy has been set up to support
the financing of projects promoting the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
The purpose of the Fund is to increase the existing financing to propel the energy
transition from hydrocarbons to renewable energy, energy savings and the use of clean
technology.

113. Challenge: The greatest challenge to the achievement of the financing strategies
for these sectors is the capitalization of the funds given the fiscal pressures of the
Government. In addition, financing from the private sector is further hampered by the
current economic conditions and the tightening of international financial markets.

114. In urban transport, PROTRAM and the UTTP (the latter under preparation),
which are supported by policies sponsored by this DPL, promote private sector
participation (PSP). PROTRAM explicitly requires that 35 percent of the total cost of the
project be covered through private sector participation. To achieve this goal, the
PROTRAM offers loan guarantees to the private sector, while the UTTP promotes PSP
but does not have explicit requirements. The directors of PROTRAM, moreover, have
indicated that the PSP targets can be adjusted if the program does not attract sufficient
private interest in its initial stages.

                                         - 42 -
115. Regarding private sector involvement in renewable energy projects, the
Renewable Energy Law provides the framework to create the norms, directives and
methodologies to regulate the electricity generation from renewable sources, and sets the
regulatory instruments for the payment to independent generators to meet capacity and
variable costs which is an important step towards creating the right economic incentives
for private investment in the renewable energy arena. The Law establishes the
commitment of the Ministry of Energy to set targets for renewable capacity generation to
be supplied to the grid, and rules for interconnection. The Energy Efficiency Law
provides the framework to incentivize the sustainable use of energy in all of the processes
and activities related to its exploitation, production, transformation, distribution and
consumption.

116. At present, private sector investment in generation from renewable sources is still
significantly lower than the role of the private sector in generation overall, where it
represents 31 percent of the country’s total capacity of 60 GW. Despite the benefits of
investing in energy efficiency, these programs still face a number of information,
financial and institutional barriers. Incentives or risk-mitigation products are needed to
encourage the use of more efficient technologies and to establish new standards and
benchmarks for such technologies in their respective industries. For promoting
large-scale energy efficiency investment, some level of public involvement is needed to
organize the market, catalyze investments and correct market failures. Currently, the
Government of Mexico and the World Bank are working together on the design of a
Program for replacement of incandescent light bulbs with CFLs, replacement of
inefficient appliances and improved efficiency of street lighting in municipalities.

117. Prior Action for Urban Transport: Issuance of the Presidential Decree,
Modifying Agreement and Operating Rules establishing FONADIN and its operating
principles which creates the framework for the financing of federal transfers to urban
mass transport programs. Despite the sound foundations of the urban transport program
design with regards to attracting desired levels of investment from the private sector, PSP
is currently more difficult given the economic crisis and tightening financial markets.
While PROTRAM was designed at a time of solid conditions for PSP, the UTTP in
particular was designed with this crisis in mind and hence offers a lighter requirement for
PSP. The directors of PROTRAM have indicated that the PSP targets will be adjusted as
a pragmatic measure if the program cannot attract sufficient private interest in its initial
stages.

118. Prior Action for Energy: Establishment of the Fund for the Energy Transition
and the Sustainable Use of Energy to promote financing and foster the implementation of
renewable energy and energy efficiency projects; and the promulgation of the regulations
to define the Fund’s operations. Given the current economic crisis in which there is
reduced financing access anticipated over the short to medium term for the private sector,
the role of the Fund becomes particularly important in the leveraging for these projects.
While the ability of the Government to capitalize the Fund fully may be affected over the
very short term, the Government has already mobilized US$60 million as an initial
subscription.

                                           - 43 -
119. Expected Results: The DPL prior actions in this Policy Area recognize that
funding mechanisms to help finance both sustainable Urban Transport investments as
well as Renewable Energy generation and energy efficiency initiatives in Mexico are a
necessary part of the enabling framework for the evolution of the two sectors. The target
outcomes on the urban transport side for this Policy Area would be the active engagement
of FONADIN in the financing of at least two urban transport programs. For the energy
side, the expected outputs would be the development of a publicly available inventory of
public and private sector projects eligible for financing from the Fund for Energy
Transition and Sustainable Use of Energy, and the capitalization of the Fund at a
sufficient level for financing at least one pilot project in Energy Efficiency. The
longer-term outcomes, on the other hand, are related to the number of megawatts being
added by renewable energy generation.

Summary of Prior Actions

120. The Prior Actions discussed above are derived from the legislative and juridical
measures taken by the Government of Mexico under each of the respective policy areas
beginning with the official approval and publication of the PECC. In the Policy Area of
Enabling and Monitoring Framework, the Government of Mexico has made a number of
key initial steps to mainstream the climate change agenda in the country’s key
infrastructure sectors. In the Urban Transport sector, the Government has created
PROTRAM, a federal framework that supports mass transit programs and integrated
urban transport planning, addressing issues like land use, low carbon strategies, and
demand management. In the Energy Sector, the Government of Mexico has passed the
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Laws, thus establishing a legal framework for
strategies, policies and programs that promote sustainable and more efficient energy use
and the mainstreaming of Renewable Energy sources in Mexico’s electricity generation
mix. In monitoring, the Government has established specific institutional mechanisms to
progress toward the achievement of low carbon strategy at the sectoral level. In the
Urban Transport sector, it has established federal guidelines for measuring
transport-related GHG emissions; in the Energy sector, institutional mechanisms have
been put in place for developing and issuing methodologies for the monitoring and
quantification of GHG emissions.

121. In the Policy Area of Financing Mechanisms, the Government has launched
several initiatives to ensure the availability of sustainable financing sources for
implementing climate-friendly Urban Transport and Energy programs. Namely,
FONADIN has been established with the mandate, inter alia, of financing mass transit
support programs at the municipal level in the Urban Transport sector, while the Fund for
the Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy has been set up to promote the
financing of projects promoting the use of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency.




                                         - 44 -
Box 3. Good Practice Principles for Conditionality

Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
 President Calderón announced México’s National Climate Change Strategy (ENACC) in May 2007,
    culminating a two-year process of preparation and public consultation. Adoption of the SpecialProgram for
    Climate Change (PECC) followed in 2009 to operationalize the strategy and achieve its medium- to
    long-term goals for climate change mitigation and adaptation. ENACC and PECC are at the heart of the
    environmental sustainability pillar of México’s National Development Plan (PND) for 2006-2012, which
    Congress approved, and are also central to Calderón’s vision for México in 2030.
 The energy and transport sectors are major sources of México’s GHG emissions. The Government’s strong
    commitment to reducing their emissions is evidenced by recent approval of laws for the Sustainable Use of
    Energy and Use of Renewable Energy and Finance of Energy Transition, as well as by the initiation of the
    Federal Mass Transit Program (PROTRAM) and the creation of a financing mechanisms, the National
    Infrastructure Fund (FONADIN).
 As a single-tranche operation, this DPL acknowledges and reinforces these important steps to develop and
    implement transport and energy sector policies necessary to achieve México’s climate change goals.
 As indicated in chapter IV, the policies and actions supported by this operation are underpinned by a
    substantial body of analytical work and by an in-depth and on-going dialogue with the Government.

Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated accountability
             framework
 The prior actions outlined in Box 2 and in the Operation Policy Matrix (Annex 2) have been agreed with the
    Government. They are all key elements of the Government’s own strategy and programs to ensure that the
    energy and transport sectors make their intended contributions to México’s climate change mitigation goals
    as established in PECC.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country circumstances
 The choice of a single-tranche DPL responds directly to the Government’s request for support for its debt
    management strategy in light of the exigencies of the global economic downturn and credit tightening.
 As indicated under Principle 1, the policies supported by this operation are all core aspects of the
    Government’s own program to strengthen the regulatory and institutional framework, financing mechanisms,
    and M&E systems pertaining to low carbon transport and energy use and generation.
 As noted under Principle 2, all of the policies reflect the Government’s extensive internal deliberations and
    public consultations and are also underpinned by the Bank’s on-going dialogue with the Government and the
    substantial body of analytical work to which the Bank has contributed.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement
 The Bank has agreed with the Government that the seven prior actions are all steps that are critical to the
    achievement of México’s climate change adaptation and mitigation goals. These goals cannot be attained
    without a strengthened legal and regulatory framework for RE and EE and financing mechanisms to promote
    low carbon urban mass transit and other investments for efficient and sustainable use of energy.

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based financial
             support
 Reviews of progress will be conducted jointly by the Bank, SHCP and concerned line ministries and other
    agencies, including SEMARNAT, SENER and PROTRAM. The outcome indicators in the Operation Policy
    Matrix have been agreed with the Government and, together with the description of the Government’s
    emission reduction program in the Letter of Development Policy, will provide a transparent basis for
    monitoring progress in program implementation.
 Support for the Government’s actions in the DPL’s first and second policy areas will also promote
    transparent progress monitoring, as will the on-going dialogue between the Bank and the Government as it
    develops its National Program for the Use of Renewable Energy and specific low carbon urban transport
    investments.



                                               - 45 -
Looking Forward: The Programmatic Potential of the Green Growth DPL

122. The proposed Green Growth DPL is the latest unifying policy loan that evolves
out of a series of environmental and Climate Change-related SALs and DPLs while
bringing to the forefront sectoral initiatives to combat GHG emissions. Its focus as such
is on the GHG mitigation program and two key sectors of energy and urban
transportation. The Framework for Green Growth DPL has been given a sufficiently
broad title that the programmatic nature of the Bank’s support to Mexico’s
environmentally sound infrastructure initiatives can run its course through this proposed
DPL, both thematically and sectorally. As the diagram below illustrates, the green
framework can be expanded from GHG emissions monitoring and mitigation into
Climate Change adaptation or environmental protection for energy and urban transport
development, and/or it can expand to other sectors. Expansion to other sectors could be
done through the mitigation focus or, in turn, through adaptation or environmental
protection.

  Diagram: Potential Programmatic Continuation of Green Growth Policy Series

                     Framework for Green Growth Programmatic Potential

                                          From CC Mitigation to
         Green Growth DPL                                                      Adaptation
                                                Adaptation
                                                                                 Policy
                                                                               Framework
              Mitigation                            or
                Policy                                                    Environmental
              Framework                  Environmental Protection        Protection Policy
                                        in Energy/Urban Transport           Framework

          Enabling & Monitoring
               Framework                                                     Other Sectors:
              for Mitigation             Regulations, Institutions
                                         and Monitoring Capacity
                                                                        Water
                  Energy                                                Sanitation
                                                                        Solid Waste
              Urban Transport                                           Roads
                                                                        Rail
                                                                        Ports
         Financing Framework              Financing Mechanisms          Housing


                 Energy
                                             In other sectors
             Urban Transport




                                         - 46 -
                      VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

123. Through its support to the strengthening of the regulatory, monitoring, and
financial framework for low emissions evolution of the transport and energy sectors, this
DPL—and the three policy areas that comprise the program—are expected to have
significantly positive social impacts, particularly as it relates to policies that extend the
availability of public transportation and reduce the energy bills of the poor. On the urban
transport side, the country faces the challenge of decreasing its urban transport GHG
emissions while improving the transport system, particularly in large cities where low
quality of public transport services and heavy traffic mainly affect the poor urban
population. The rationalization and expansion of public transport services in a country as
urbanized as Mexico are expected to generate significant co-benefits related to:
(i) improved mobility for the poor who disproportionately rely on public transport;
(ii) improved travel conditions and increased safety for passengers;31 (iii) improved
mobility for women who, more than men, depend on public transport; (iv) lesser overall
street congestion and improved travel times; (v) lower levels of particulate emissions;32
and (vi) improved health impacts from lower exposure to air pollutants. Additional
positive social impacts of the development of mass transport systems will include better
use of public space and associated urban renewal, which would benefit both passengers
and urban dwellers in the areas influenced by these systems.

124. Specifically, this DPL supports policies that will help to implement urban mass
transit projects under PROTRAM, which can benefit urban populations representing
70 percent of the country’s total. In fact, the four Metropolitan Areas which concentrate
around 25 percent of the national population; namely, Mexico City, Guadalajara,
Monterrey, and Puebla, have already started to implement mass transport systems. Cities
like Tijuana, León, Ciudad Juárez, Toluca and Torreón with more than one million
inhabitants, as well as 15 other cities with more than 500,000 inhabitants are also targeted
by PROTRAM.

125. Typical mass transit projects consist of a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) facility that
uses articulated buses (two-body buses for 160 passengers maximum) on exclusive lanes,
stations throughout the alignment that permit payment upon entering the station, and
at-grade boarding of the buses. Additionally, the typical BRT has terminals at the end
points of the exclusive lanes for buses. In them, passengers transfer from feeder buses to
the trunk (or articulated) ones. The typical BRT project entails fewer buses—thanks to
the exclusive lanes and the stations—than when buses operate in mixed traffic. In


31
    Personal safety and the avoidance of harassment are major concerns for women public transit users.
Mexico City’s BRT system, Metrobus, has an innovative gender component that includes “ladies-only”
cars during rush hour.
32
   As shown by the Formulation of the Third Air Quality Management Plan, an IBRD-funded study in
Mexico, obtaining air quality compliance with the WHO standards would yield health and environmental
benefits of about US$2 billion per year.

                                               - 47 -
addition, economies of scale translate into lower total operating costs. Therefore, the
typical BRT project is affordable to any user that already uses public transport. Fares do
not increase because of implementing a BRT project as the examples of Mexico City and
León de Guanajuato illustrate for Mexico. Furthermore, because BRT and mass transit
lines in general also use electronic fare collection systems, it is possible to implement
progressive fare schemes.

126. On the distributive side, implementing a BRT implies transforming the current
bus operators from a one-bus-one-owner (hombre-camión) scheme to a more organized
and efficient operation. Under this scheme, Mexican law grants hombres-camiones solid
rights on their bus and route permits. However, with the implementation of the BRT,
owners will have to sell their bus, which will then be scrapped in order to reduce the
number of buses that compete with the new BRT, and they will have to capitalize to
obtain the right to operate the new BRT. Cities such as Mexico City and León have
introduced mechanisms to help the existing owners transition to the new scheme. For bus
owners, the transition’s impact has been mitigated through compensation such as:
(i) support for capitalization and credits to finance the acquisition of new buses;33
(ii) distribution of dividends to the hombres-camiones now dubbed shareholders, as a
result of higher efficiency and economies of scale of the BRT; and (iii) increased work
stability and benefits such as life insurance, health services, and retirement plans.
Finally, the neighborhoods along the routes of BRT systems also benefit from newly
paved roads that are put in place for the feeder buses.

127. When the mass transit line uses rail technology, the transition from
hombre-camión to operator is more difficult if not impossible. The tariffs in rail transit
systems tend to cover only operation and maintenance costs, and, contrary to bus-based
systems, do not cover capital costs. For rail projects, therefore, a compensation scheme is
usually established to compensate the bus owners with routes that compete with the new
rail transit line.

128. Furthermore, mass transit systems tend to benefit disabled people, allowing for
easy boarding. Female passengers are also likely beneficiaries due to their particular
travel patterns as a result of the various household and child-related responsibilities,
lower travel budgets, fewer options for commuting, and greater security concerns. Given
the specific interest surrounding the nexus of mass transit and gender issues, the UTTP
loan will be supplemented by a grant to carry out a study on Anchoring Gender in
Transport and Development Policies of Urban Cities in Mexico. This initiative, funded
by the Gender Action Plan (GAP), will contribute to the development of gender action
plans through which women, who oftentimes inherit bus ownership licenses in the
traditional hombre-camíón bus system, will be able to participate in--and benefit from--
the new BRT scheme.




33
  The financial model undertaken for the preparation of the UTTP shows that BRT lines are profitable for
private investors at a fare of 5 pesos per ride.

                                                - 48 -
129. Finally, as mass transit projects need to accommodate the transit corridor,
stations, or other facilities, a comprehensive social and environmental management
framework has been designed as part of the UTTP to address displacement and other
social and environmental impacts of mass transit interventions.

130. The energy efficiency policies supported by this DPL are also likely to have
significant positive and progressive social impacts through the reduction of electricity
bills brought about by targeted replacement of high energy-use appliances and bulbs. On
renewable energy projects, it is conceivable that the policies supported in this program
will lead to projects with negative social impacts for those living in and around a site
location while providing positive social impacts for others, including health benefits from
lower particulate emissions.
131. The country systems and engagement of the Bank with Mexico to address these
potential downstream social and environmental impacts are discussed at the end of the
Environmental Impact section below. At the same time, however, the new policy
framework for renewable energy development will have a significant positive impact on
several specific consumer groups. Namely, while the overall rate of electricity access in
Mexico approaches 98 percent, still, through the new policy framework, in particular the
policies promoting the use of solar energy, the Government aims to provide electricity
access to an additional 3.5 million people-- 60 percent of which are indigenous peoples –
living mostly in isolated rural areas in the country’s Southern States.


ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT

132. In addressing climate change issues, the proposed reforms are expected to have
significant positive environmental impacts that will be brought about through the
building of incentives and regulations that reduce emissions and through the
improvement of environmental licensing and regulations. The policy actions that
comprise the Green Growth DPL are expected to contribute to overall positive
environmental impacts particularly as they relate to emission reductions and co-benefits
from reductions in urban local pollutants.

133. In Urban Transport, the operation of well-run and designed BRT systems has the
potential to reduce exposure to airborne pollutants and air toxics, the experience of
Mexico City being a case in point. According to the measurements conducted to estimate
the effects of the METROBUS operation on local pollutants, the concentrations of CO,
PM2.5, PM10, and benzene decreased significantly. Additionally, the operation of
Insurgentes, the main BRT artery, has resulted in a 95 percent reduction in accidents,
representing an additional economic benefit.34 The reasons for this significant reduction
and associated health benefits from the METROBUS system include: (a) improved
technologies with better emission controls; (b) fewer stops than in the previous system,
thus reducing major emissions during start-ups; and (c) separate bus lanes and reduced
generation of airborne pollutants in the area of influence of the corridor.


34
     Clean Technology Fund Investment Plan for Mexico. January 16, 2009.

                                                  - 49 -
134. Although the Green Growth DPL does not finance or elicit particular projects,
downstream environmental impacts of BRT program and other mass transit systems
include possible property requirements and disturbances during construction, such as
higher emissions of particulate matter and traffic detours that increase travel time.
However, the prototypical Mexican city tends to have wide streets that can be adapted to
one exclusive lane per direction for buses. The width of the existing road usually makes
it unnecessary to purchase nearby properties. In downtown areas streets could be narrow,
in which case the typical solution is to split the corridor in two and send one direction of
travel along one street and the other direction of travel on a different street. Therefore, no
properties need to be purchased. Impacts during construction, on the other hand, can be
mitigated through adequate management plans that follow Mexican law.

135. In the Energy sector, the environmental impacts expected from the
implementation of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency programs, similarly, are
significant and positive. The adoption of RE and EE measures will provide a variety of
local and regional air quality benefits through their role in reducing the use of fossil fuels
for electricity generation. Additionally, the replacement of fossil fuel-based generation is
expected to reduce pollution of water supply, reduce harm to public health and,
potentially, enhance local ecosystem services. On the environmental impacts of scaling
up wind power, specific relevant studies35 are already underway.

136. In its dialogue with the Government of Mexico, through these kinds of studies and
through the MOUs with SENER (Energy) and Hacienda (Urban Transport), the Bank will
continue to help the relevant agencies in developing a framework and, where necessary,
the capacity to identify, assess, monitor and evaluate, and manage such effects with a
view to mitigating any adverse effects and optimizing the positive. Through the Energy
Sector Management and Assistance Program (ESMAP), for instance, the World Bank
will support the Government of Mexico, over the next two years, in identifying
mechanisms to address environmental and social issues when developing renewable
energy projects, including the expected sharing of costs and benefits.

137. The Bank has a long track record of engagement with the Government of Mexico
to enhance the identification and management of infrastructure-related environmental
impacts. These efforts include improvements to the management of sectoral impacts
associated with urban transport and energy projects – such as the recently approved
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) prepared by the Government
of Mexico, outlining comprehensive procedures for environmental and social
management of, for example, urban transport investments supported through the UTTP,
and large-scale wind investments in La Venta II and La Venta III (located in Oaxaca,
Mexico). In addition to efforts to support environmental mainstreaming within the
sectors, there is a long history of engagement with SEMARNAT, the federal
environmental authority, to improve environmental regulation and management of
infrastructure investments, including, for example, through promoting improved


35
   For example, Guidelines for Scaling-up Wind Energy Development (P109850) and La Venta II
(P080104).

                                            - 50 -
environmental licensing practices. The Bank has also worked with the Government of
Mexico to incorporate environmental and social management considerations at more
programmatic and strategic levels, including through the recent engagement with the
Federal Electricity Commission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad or CFE) on
incorporating Strategic Environmental Assessment into their planning process, as well as
with SENER for management of their mini-hydroelectric portfolio. Moreover, projects
pushed forward by the Government of Mexico must prepare an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) in compliance with the Mexican Environmental Law (Ley General del
Equilibrio Ecológico y la Protección al Ambiente, LGEEPA).

138. In addition, demonstrating the robustness of Mexico’s legal framework for
environmental management, Mexico is the only country in Latin America where a pilot
project – supporting roads, water and sanitation, and housing infrastructure – was
implemented using “Country Systems” for safeguards, in accordance with OP 4.00.

139. In sum, this DPL, supported by the Bank’s other investment and advisory efforts
– and building on existing and ongoing engagement -- in Mexico’s energy and transport
sectors, is expected to contribute positively to the sectors' ability to manage
environmental and social impacts and risks, and to strengthen stakeholder engagement
and transparency. CFE has previously requested assistance from the Bank in developing
capacity for strategic environmental and social assessment. Two successful workshops
were held in 2007 and 2008, and CFE has expressed interest in continuing this dialogue
with the eventual aim of strengthening the sector's overall management of
safeguards-related issues. The dialogue facilitated by the DPL will include these issues,
with likely engagement both on reform processes and institutional capacity building.


IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

140. The proposed program addresses monitoring and evaluation on two planes. On
one substantive level related to the over-all program objective, the DPL includes a Policy
Area on institutional and regulatory arrangements that is itself focused on monitoring and
evaluation. It calls for the institutional and regulatory framework to establish baseline
valuation of emissions and sector-level monitoring capacity for the emissions reduction
program at the sectoral level.

141. On a second level, the program establishes clear monitoring and evaluation
criteria for each of its proposed policy areas. Because of the focus on policy, regulatory
and institutional development, the majority of the monitoring steps involve one-step
evaluation of program achievements. The medium-term objectives related to capacity
development of financing mechanisms, however, require monitoring and evaluation
criteria that signal the programs’ momentum and early success in promoting low
emission programs in urban transport as well as energy efficiency and renewable energy.

142. The implementation and sustainability of the Urban Transport program defined in
the DPL (under Policy areas 2 and 3) are intricately linked to the implementation of the
Government’s Urban Transport Transformation Program (supported by a World Bank

                                          - 51 -
SIL under preparation). The Monitoring and Evaluation of the relevant components of
the Green Growth DPL (listed in Annex 2) and the parallel SIL will be mutually
reinforcing, for example in data collection. Regarding the Energy sector programs
supported by the DPL, each one of the sectoral Ministries and agencies involved in this
operation (SHCP, SEMARNAT and SENER) will be responsible for the implementation
of their proposed components and for reporting their progress. The Ministry of
Environment (SEMARNAT) will be responsible for the coordination among these
agencies in the DPL. Annex 2 lists the indicators that will be monitored for the program
under each of the Policy Areas.

143. The World Bank will provide assistance in Monitoring and Evaluation as part of
its Environmental MOU with the Government by financing the hiring of an expert to
work with SEMARNAT to ensure that the M&E system for the PECC is being set up
properly, supporting data collection on environmental indicators, including indicators
fitting the activities from the PECC to complement the Climate Change indicators already
included in the Programa de Transversalidad, and financing assistance to SEMARNAT
for an annual stock-taking of the implementation of the PECC and communication of the
findings to review policy design and progress and maintain accountability and
transparency.

144. The implementation of the sector reforms and the regulatory framework
embedded in the PECC is likely to require strong inter-institutional coordination capacity,
horizontally as well as vertically. In response to this anticipated need, the World Bank
will be engaged through lending instruments and technical assistance programs in
supporting the Government of Mexico in implementing its Urban Transport, Energy
Efficiency and Renewable Energy programs. A core element of the assistance is helping
to build the capacity of the institutions involved and to strengthen the linkages of those
institutions in their policy-setting, investment review and financing capacities. In urban
transport, a parallel investment program and technical assistance program is concurrently
being prepared by the Bank that will help address institutional capacity constraints at
both municipal and federal levels through the primary planning, financing and monitoring
requirements of the program. These sister initiatives are described in detail in the
Analytical Underpinnings and Operation Description sections of the Program Document,
as well as in Annex 4.


FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

145. In general, public financial management (PFM) systems in the Mexican federal
administration are adequate for DPL lending, as documented in the 2003 Country
Financial Accountability Assessment, 2007 Country Procurement Assessment Report,
and other analytical work. The DPL would fund the Federal Expenditure Budget (PEF)
and, accordingly, be subject to provisions of the annual PEF Law, the Federal Budget and
Fiscal Responsibility Law, the Government Accounting Law, the Manual of Budget
Procedures, and others. This set of legal and regulatory arrangements, together with their
implementation systems, provides for sound budget formulation, execution and control
arrangements. Other internal control aspects are ruled by the Federal Public

                                          - 52 -
Administration Internal Control Standards. As for external oversight, the Federal
Supreme Audit Institution executes regularly a number of performance, financial and
compliance audits on government programs, and their results are made public in the
annual audit report on the Federal Public Accounts. Good systems are in place for
follow-up to internal and external audit findings. There is room for improvement in some
PFM areas, such as certain procurement and accounting practices that are not completely
up to international standards, but there are plans underway –which the Bank is
supporting- to move in that direction.

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

146. The flow-of-fund arrangements are those customarily observed in DPLs for
Mexico, as per long-standing agreements with the Government. The Ministry of Finance
(SHCP) has informed the World Bank that BANSEFI will be the financial agent of the
Borrower with regard to the DPL. Under this arrangement, upon effectiveness the Bank
would make the single tranche disbursement to a designated account in US Dollars of
BANSEFI,36 for subsequent credit to an account of the National Treasury
(SHCP/Tesorería de la Federación, or TESOFE) used for general budget expenditures.
The funds would thus become available for financing of budget expenditures through the
PFM systems mentioned in the previous paragraph. If requested by the Bank, the SHCP
would provide the Bank with a written confirmation of the described transaction.

147. Based on the review of external audit reports and the extensive flow-of-fund
experience between the Bank and BANSEFI, nothing has come to the attention of Bank
staff that would indicate that the banking control environment into which the DPL
proceeds would flow is other than adequate.

148. Based on the assessment of the PFM and banking environments, no additional
fiduciary arrangements are deemed necessary for the DPL.


RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

149. The matrix below set out a set of key risks, and their mitigating measures, that
might be anticipated as part of the Green Growth DPL proposed in this program
document.      The matrix focuses on economic, fiscal, regulatory, institutional,
environmental and social risks that reflect the breadth of the policy initiatives proposed as
well as the depth of the sectoral reforms.
150. The matrix outlines not only the risks of immediate concern over the one-year
timeframe of the Green Growth DPL, but also addresses the risks pertaining to the
medium- and longer-term sustainability of the Government’s program to be put in place
with the support of the DPL.


36
  The use of a financial agent and dedicated account is a local standard procedure established by the
Government of Mexico for their control purposes, not an additional arrangement requested by the Bank.

                                               - 53 -
Risks to the Sustainability of the Programs Supported by the Green Growth DPL

        Economic and Fiscal Risks                                 Mitigation Measure

 The global financial crisis may cause a sharp    The Bank is engaged in a continued dialogue with the
 downturn of Mexico’s economic activity           Government of Mexico, and the Government has
 and falling tax revenues, and possibly have      confirmed that the projects and institutions supported
 an effect on the Government of Mexico’s          by the Green Growth DPL are given priority in its
 ability to finance sectoral programs,            spending program. FONADIN and other revenue
 including the energy fund.                       stabilization funds can also be seen as a risk
                                                  mitigating factor, allowing the Government of
                                                  Mexico to draw financing for infrastructure
                                                  investments.

 Falling tax revenues may diminish the            The significant assistance package--of which this
 resources    available    to   states  and       operation is part--includes the technical and financial
 municipalities for making investments.           resources needed to manage those situations.

                                                  The Government Program, the Green Growth DPL
 The long-term aims of the program may be
                                                  and related technical assistance activities require the
 at risk in the absence of reforms which
                                                  design of power purchasing arrangements that value
 facilitate private investment in generation
                                                  the external costs of renewable energy. This will
 based upon market prices for renewable
                                                  support the development of a market for private
 energy.
                                                  investment in renewable generation.

                                                  With support from the Green Growth DPL, the latest
                                                  stage in the Government’s program actively mitigates
 The current financial crisis could cause the     this risk on several fronts. The Urban Transport
 private sector to refrain from investing in      policies create a program of incentives to mobilize
 urban transport projects. (PROTRAM, in           private investment in mass transit systems under a
 particular, has an indicative minimum            structure that will allow for profitability of the
 requirement for private sector participation     expected investments even at low and affordable
 of 35 percent of total costs.)                   tariff levels.    The sister investment programs
                                                  supported by the World Bank provide technical and
                                                  financial resources for the program.
 A similar risk exists for the Energy
 program, in that the financial crisis may        This risk of lack of private sector interest is being
 cause private investors to refrain from          addressed through the new regulatory framework for
 participating in Energy investments until        Renewable Energy in which the Government, with
 international and local financial markets        support from the Green Growth DPL, will derive a
 recover.                                         methodology for valuing renewable purchase prices
                                                  and target levels for renewable generation that
                                                  facilitate investment. In addition, the Government is
                                                  demonstrating its commitment to attracting the
                                                  necessary investment through the creation and
                                                  capitalization of the Fund for the Energy Transition
                                                  and the Sustainable Use of Energy. Grants will be
                                                  available for credit guarantees and other financial
                                                  support to projects that comply with the National
                                                  Strategy for the Energy Transition and the
                                                  Sustainable Use of Energy.




                                                 - 54 -
     Political and Institutional Risks                              Mitigation Measure

                                                     In an effort to address the vertical and horizontal
                                                     collaboration issues as well as the related concerns
                                                     about institutional capacity, the Bank is currently
                                                     supporting the Government through capacity-building
                                                     programs and investment lending that strengthen the
                                                     ability of the institutions to plan, implement, and
                                                     monitor sectoral programs. The Urban Transport
                                                     program, financed in part by a sister Bank SIL and
 The implementation of programs supported
                                                     CTF under preparation, provides direct incentives for
 by the proposed DPL will require significant
                                                     municipal collaboration and participation in the
 multi-institutional      and     federal-state-
                                                     federally funded mass transit program as well as
 municipal collaboration.        For example,
                                                     grant resources for urban master planning. The
 Urban Transport planning and financing will
                                                     Consultative Working Group of PROTRAM brings
 require vertical collaboration among federal
                                                     together the federal agencies required to offer an
 and municipal agencies. Likewise, close
                                                     integrated set of policies and financing instruments
 coordination among the Ministry of Energy,
                                                     for urban development. The final decisions on
 the Ministry of Environment, Public
                                                     financing come from FONADIN’s Technical
 utilities, and federal sub-national institutions
                                                     Committee which brings together state governments
 will be key to success in mainstreaming
                                                     with the Environment Ministry and Transport
 electricity generation from RE sources. The
                                                     Ministry under the leadership of the Ministry of
 cross-institutional nature of the program and
                                                     Finance.     Likewise, the energy sector reforms
 the uneven capacity across the sectoral
                                                     underway and supported by this DPL strengthen the
 agencies at federal, regional, state, and
                                                     sector agencies responsible for the evolution of the
 municipal levels, thus, present a risk to an
                                                     renewable and efficiency programs, from the energy
 even and timely implementation of reforms
                                                     regulatory bodies, the Ministry of Energy, the Funds
 going forward.
                                                     related to the financing support of the programs, and
                                                     the environmental agency counterparts. The process
                                                     for gaining approval of the Special Program for
                                                     Climate Change (PECC) has entailed a strong
                                                     collaboration among federal government agencies as
                                                     well as with sub-national institutions embedded
                                                     within a set of agency-level commitments to
                                                     implement the program at the sectoral level.

  Political and Institutional Risks (Ctd.)                          Mitigation Measure
                                                     The overall urban transport package includes an
                                                     IBRD investment loan as well as concessional
                                                     financing through a Clean Technology Fund
                                                     investment loan and has resources to help cities
PROTRAM projects might not deliver the               prepare projects and advise them on adequate
full range of possible benefits because of           implementation. This will substantially increases the
inadequate preparation, institutional capacity       attractiveness of the program for uptake by
or problems during implementation.                   municipalities. Since the investment loan will cover
                                                     a subset of projects of PROTRAM, the Government
                                                     of Mexico and the WB will work together through an
                                                     MOU and in the context of the UTTP to replicate
                                                     good practices to the overall PROTRAM program.




                                                    - 55 -
                                                  Political developments, to the extent that they affect
                                                  decision-making processes in the Congress, are not
                                                  expected to have an impact on the programs
                                                  supported by the DPL, at least in the short-term. For
                                                  example, Mexico’s energy sector laws have already
                                                  been approved, and the Ministry of Energy is
                                                  committed to the implementation of the RE Law.
                                                  Inevitably, the long-term commitment of the
                                                  Government to addressing emission reductions and
Political changes can potentially threaten the
                                                  the Climate Change agenda more broadly will depend
sustainability of program implementation.
                                                  upon growing public awareness and institutional
                                                  strength of the agencies involved. To this end, the
                                                  Bank’s holistic program of support attempts to
                                                  address     both the public’s involvement in the
                                                  agenda—through the PECC consultations for
                                                  example, and the institutions that will carry out the
                                                  sectoral (e.g., PROTRAM, FONADIN, SENER,
                                                  CONNUE) and cross-sectoral (e.g., SEMARNAT,
                                                  Presidencia, SHCP) initiatives.

     Social and Environmental Risks                              Mitigation Measure
                                                  In its dialogue with the Government of Mexico, the
                                                  development of the CTF and Urban Transport
                                                  programs, and in related AAA, the project team will
 The proposed reforms could have unforeseen
                                                  continue to support the Government of Mexico in
 distributional and environmental impacts
                                                  developing a framework and the capacity to identify,
 through changes in fiscal/subsidization
                                                  assess, monitor and evaluate, manage and mitigate
 policy,     environmental  licensing   and
                                                  any adverse effects caused by the program. In
 regulation.
                                                  general, the Government of Mexico has the data,
                                                  resources, and institutional capacity to manage these
                                                  issues effectively.




                                                 - 56 -
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                - 57 -
- 58 -
                         ANNEX 2: OPERATION POLICY MATRIX


  Program Development Objective:

  1.     The Overall Program Development Objective is to support stimulus of the
  economy while strengthening the framework for long-term sustainable growth. This will
  be achieved by further developing the regulatory, monitoring and financial framework for
  low emissions evolution of the transport and energy sectors.
  2.       The three Policy Areas of the DPL thus aim to:
         implement a verifiable, targeted and cross-sectoral strategy for emission
          reductions;
         establish institutions, regulations and monitoring capacity to allow for the
          reduction of emissions in urban transport, energy generation and efficiency; and
         institutionalize the appropriate financing mechanisms to allow for the reduction of
          emissions in urban transport, energy generation and efficiency.

                                        Policy Area 1
             Comprehensive Policy Framework for the Reduction of Emissions Across Sectors

 Policy Area                           Outputs (at DPL          Medium Term            Monitoring and Evaluation
                   Prior Actions
  Objective                              ICR date)               Outcomes                     Indicators
1. Implement a   1. Approval and       1a. Completion of        1. Reduction of     1. For the Electricity sector, the
verifiable,      publication of the    the National             emissions of        measures according to the PECC
targeted and     Special Program       Emissions Inventory      MtCO2e              timeline are specified in M.14-18 for
cross-sectoral   for Climate           (Inventario              according to        RE-related reductions and in M.36-37
strategy for     Change (PECC) in      Nacional de              PECC plan. For      and 44 for EE-related reductions. 38
emission         the Diario Oficial    Emisiones) which         the electricity     RE: Baseline: 0
reductions.      de la Federación.     serves as basis of 4th   sector, the goals
                                       Communication.           are defined in          Target 7.99 MtCO2e
                                                                M.14-18 of the          (2012)
                                       1b. Submission by
                                       the Government of        PECC for RE and     EE: Baseline: 0
                                       the 4th National         in M.36-37 and 44       Target 5.33 MtCO2e
                                       Communication to         for EE.                 (2012)
                                       the UNFCCC.                                  For transport sector-related
                                                                In the transport    reductions, the measures are specified
                                                                sector, goals are   in M.24-35.39
                                                                defined in          Baseline: 0
                                                                M.24-M.35 of the    Target: 11.35 MtCO2e (2012)
                                                                PECC. 37



  37
    “M.” = “Meta” or “Goal” as defined in the PECC.
  38
    M.14-18 refer to annual CO2 emissions reductions to be achieved through an increase in hydro, wind,
  geothermal, and solar-based generating capacity and its share in the overall generating mix, financed by
  both public and private investors. M.36-37 and 44 aim for electricity savings and associated emissions
  reduction through improved energy efficiency in the commercial sector, public buildings and municipalities
  and through replacement of inefficient electric appliances.

                                                    - 59 -
                                           Policy Area 2
       Enabling and Monitoring Framework for the Reduction of Emissions in Transport and Energy

 Policy Area                          Outputs (at            Medium Term             Monitoring and Evaluation
                  Prior Actions
  Objective                          DPL ICR date)            Outcomes                      Indicators

                                                             Urban Transport
                 2a. Resolution     2a(i). PROTRAM       2a. Municipalities’    2a(i).Municipalities that have prepared
                 for the            has adopted          programs for urban     urban transport programs based on
                 establishment      guidelines for       transport              PROTRAM adopted guidelines.
                 of PROTRAM         urban transport      incorporate            Baseline: 0
                 in accordance      planning that        sustainability and
                 with               mainstream           climate change         Target: 2
                 PROTRAM            climate change.      considerations.        2a(ii). Municipalities that have developed
Establish        Guidelines; and    2a(ii).                                     emissions baselines for transit corridors.
institutions,    FONADIN’s          PROTRAM has                                 Based on PROTRAM adopted
regulations      participation in   adopted                                     methodology guidelines.
and              the Consultative   methodology                                 Baseline: 0
monitoring       Working Group      guidelines for
                 (Grupo de                                                      Target: 2
capacity to                         developing
                 Trabajo            corridor emission
allow for the
                 Consultivo) of     baselines.
reduction of     PROTRAM.
emissions in
urban
transport,                                                       Energy
energy
generation and   2b. Energy         2b&c.                2b&c. An               2b&c. Publication of regulations in the
efficiency.      Efficiency Law     Regulations          effective regulatory   Diario Oficial de la Federación for the
                 passed;            defining the terms   framework that         Program for the use of renewable energy;
                 CONUEE             of the two laws.     promotes energy        and the Program for the sustainable use of
                 created.                                efficiency and         energy.
                 2c. Renewable                           renewable energy.
                                    2b&c.
                 Energy Law         Development of                              2b&c. Verification by SEMARNAT of
                 passed.            methodologies for    2b&c. Annual           the sector’s compliance with the energy
                                    the quantification   Evaluation Report      efficiency and renewable energy-related
                                    of GHG for the       by SEMARNAT of         emissions reductions goals established in
                                    exploitation,        GHG emissions in       M.14-18 for RE-related reductions and in
                                    production,          the energy sector.     M.36-37 and 44 for EE-related
                                    transformation,                             reductions.
                                    distribution, and
                                    consumption of
                                    energy, as well as
                                    for the avoided
                                    emissions.




  39
     M.24-M.35 refer to annual CO2 emissions savings that will be achieved through reduced consumption of
  diesel and gasoline by freight and passenger transport vehicles, expanded use and modernization of public
  transport and mass transit systems, and technical improvements and regular renovation of the vehicle fleet,
  among other sectoral interventions.

                                                    - 60 -
                                             Policy Area 3
                          Establishment of Financing Mechanisms to Facilitate
                          the Reduction of Emissions in Transport and Energy

 Policy Area                           Outputs (at DPL             Medium Term                Monitoring and
                   Prior Actions
  Objective                              ICR date)                  Outcomes                Evaluation Indicators

                                                           Urban Transport
                   3a. Presidential    3a. FONADIN’s           3a. FONADIN has              3. Number of requests for
                   Decree, Fourth      technical               evolved into a source of     funding received by
                   Modifying           committee               funding that facilitates     FONADIN (Grupo de
                   Agreement, and      approves funding        sustainability and           Trabajo Consultivo) for
                   Operating Rules     for urban transport     climate change               urban transport programs
Institutionalize   establishing        programs that           considerations for           that promote reduction of
the appropriate    FONADIN.            incorporate climate     municipalities preparing     emissions
financing                              change                  their mass transit support   Baseline: 0
mechanisms to                          considerations.         programs.
                                                                                            Target: 10
allow for the
reduction of
emissions in                                                    Energy
urban transport,   3b.
energy                                 3b. The Fund has        3b. Increase electricity     3b(i). Targets established
                   Establishment of    been capitalized so     generation from              in M. 14-18 of the PECC
generation and     the Fund for        as to finance at        renewable sources as         and monitored by
efficiency.        Energy              least one pilot         established in M. 14-18      SEMARNAT.
                   Transition & the    project in Energy       of the PECC by end-
                   Sustainable Use                                                          Baseline: 0
                                       Efficiency.             2012.
                   of Energy; and                                                           Target: 3,367 MW
                   the promulgation    3c. The Technical
                                       Committee, chaired                                   3b(ii). Program delineated
                   of regulations to
                                       by SENER, has                                        for replacement of
                   define the Fund’s
                                       developed a                                          incandescent light bulbs
                   operations.
                                       publicly available                                   with CFLs, replacement
                                       inventory,                                           of inefficient appliances;
                                       including                                            and improved efficiency
                                       geographical                                         of street lighting in
                                       mapping, of                                          municipalities.
                                       projects eligible for
                                       financing from the
                                       Fund.




                                                  - 61 -
                        ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE




Publications
Staff Report         IMF Executive Board Approves US$47 Billion Arrangement
Mexico:              for Mexico Under the Flexible Credit Line
Arrangement          Press Release No. 09/130
Under the Flexible   April 17, 2009
Credit Line          The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
April 7, 2009        today approved a one year SDR 31.5 billion (about US$47 billion)
                     arrangement for Mexico under the Flexible Credit Line (FCL). The
Press Releases       Mexican authorities have stated they intend to treat the
                     arrangement as precautionary and do not intend to draw on the
                     line.
Mexico and the
IMF                  The arrangement for Mexico is the first commitment under the
                     IMF’s FCL, which was created in the context of a major overhaul of
                     the Fund’s lending framework on March 24, 2009 (see Press
                     Release No. 09/85 and Public Information Notice 09/40). The FCL
                     is particularly useful for crisis prevention purposes as it provides
                     the flexibility to draw on the credit line at any time.
                     Disbursements are not phased nor conditioned on compliance with
                     policy targets as in traditional IMF-supported programs. This
                     flexible access is justified by the very strong track records of
                     countries that qualify for the FCL, which gives confidence that
                     their economic policies will remain strong.
                     Following the Executive Board discussion of Mexico, Mr. John
                     Lipsky, First Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chairman of the
                     Board, made the following statement:
                     “Today is a historic occasion. The IMF Executive Board has
                     approved the first Flexible Credit Line (FCL) arrangement and, at
                     the same time, the largest financial arrangement in the Fund’s
                     history. The approval of this arrangement for Mexico represents
                     the consolidation of a major step in the process of reforming the
                     IMF and making its lending framework more relevant to member
                     countries’ needs.
                     “For over a decade, Mexico’s macroeconomic performance has
                     been very strong, exemplified by solid growth with low inflation; a
                     steady reduction in public debt, and strengthened corporate
                     balance sheets; a contained current account deficit; and a
                     profitable and well capitalized banking sector. This has been
                     underpinned by a highly credible and very strong policy
                     framework, including a successful inflation targeting regime that
                     has supported the commitment to the flexible exchange rate; a
                     rules-based fiscal framework; and strong and sophisticated
                     financial sector supervision.
                     “However, the current difficult global economic and financial
                     environment poses challenges even for countries with very strong
                     fundamentals. As the global situation has deteriorated, Mexican

                                          - 62 -
asset prices have fallen sharply in line with the global market sell
off, and GDP growth has slowed sharply. While Mexico’s
underlying fundamentals remain very strong, and the balance of
payments position is manageable, the open capital account and
close global financial linkages––on top of close trade links with the
United States––could expose the country to potential downside
risks.
“The authorities have taken robust and timely measures to
respond to the deteriorating global situation, including steps to
maintain orderly functioning of domestic markets, and to facilitate
the refinancing of corporate external debt; fiscal stimulus to
support demand, while simultaneously announcing measures to
ensure medium term fiscal sustainability; and monetary policy
easing. Looking forward, policies will continue to be underpinned
by the rules based macroeconomic framework, accompanied by
continued close monitoring of financial and corporate sector
developments, and the authorities intend to continue to react as
needed to any future shocks that may arise.
“It is against this background that, at the authorities’ request, the
Executive Board today approved a one year arrangement under
the IMF’s FCL, which the authorities intend to treat as
precautionary. The Executive Board considered that Mexico was an
excellent candidate to pioneer this facility. The FCL will play an
important     role    in  supporting     the   authorities’   overall
macroeconomic strategy and in bolstering confidence until
external conditions improve, complementing the previously agreed
swap line with the U.S. Federal Reserve, as well as financing from
other multilaterals. All told, Mexico’s combination of strong
macroeconomic policies, institutional policy frameworks, and
economic fundamentals, together with the additional insurance
provided by the arrangement under the FCL, provides assurance
that Mexico is in a very strong position to manage any potential
risks and pressures in the event that the global situation were to
deteriorate further,” Mr. Lipsky said.




IMF EXTERNAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
Public Affairs    Media Relations
Phone: 202-623-7300      Phone: 202-623-7100
Fax:   202-623-6278      Fax:    202-623-6772




                      - 63 -
ANNEX 4: RELATIONSHIP OF OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
      TO THE FRAMEWORK FOR GREEN GROWTH DPL
         Previous and Currently Ongoing Analytical Work




                             - 64 -
Aside from the Climate Change and Environmental DPLs that are described in detail in
the main document, recent Bank operations in Mexico in the areas of environment and
Climate Change as well as their related Memoranda of Understanding for Bank Technical
Support include:
      Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with SEMARNAT. The purpose of this
       MOU is to enhance climate change policy dialogue, and further strengthen
       Mexico’s capacity to mainstream environmental consideration into productive
       sectors as well as to implement its National Climate Change Strategy and Special
       Program for Climate Change. The MOU comprises a variety of activities,
       including: (i) support to key studies, such as the MEDEC Low Carbon Economy
       study, the Economics of Climate Change Study, and the Clean Technology Fund
       Investment Plan, all of which have been completed; (ii) a legal and institutional
       assessment for implementation of the Special Program for Climate Change
       (PECC);        (iii) preparation of Sub-national climate change strategies;
       (iv) mainstreaming climate change and other environmental considerations into
       energy-intensive and/or climate-prone sectors, including energy, housing and
       agriculture; and (v) design of a Cap and Trade System for Mexico. On the final
       point – Design of a Cap and Trade System – the Government of Mexico, with
       Bank support, is assessing Mexico’s options for mitigating GHG emissions,
       through regulation and CO2 pricing, and the respective economic implications.
       Specifically, the study is considering the following options: continuation of
       current policies; the institution of emission caps on one or more sectors; and the
       implementation of policies to reduce emissions from targeted sectors while
       monetizing emission reductions in international carbon markets that accept
       sectoral offsets.
      The Environmental MOU with SEMARNAT follows the Mexico Environmental
       Sustainability Development Policy Loan (P095510), initiated in early 2008 and
       closed in late 2009. The DPL supported policy and institutional reforms to
       promote sustainable development with the overarching objective of balancing
       socio-economic development with environmental protection and improvement.
       The operation was intended to complement actions supported by the Climate
       Change DPL and to further pursue the general objectives of a previous
       Environment DPL Program, by integrating environmental concerns in the sectoral
       policies and programs of key development sectors--tourism, energy, forestry,
       water, agriculture, and housing--as prioritized by the Government of Mexico.
      The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for Technical Assistance to the
       Implementation of PROTRAM (P117624) is being developed as a framework of
       collaboration between the SCHP and the World Bank for the effective
       implementation of the PROTRAM. Work will focus on five areas: (i) support for
       the preparation of urban transport projects, (ii) mass transit program performance
       monitoring, (iii) support in the development of methodologies for evaluation and
       risk management, (iv) contribution to the institutional organization of urban
       transport at the federal level, and (v) support for capacity building activities,
       horizontal collaboration, and systematic analysis of urban transport in Mexico. As

                                         - 65 -
    part of this MoU, the Carbon Partnership Facility will support cities in developing
    methodologies for transport emissions trading.
   Low Carbon, High Growth: Latin American Responses to Climate Change, the
    Bank's flagship report on LAC, provides a scientific background to the specific
    instances of policy engagement and operational work. The comprehensive study
    explores how the region’s countries are exposed to climate change impacts and,
    on the flipside, what they can do to avert its effects, both unilaterally and with the
    incentives of a global climate agreement to be negotiated next year in
    Copenhagen by the United Nations.
   Through the Mexico Low-Carbon Study (MEDEC), implemented from August
    2007 until mid-2009, the Bank assisted the Government of Mexico in assessing
    the country’s potential for low carbon growth and the macroeconomic and fiscal
    implications of a low carbon development plan, highlighting Mexico’s potential
    for reducing carbon emissions from specific sectors, including transport, power
    generation, and end-use energy efficiency. Based on a common economic
    cost-benefit analysis, the study estimates the net costs, emissions reductions, and
    upfront investment that would be needed to maintain carbon emissions relatively
    constant over the next two decades while meeting existing economic and social
    development objectives.
   Through the CDM Technical Assistance project (P104731), which was
    implemented by Centro Mario Molina and Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
    or BANCOMEXT, the World Bank provided technical assistance for the design
    of the Mexican Carbon Fund and project screening and carbon finance due
    diligence. The project was approved in late 2008 and closed in March 2009.
   By providing the Government of Mexico with an Institutional Development Fund
    (IDF) grant, the World Bank supported the government in its effort to strengthen
    institutional capacity by establishing a Climate Change Office (CCO). Likewise,
    the IDF supported the identification of economic instruments for the
    internalization of climate change concerns in economic planning.
   The Mexico’s Energy Sector Memorandum of Understanding with SENER
    (P114892), to be implemented from February 2009 until May 2010, is another
    example of technical assistance to the Government of Mexico to further
    strengthen the country’s capacity to implement its Energy strategy. Specifically,
    the MOU supports the Government of Mexico in integrating its policy to promote
    the use of RE sources in power generation, analyzing options for modifying the
    regulatory framework for energy efficiency, designing programs to promote the
    use of efficient lighting and appliances, and integrating the National Energy
    Strategy.
   The Mexico Memorandum of Understanding on Subnational Climate Change
    Plans (P105849) will be implemented until early 2010.




                                        - 66 -
Related Operational Work

Urban Transport

      The Bank has supported Mexico through the Mexican Medium Size Cities
       Transport Program (P007648), which strengthened local agencies and supported
       the federal urban transport decentralization process. This project also helped cities
       develop their first Integrated Transport Plans, a comprehensive approach to
       transport planning at the city level. Having an ITP is required for a city to
       participate in the PROTRAM and the UTTP.
      Through a fee for service Mexico Mass Urban Transport Federal Program
       (P110474), the Bank worked closely with Mexico in designing, creating and
       establishing PROTRAM. The resulting report, “Programa Federal de Apoyo al
       Transporte Masivo: Fundamentos del Programa y Lineamientos para su
       implementación en el marco del FONADIN,” laid the foundations for
       PROTRAM. This technical assistance program was implemented from late 2007
       until August 2008.
      The Urban Transport Transformation Program or UTTP (P107159) is expected
       to be approved in August 2009. The UTTP is a comprehensive urban transport
       intervention loan (with a contribution from the CTF) that particularly emphasizes
       the development of mass transit, NMT, and introduction of low-emissions
       vehicles. Its aim is to improve the long-term sustainability, efficiency and quality
       of urban transport in Mexico, and reduce GHG emissions and local criteria
       pollutants. Through BANOBRAS, the UTTP/CTF loan will allow cities to receive
       credits at significantly lower rates than market rates for projects that contribute to
       placing urban transport in low-carbon growth path.
      The Sustainable Transport and Air Quality (STAQ) project (P114012), a Global
       Environment Facility (GEF) operation to be approved in September 2009, will
       offer grants for preparing projects in four Mexican cities (Puebla, Monterrey,
       León, and Ciudad Juarez), all of which are currently part of the PROTRAM
       pipeline of projects. It will thereby help reduce the amount of CO2 and air
       pollutants by facilitating the use of public transportation and non-motorized
       modes, as well as planning for physical investments and regulatory frameworks
       that reduce the need for excessive movement of people and goods. Likewise, the
       project will facilitate the ability of policy makers, civic leaders, and technical staff
       in cities to articulate a sustainable transport vision adapted to local conditions, and
       to identify concrete and measurable steps to move toward that vision. Finally, it
       will facilitate the ability of cities to share knowledge, information, and
       methodologies relevant to their development of sustainable transport visions.
      The Anchoring Gender in Transport and Development Policies of Urban Cities in
       Mexico This initiative, associated with the Urban Transport Transformation
       Project (UTTP), intends to mainstream gender in the transformation process to a
       BRT system in the city of León. The is financed by the Gender Action Plan
       (GAP) multi-donor trust fund and is closely tied to GEF financing from the
       Sustainable Transport and Air Quality initiative, involved in the preparation of
                                            - 67 -
       the transformation process from the bus system to the BRT in the city of Leon.
       The “Anchoring Gender” project will address gender through three specific
       activities: (i) the design of BRT routes and/or other transport programs, (ii) the
       ownership acquisition/transition from the traditional bus system to the industrial
       BRT scheme, and (iii) the operation of the new BRT system. The results and
       lessons learned from the pilot project, whose launch is dependent upon the
       UTTP’s expected approval in August 2009, could be later integrated in other
       participating cities under the UTTP.
      Introduction to Climate Friendly Measures in Transport (P059161) is a
       GEF-financed project, approved in 2002 and completed in March 2009, that
       assisted the Government of Mexico in developing policies and measures for
       stimulating a long-term modal shift toward climate-friendly, more efficient and
       less polluting, less carbon intensive transport in the Mexico City Metropolitan
       Area (MCMA). The operation also supported aspects of the Third Air Quality
       Management Plan (AQM-III 2002-2010).
      Mexico City--Insurgentes Bus Expansion Program (P082656), a Carbon Finance
       operation approved in late 2005 and to be completed by mid-2016, aims to reduce
       local airborne pollutants and GHG emissions from the transport sector in the
       Metropolitan Area of Mexico City through the development of the first surface
       mass transport corridor in Mexico City (Insurgentes Avenue) and associated
       traffic management measures.
      Mexico: Low Carbon Bus Corridor Project (P106305), a carbon finance operation
       approved in May 2009, to be implemented by the end of 2012, will contribute to
       the transformation of the transport sector through improvements in the long-term
       sustainability, efficiency and quality of urban transport in Mexico City. The
       improvements sought (expansion of the bus corridor program, the maximization
       of modal shift, and the use low carbon bus technologies) will result in major
       reductions in GHG emissions and local criteria pollutants.


Renewable Energy
      Guidelines (Environmental and Social) for Scaling-up Wind Energy Development
       (P109850) is expected to be completed by December 2009. The study reviews
       and documents the lessons learned in wind power project implemented by the
       Bank in Mexico and a number of other countries, providing guidelines and
       recommendations for future projects on the management of environmental and
       social aspects.
      Through the above-mentioned Mexico Low-Carbon Study (MEDEC) (P108304),
       the World Bank assisted the Mexican Government in assessing the country’s
       potential for low carbon growth and the macroeconomic and fiscal implications of
       a low carbon development plan. Among other options, the study highlights
       Mexico’s potential for reducing carbon emissions from power generation,
       providing estimates of the respective net costs, emissions reductions, and upfront
       investment that would be needed.

                                         - 68 -
        The Energy Sector Memorandum of Understanding with SENER (P114892)
         described above will assist SENER and the Government of Mexico in further
         strengthening the country’s capacity to promote the use of RE sources in power
         generation.
        The Hybrid Solar Thermal (P066426) project (GEF funded) aims to demonstrate
         and encourage replication of the Integrated Solar Combined Cycle Systems
         (ISCCS) power generation technology in Mexico and elsewhere, thereby
         contributing to the reduction of global GHG emissions. The project was declared
         effective in 2008 and the bidding documents are near finalization.
        The Integrated Energy Services (P095038) project supports the use of renewable
         energy in rural areas for the provision of electricity. The project was declared
         effective in July 2009.
        The Large-Scale Renewable Energy Development GEF Project (P077717)40 is
         being financed through GEF funds, and aims to assist Mexico in developing
         initial experience in commercially-based grid-connected renewable energy
         applications by supporting construction of an approximately 101 MW IPP wind
         farm, while building institutional capacity to value, acquire, and manage such
         resources on a replicable basis. The project was approved on June 29, 2006 and
         declared effective May 18, 2007. The contract with the IPP developer was signed
         by CFE in June 2009. It is expected to close by December 2016.
        Wind Umbrella, or La Venta II (P080104), a carbon finance operation, aims to
         reduce GHG emissions from power generation by 4 million tons CO2e over a
         20-year operation period, promote investment in wind energy, and contribute to
         further development of the international carbon market in Mexico. The Emissions
         Reductions Purchase Agreement (ERPA) was signed on December 12, 2006, and
         the closing date for the project is December 31, 2019.
        The Mexico Biomass Residues Based Co-generation Project (P109794) is a
         Carbon Finance project of the amount of US$7 million, fully funded by the
         Bank’s administered carbon funds. The ERPA is expected to be signed by the
         end of FY2010. The Grupo Modelo Biomass Residues Based Co-generation
         Project consists of the replacement of fossil fuel used for heat and electricity
         generation at the brewery, specifically replacement of heavy fuel oil by biomass.
         The Bank has requested a revision of the methodology to include the use of waste
         bagasse to generate electricity.
        Renewable Energy Management Transition Initiative (REMTI) - The ESMAP
         Trust Fund under the REMTI is supporting a 2 to 3 year program of just-in time
         advice, TA and analytical work to design, disseminate and implement policies
         pertaining to the use of Renewable Energy.




40
  The World Bank. (2006). Mexico - Large-Scale Renewable Energy Development GEF Project. Project
Appraisal Document. May 19.

                                             - 69 -
Energy Efficiency
      The Mexico Lighting and Appliances Efficiency Project (P106424), a CTF project
       expected to go to board on March 13, 2010, will help Mexico in increasing
       efficient use of energy and thus support its efforts to mitigate climate change. The
       project is being financed through IBRD, CTF and CF funds, and is expected to
       include four components: (i) replacement of incandescent light bulbs with CFLs;
       (ii) replacement of inefficient refrigerators and air-conditioners; (iii) measures to
       increase the efficiency of street lighting in municipalities; and (iv) technical
       assistance and institutional strengthening of relevant energy sector agencies to
       operationalize and implement the new Energy Efficiency Law. The project may
       include carbon finance. By implementing targeted energy efficiency measures,
       this project will help the country enhance its energy security, while lowering
       prices through avoided incremental investments.
      The Rural Development Project in Mexico: Energy Efficiency and Renewables:
       The project objective is to promote the adoption of environmentally sustainable
       technologies in agri-businesses. The global environment objective is to contribute
       to the goals of the National Strategy on Climate Change by reducing GHG (CO2)
       emission through the adoption of emission-reduction technologies and the support
       to the implementation of the President’s Special Program for Climate Change
       (PECC). The project has four components aiming at:

           channeling resources toward the installation of solar thermal water heating
            systems to be used in meat packing, food processing, and distilleries;
           supporting agribusinesses that seek to complement their energy
            consumption with photovoltaic solar systems connected to the national
            grid while simultaneously promoting the installation of biodigestors to
            capture biogas generated from animal waste at hog and dairy farms;
           supporting at least 140 agribusinesses with training on the adoption of
            energy efficiency practices; and
           conducting specific energy efficiency measures.


      The MEDEC and Energy Sector Memorandum of Understanding with SENER
       (referred to above) also address energy efficiency activities.




                                          - 70 -
     ANNEX 5: MACROECONOMIC, FISCAL AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
                         CONTEXT


1.      Mexico is in the midst of a deep recession as it faces the impacts of strained
global financial conditions, a sharp contraction in international trade and the
outbreak of the A/H1N1 flu. Based on seasonally adjusted quarterly GDP statistics the
economic recession in Mexico started as early as the third quarter of 2008 and the
downturn has been particularly sharp during the fourth quarter last year and the first
quarter of 2009 (see figure 1a). The outbreak of the flu epidemic in the last week of
April aggravated the economic downturn during the second quarter of the year as a result
of social distancing, the closure of selected businesses (restaurants, bars and theaters)
during a critical 2-week period in significant parts of the country and a longer-lasting
reduction in international travel and tourism.41 Economic activity during the first half of
this year has been down by 9.2 percent compared to the same period of the previous year.

2.      The global financial crisis led to a sharp tightening of financing conditions in
a large number of emerging market economies. Mexico has been no exception. In
response to the global financial crisis and emerging market sell-off, the Mexican
authorities implemented several policy actions to maintain and restore liquidity on
domestic financial markets including foreign exchange interventions, the provision of
loans and loan guarantees to domestic firms by government owned development banks
and the repurchase and reduced issue of longer-term government bonds. Nevertheless,
there was a substantial depreciation of the currency, and the flexible exchange rate
continues to operate as a key instrument and signaling device for the rapid adjustment of
the economy to external shocks.

3.     Prior to the onset of the global economic downturn, Mexico experienced
moderate growth within a framework of enhanced macroeconomic stability. GDP
growth averaged 3.8 percent annually between 2004 and 2007; fiscal policy successfully
focused on a reduction of the public sector deficit and a decline in the public sector
debt-to-GDP ratio, and enhanced price stability contributed to a healthy domestic credit
expansion and growth of domestic demand.

4.      Economic activity suffered a severe contraction throughout the world.
Mexico’s annual economic growth decelerated substantially as the economy entered into
a recession towards the second half of 2008, leading to a more limited GDP growth of
1.3 percent for the year. The current base case scenario for Mexico includes a
contraction of economic activity by 6.8 percent in 2009 which, in view of the dismal
performance of the economy during the first semester requires a substantial recovery of
activity in the second half of the year.




41
  The Government estimates that the contraction of economic activity that can be attributed to the flu
outbreak is about 0.3 to 0.5 percent of GDP this year and is concentrated in the 2nd quarter of the year
(Presentation Dr. Carstens to the Senate August 11, 2009)

                                                - 71 -
                                                                                       Figure 1 a-f: Real Economy Indicators

a) The Mexican economy faces the worst recession since the                                                                                                 b)... the result of a sharp aggregate demand contraction
Tequila crisis…
                                                              GDP Growth                                                                                                              Demand and Supply Components (yoy%)
  10%                                                                                                                                                        10%
                                                                                                                                                              6%

  2%                                                                                                                                                          2%
                                                                                                                                                             -2%

  -6%                                                                                                                                                        -6%
                                                                                                                                                            -10%
                                                                                                                                                                     06:IV      07:I       07:II 07:III 07:IV           08:I   08:II      08:III 08:IV      09:I
                07:I        07:II 07:III 07:IV                         08:I        08:II 08:III 08:IV                         09:I       09:II              -14%
 -14%
                                                                                                                                                            -18%
                                                                                                                                                            -22%
 -22%
                                        y oy %            qoq% annualized                                                                                   -26%            Consumption              Inv estment       Ex ports         Imports
                                                                                                                                                            -30%
 -30%

c) Fall in exports, due to a weaker external demand, has been                                                                                              d) Manufacturing industry is closely correlated to a rapidly
accompanied by a strong reduction in imports                                                                                                               weakening US industry….
                                                                       Exports                                                                                                                   Industrial Production Index
   28
                                                                                                                                                            125

   25                                                                                                                                                       120

   22                                                                                                                                                       115

                                                                                                                                                            110
   19
                                                                                                                                                            105
   16
                                                                                                                                                            100
   13                                                                                                                                                                                    US Industrial Pro d. 2002=100
                                                                                                                                                            95
                                        To tal                                         M anufacturing                                                                                    M exico M anufact. P ro d. 2003=100
   10
                                                                                                                                                            90
          Jul-05



                               Mar-06




                                                                              Jul-07



                                                                                                     Mar-08




                                                                                                                                                  Jul-09
                                                     Nov-06




                                                                                                                            Nov-08




                                                                                                                                 z


e) …leading to job losses and increasing unemployment.                                                                                                     f) Under this scenario, economic perspectives are sharply
                                                                                                                                                           adjusted downward
                                                 Unemployment Rate (%)                                                                                                                    Growth Forecast (%) : GDP 2009
 6.5
                                                                                                                                                            4%
 6.0
 5.5                                                                                                                                                        2%
 5.0
                                                                                                                                                            0%
 4.5
                                                                                                                                                                             Mar-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mar-09
                                                                                                                                                                   Jan-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jul-08

                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sep-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jan-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jul-09
                                                                                                                                                                                        May-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nov-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   May-09




 4.0                                                                                                                                                        -2%
 3.5
                                                                                                                                                            -4%
 3.0
 2.5                                                                                                                                                        -6%
                                                                                                                                                                                          M ex                        USA
                                                                                                          Jul-08



                                                                                                                                Mar-09

                                                                                                                                         Jul-09
                                        Jul-06



                                                              Mar-07

                                                                        Jul-07



                                                                                                Mar-08
       Jul-05



                            Mar-06




                                                                                       Nov-07




                                                                                                                   Nov-08
                   Nov-05




                                                 Nov-06




                                                                                                                                                            -8%




                                                                                                                                     - 72 -
5.      The Mexican government implemented counter-cyclical fiscal stimulus
policies to mitigate the impact of the external demand shock on the domestic
economy. The fiscal stimulus policies adopted include additional public investment in
infrastructure incorporated in the 2009 budget as well as employment programs, a
reduction and freeze of public sector administrated prices in the energy sector and an
expansion of development banks’ credit programs. The 2009 budget implies a fiscal
stimulus at about 1.5 percent of GDP42 and is financed, in part, by increased public sector
borrowing.

6.       The contraction of economic activity is leading to a sharp decline in tax
revenue making it difficult to sustain planned public expenditure levels. During the
first seven months of this year non-oil tax revenue dropped by 13.6 percent in real terms
while Value Added Tax revenue plummeted by 20 percent. The government plans to
compensate lower oil and non-oil budget revenue this year, currently estimated at MXN
477.5 billion (US$35 billion, 4 percent of GDP) with non-recurrent resources from a
successful oil hedge, an extraordinary transfer of profits from the central bank and
drawing resources from the government’s revenue stabilization funds. In addition, lower
federal government revenue automatically translates in less revenue shared with states
and municipalities. Finally, the government announced public expenditure cuts to a total
amount of MXN 85 billion (US$6.5 billion, 0.7 percent of GDP) last May and August in
order to keep the 2009 budget balance targets on track.

7.     Extraordinary revenue sources used to compensate the shortfall in fiscal
revenue this year will not be available in 2010 prompting additional fiscal
adjustment in next year’s budget. The government’s budget projections for 2010 show
a revenue shortfall of MXN 374 billion (US$29 billion, 3.0 percent of GDP) compared to
the expected revenue in the 2009 budget. The government proposes to close this gap by a
combination of expenditure reductions, revenue enhancing measures and allow for a
higher deficit.43 The Mexican fiscal responsibility law requires a balanced budget44 and
allows for a deficit only under “exceptional circumstances” and conditioned by the
adoption of a medium term fiscal framework to return to a balanced budget. The sharp
decline in public sector revenue due to the current cyclical downturn is further aggravated
by a rapidly falling volume of oil production leading to a more structural challenge to


42
   The State of Public Finances: A Cross-Country Fiscal Monitor, IMF July 30, 2009. Recently announced
spending cuts, to an amount of 0.7 percent of GDP, in response to revenue pressures and focused on
personnel and administrative costs will slightly modify the size of the fiscal stimulus.
43
   The government submitted its budget proposal for 2010 to Congress on September 8, 2009 in which it
proposes to cover the permanent component of the revenue shortfall, estimated at 1.7 percent of GDP, by
expenditure cuts and revenue enhancing measures, leaving a transitory component of the shortfall to be
financed by additional deficit spending, 0.5 percent of GDP, and non-recurrent extraordinary revenue,
0.8 percent of GDP.
44
   A modification to the law adopted by Congress in 2009 includes all investments by the public sector oil
company in the budget but excludes these investments from the budget balance requirement. Those
investments are currently estimated to amount to 2.1 percent of GDP for 2009 and 2.0 percent in 2010. As
a result the budget deficit for 2009 is estimated at 2.1 percent of GDP, while for 2010 the government
proposes a budget deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP (i.e. 2.0 percent oil sector investment and an additional
0.5 percent temporary deficit spending).

                                                 - 73 -
replace diminishing oil revenue by more permanent sources of revenue. The government
is proposing a mix of tax policy measures and adjustment in public sector administrated
prices (mainly in the energy sector) and a complicated political debate is underway to
decide on the mix of revenue and expenditure measures. Even though an incipient
economic recovery could be jeopardized by premature fiscal consolidation, there is a
need to signal a clear medium term adjustment in order to assure markets of fiscal
sustainability. In this regard, rating agencies have already subjected maintaining the
country’s current sovereign credit rating to a satisfactory resolve on revenue enhancing
measures.

8.      Monetary policy started to ease since January 2009 in order to support other
efforts to reduce the downturn in economic activity. Even though consumer price
inflation continues at a level, 5.1 percent last August, that is substantially above the
authorities medium-term target of 3 percent the severity of the economic downturn has
led the authorities to reduce its target for the overnight interbank interest rate by an
accumulated 375 basis points between January and July this year, from 8.25 to
4.50 percent. The central bank currently projects to reach its medium-term inflation
target towards the end of 2010 and forecasts an inflation of 4.0-4.5 percent by the end of
2009. Adjustments in public sector administered prices may provide an additional
challenge to the monetary authorities to assure that the impact of these price hikes on
headline inflation remains a one-off event.

9.      The authorities have taken several actions to maintain orderly conditions on
foreign exchange and domestic financial markets in view of the unprecedented
global financial shocks. The central bank intervened in foreign exchange markets
providing foreign currency liquidity to the private sector. Sales of international reserves
through different intervention mechanisms summed to US$30 billion between October
2008 and August 2009. Though Mexico maintains a level of international reserves
relative to short term debt and imports that is below the level observed in several other
emerging market economies and currency interventions reduced reserves to
US$76 billion by August 2009 compared to US$85 billion in September 2008, indicators
of foreign reserve adequacy continue well above conventional thresholds of 100 percent
relative to short-term external debt or three to six months of imports. Furthermore,
bilateral and multilateral support, through a US$30 billion currency swap arrangement
with the US Federal Reserve (extended until February, 2010) and a US$47 billion
Flexible Credit Line (FCL) with the IMF, provide for additional precautionary sources of
external funds. Announcement of the one-year FCL last April greatly reduced volatility
of the peso.

10.     The Mexican government, through its development banks, also stepped in to
facilitate refinancing of corporate debt and to support securitized private housing
finance on the private domestic bond market. Issuance of private domestic securities
(financial and non-financial) was severely disrupted. No medium-term bond issues were
made during October and November last year and the issuance of short-term paper also




                                          - 74 -
declined significantly (see figure). A bankruptcy filing of a major AAA45 rated company
following large losses on currency related derivatives (see box 1) impaired the
non-financial corporate commercial paper market. To maintain the flow of credit and
allow corporations to refinance, NAFIN and Bancomext designed an emergency program
through which they guaranteed up to 50 percent of domestic corporate paper issuances.
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, the government’s private housing finance development
bank, stepped in to avoid a collapse of the nascent Residential Mortgage Backed Security
(RMBS) market and support the flow of credit to mortgage originating non-bank credit
institutions (Sofoles and Sofomes). After a default by two mortgage Sofoles on the
commercial paper, the SHF designed a program to guarantee up to 65 percent of bonds
issued by mortgage Sofoles enabling them to refinance debt maturing in 2009 and 2010.

Box 1 Derivates-related exposures in the corporate sector
The global financial crisis revealed substantial off-balance sheet foreign exchange exposure by several
Mexican corporations through complex derivate structures. Low currency volatility and nominal
appreciation before August 2008 led companies to bet against the depreciation of the peso by selling
foreign exchange options in the offshore market. These contracts allow corporates to sell US dollars at a
favorable rate when the exchange rate rises above a “knock-out” price (i.e. the domestic currency
appreciates), but force them to sell dollars at an unfavorable rate if the exchange rate falls below a “knock-
in” price (the domestic currency depreciates), offering financing and currency trades at favorable rates, but
with the drawback of having to deliver dollars at a loss if the domestic currency depreciates past a certain
threshold.
The sharp currency depreciation observed after September 2008 resulted to corporate losses on derivates
estimated at about US$5.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008. The discovery of these derivates as well as
the efforts of some large corporations to close their unhedged foreign currency positions fuelled the
demand for dollars, increased exchange rate volatility and led to some unexpected commercial paper
defaults.
The complexity of these deals and the fact that they were done privately highlights the lack of transparency
in these markets, as many of these companies did not disclose any information on their derivative position.
Source: Jara, Moreno and Tovar (2009) The global crisis and Latin America: Financial impact and policy
responses, BIS Quarterly Review, June, pp 53-68.


11.    Growth of credit to the non-financial private sector has started to decelerate
and may soon turn negative. Despite a brief period of double digit growth over the past
few years, the level of credit to the private sector in Mexico remains, at about 30 percent
of GDP, low compared to other countries in the region or at comparable levels of
economic development. Growth of credit slowed down significantly over the past few
months once one adjusts credit growth, in constant domestic currency terms, for the
depreciation of the exchange rate. About a quarter of the amount of credit outstanding to
the private sector is expressed in foreign currency and a depreciation of the peso
increases the peso equivalence of the amount outstanding without any additional credit
flow taking place. As can be observed from figure 3, the growth of credit in real,
domestic currency terms dropped sharply over the past two quarters to a slight
contraction by the first quarter of 2009 of 0.2 percent.


45
     On a local scale

                                                   - 75 -
                                                                                                                                  Figure 2 a-f: Financial Indicators

a) Increased risk pricing has been reflected in significantly                                                                                                                     b)...and in a sharp depreciation and volatile exchange rate
higher sovereign risk spreads…
                                                            Sovereign Risk Spreads                                                                                                                                                                            Exchange Rate
                                            (EMBI Global basis points ov er US Treasury )                                                                                             15.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (peso /dollar)

 900                                                                                                                                                                                  14.5

 750                                                                                                                                                                                  13.5

 600                                                                                                                                                                                  12.5

 450                                                                                                                                                                                  11.5

                                                                                                                                                                                      10.5
 300
                                                       Mex ico                                           LAC
                                                                                                                                                                                      9.5
 150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27-Oct



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26-Dec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24-Jul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26-Mar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25-Apr
                                                                                                                                                                                                  28-Aug

                                                                                                                                                                                                                27-Sep




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25-Jan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24-Feb




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24-Jun



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23-Aug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26-Nov




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25-May
                              23-Oct


                                                  18-D ec




                                                                                                                                             2-Jul
                                                                                                                                                       30-Jul
                                                                                          12-M ar
                                                                                                        9-Apr
                                                              15-Jan




                                                                                                                                  4-Jun
                                                                              12-Feb




                                                                                                                                                                   27-Aug
       28-Aug

                   25-Sep




                                                                                                                      7-M ay
                                        20-N ov




c) The share of foreign holdings of government bonds declined                                                                                                                     d)...the financial asset sell-off is reflected in a sharp
abruptly…                                                                                                                                                                         increase in the yield on long-term government bonds.
                                       Foreign holdings of government bonds                                                                                                                                                                   Government bond yields (%)
                                       as % of total government bonds outstanding                                                                                                            12
   16%                                                                                                                                                                                       11

   14%                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
   12%
                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
   10%                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cetes 28d
       8%                                                                                                                                                                                        6                                            B ond 3Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5                                            B ond 10Y
       6%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B ond 20Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                Jul-06




                                             Mar-07

                                                            Jul-07




                                                                                                    Mar-08

                                                                                                                      Jul-08




                                                                                                                                                     Mar-09

                                                                                                                                                                   Jul-09
                              Nov-06




                                                                               Nov-07




                                                                                                                                    Nov-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jan-08

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M ar-08



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jul-08

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sep-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jan-09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M ar-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jul-09
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M ay-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N ov-08




e) Domestic finance cost for the Mexican companies                                                                                                                                f)…as private domestic issuance of medium- term securities                                                                              M ay-09
increased…                                                                                                                                                                        was disrupted.

                                                      Spread in national currency                                                                                                                                                             Corporate Securities Issuance
                                  (commercial paper to ov ernight rate in basis points)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Medium Term
   350                                                                                                                                                                                                60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Short Term
   300
                                                                                                                                                                                                      45
                                                                                                                                                                                      billion pesos




   250
   200
                                                                                                                                                                                                      30
   150
   100
                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
       50
         0                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                             Dec-08
                                   Apr-08


                                                       Jul-08
                                                                     Aug-08
                                                                                 Sep-08
             Jan-08
                         Feb-08




                                                                                                                         Feb-09
                                                                                                                                    Mar-09


                                                                                                                                                          Jun-09
                                                                                                                                                                    Aug-09
                                             May-08




                                                                                              Nov-08




                                                                                                                                              May-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dec-07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dec-08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sep-07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sep-08
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jun-07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar-08

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jun-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mar-09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jun-09




                                                                                                                                                                             - 76 -
12.     The most affected sector for this slowdown trend in credit is the household
sector. After a six-year period of high, double digit growth of consumer credit, led by
the credit card business, a significantly increasing non-performing consumer credit loan
portfolio led financial intermediaries to cut back on the expansion of consumer credit
already before the impact of the global financial crisis was felt in Mexico. Consumer
credit started to present a negative growth rate since the last quarter of 2008 and data at
March 2009 showed a sharp contraction of 12.5 percent (Figure 3). The more remarkable
development over the past few months in the slowdown of growth and eventual
contraction of credit is observed in the performance of credit to non-financial private
sector firms and in housing finance, accounting for some 59 and 27 percent of total credit
to the non-financial private sector. Housing loans presented a moderate expansion of
1.7 percent at the first quarter of 2009. As expected, the credit crunch is particularly
noted in the externally originated and foreign currency denominated segment of credit to
private sector firms that observed an annual contraction by 8.4 percent in the first quarter
this year (after adjusting for the depreciation of the peso). The positive trend persisting in
the internal finance to companies barely compensates the dramatic drop of external credit
flows; total financing to Mexican firms increased just 3 percent in the first quarter of
2009.

            Figure 3 Credit to the non-financial private sector, 2006-2009

           Growth of total financing                         Adjusted growth of financing by user
  18%                                                45%

                                                                                        Companies
  15%
                                                     35%                                Consumption
                                                                                        Housing
  12%
                                                     25%

   9%
                                                     15%

   6%

                                                      5%
                 Non adjusted
   3%
                 Adjusted
                                                     - 5%
   0%

                                                     - 15%




13.     The current economic recession is characterized by a simultaneous sharp
contraction in private consumption, investment and exports. While the latter is due
to a more generalized drop in external demand and international trade, the rapid
tightening in domestic demand can be attributed to increased uncertainty regarding global
and domestic economic prospects, increased unemployment, reduced availability of
credit, and a significant currency depreciation. First quarter GDP data show a
particularly fast and sharp response by households and businesses to the rapidly
deteriorated financial and economic situation as private consumption contracted by
9 percent and investment by 7.6 percent contributing significantly to the overall
contraction of GDP. Weak private consumption and investment activity is also reflected
in a rapid decline of imports, down by 31 percent in nominal dollar terms during the first
seven months of the year. Exports over the same period were down by 30.9 percent. It

                                            - 77 -
should be noted that there is a close link between export and import declines, as more
than 70 percent of imports are intermediate goods, many of which are used as inputs for
export production.

14.     With additional data becoming available, there seems to be an emerging
consensus on the depth of the global economic downturn, even though there remains
considerable uncertainty with regards to the strength of the current rebound.
Assumptions regarding the external environment have a major impact on the projection
of Mexico’s main macroeconomic variables over the next two years. A base case
scenario (Table 1) follows the Bank’s Unified Survey Assumptions of September 2009
for global economic activity.46 The impact of such an external scenario on the Mexican
economy is a significant recession in 2009 and a modest rebound by 2010 and 2011. The
sharp reduction in the external demand in the base case scenario in 2009 is reflected in a
significant contraction in the dollar value of exports, with the value of oil exports mainly
declining as a result of lower oil prices whereas non-oil exports largely decline due to
lower volumes of production and trade. The latter in combination with tighter credit
conditions (both external and domestic) is projected to lead to a simultaneous sharp
contraction of private consumption and investment. Countercyclical government
expenditures cannot avoid a sharp contraction of aggregate demand and economic
activity in 2009. A gradual recovery of external demand by 2010 should allow, on the
contrary, for an increase of manufactured exports, private consumption and investment
demand providing for a modest expansion of overall economic activity. Risks to this
scenario are largely tilted towards the downside and a second, low case scenario provides
for the impact on Mexican macroeconomic indicators in case of a sharper reaction in
terms of the domestic demand contraction in the short run and a more protracted
recession in its largest trading partner and the global economy, reflected in a less
vigorous rebound in the volume of exports and a lower international oil price in 2010 and
2011.




46
   World output is projected to fall by 2.5 percent in 2009 and experiencing a gradual recovery in 2010
when growth is picking up to 2.3 percent. Similarly output in the United States is projected to contract by
2.5 percent in 2009 before rebounding by 2.3 percent in 2010.

                                                  - 78 -
Table 1. Macroeconomic scenarios
                                                              Baseline                      Low Case
Indicator                                    2008      2009        2010    2011      2009        2010     2011
Real GDP (%)                                 1.4%     -6.8%        3.0%    3.5%     -8.5%        2.0%     2.5%
Consumption (%).                             1.4%     -6.3%        3.2%    3.4%     -8.9%        1.6%     2.5%
Investment (%)                               5.3%    -15.9%        5.5%    5.0%    -16.5%        4.0%     4.0%
External Accounts
Merchandise Exports Current (US$ billion)    291.8    216.2       234.4    270.7    210.3        223.3    257.2
   Oil Exports (US$ billion)                  50.6     27.9        31.3     32.7     26.6         24.3     24.3
   Non Oil Exports (US$ billion)             241.2    188.3       203.1    238.0    183.7        199.1    232.9
Merchandise Imports Current (US$ billion)    308.6    229.4       251.7    291.3    217.1        234.4    272.3
Remittances (US$ billion)                     25.1     22.4        24.9     25.9     21.4         23.8     24.8
Current Account Balance (US$ billion)        -15.8    -14.0       -17.2    -20.3     -9.2        -12.5    -17.0
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)          -1.5%    -1.6%       -1.8%    -1.9%    -1.1%        -1.4%    -1.7%
FDI (US$ billion)                            22.48    16.86       18.50    21.00    13.49        15.50    18.00
Gross Reserves (US$ billion)                 85.4     81.0        82.0     82.7     81.0         79.2     80.5
External Debt (% of GDP)                    16.5%    22.6%       22.3%    22.7%    23.5%        23.5%    24.1%
Public Sector
Public Expenditure (%)                       4.2%     1.5%        0.0%     4.3%     1.5%        -2.9%     3.4%
PSBR Balance (% GDP)                        -2.1%    -3.0%       -3.4%    -3.1%    -3.1%        -3.3%    -3.2%
Public Sector Debt (% GDP)                  35.8%    39.9%       40.5%    40.8%    40.5%        41.0%    41.6%
Prices
Inflation (e.o.p.) (%)                       6.5%     4.4%        4.0%     3.3%     5.0%         4.7%     3.5%
Nominal Exchange Rate (pesos/dll)            11.1     13.5        13.0     13.0     13.8         13.5     13.5
Oil Price (US$ per barrel)                   86.3     52.0        58.9     61.5     52.0         48.0     48.0



15.     In either scenario concerns are focused on the rising fiscal pressures in view
of the rapidly deteriorating outlook for public sector revenue and the increasing
public debt-to-GDP ratios. Fiscal discipline and strong fiscal policy frameworks,
including the establishment of stabilization funds and the acquisition of oil price hedges,
enabled a countercyclical policy response for 2009. The public debt-to-GDP ratio posted
an important increase end-2008 that can be attributed in part to the issue of a recognition
bond to public sector workers that opted for the individual savings account in the public
sector pension reform. The sharp economic contraction, the depreciation of the currency
and a higher fiscal deficit contribute further to an increase of the public debt-to-GDP ratio
in 2009. Even though there has been some room for an increase of public debt and the
public debt-to-GDP ratio, the rapid increase and level to be attained by the latter by 2010
and 2011 suggests limits to possibilities of fiscal stimulus. In this regard, policymakers
face a difficult trade-off between early fiscal consolidation that may aggravate the
contraction of the domestic economy and a market reaction (as already expressed by
credit rating agencies) that demand a clear and credible medium-term fiscal strategy of
revenue-enhancing measures or sustainable spending cuts to compensate for the lower
public sector revenue.

16.     Debates on the size of the fiscal stimulus and the moment to change toward
fiscal consolidation are taking place in many countries and Mexico is no exception.
The size of the fiscal buffers going into the recession, projections on the depth and
duration of the economic contraction and possible market reactions with respect to
increased fiscal deficits and higher levels of public debt are some of the major elements
that have to be taken into account in policy decisions on the size and length of fiscal
stimulus. Mexico adequately used its fiscal space –created by consistent fiscal policies
and falling debt-to-GDP ratios, the accumulation of resources in revenue stabilization
                                                     - 79 -
funds and the oil price hedge– to enact a substantial fiscal stimulus in 2009 and is
currently in the midst of discussing the economic package for 2010.

17.     Public debt remains within manageable proportions despite a significant
increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio until 2011. Debt sustainability analysis based on
average levels of economic growth, the primary balance and the real interest rate on
public debt observed over the decade previous to the current economic crisis and applied
to the debt-to-GDP ratios observed in the base and low case scenario by 2011, shows a
return to a downward path of the debt-to-GDP as of 2012 (figure 4). Bound tests47 with
respect to the key growth and primary balance variables show that only in the case of a
combined growth and primary balance shock the debt-to-GDP ratio will continue on an
upward path and additional corrective policy actions will be needed.



           Figure 4: Mexico Fiscal Sustainability Analysis: Public Sector Debt to GDP ratio,
                                              2005-2016

               Shock in Growth Rate                     Shock in Primary Balance                       Combined shock in
     44%                                          44%                                             Growth Rate & Primary Balance
                                                                                            44%
     42%                                          42%
                                                                                            42%
     40%                                          40%
                                                                                            40%
     38%                                          38%
                                                                                            38%
     36%
                                                  36%
                                                                                            36%
                            B aseline                                 B aseline                                     B aseline
     34%
                            B aseline w. sho ck   34%                                       34%
                                                                      B aseline w. sho ck                           B aseline w. sho ck
     32%                    Lo w case
                                                                      Lo w case                                     Lo w case
                            Lo w case w. sho ck   32%                                       32%
                                                                      Lo w case w. sho ck                           Lo w case w. sho ck
     30%
                                                  30%                                       30%




18.      The external current account deficit is not a cause of concern. The rapid
deterioration of the external financing and economic conditions to the Mexican economy
has been rapidly reflected in the country’s exchange rate which led to a rapid adjustment
of consumption and investment plans by Mexican households and businesses. This in
turn has led to a sharp contraction of imports, in line with or even more pronounced to the
fall in exports. The low case scenario provides for a slightly sharper functioning of this
adjustment mechanism resulting in an even more modest current account deficit.




47
     Shocks are permanent one-half standard deviation shocks.

                                                          - 80 -
         ANNEX 6: PUBLIC CONSULTATIONS AND PARTICIPATION

1.      The design of the Framework for Green Growth DPL has benefitted from a
long-standing consultation process carried out by the Government in the context of the
National Development Plan (PND) as well as the Special Program for Climate Change
(PECC). Additionally, Bank engagement in infrastructure and climate change related
activities in Mexico regularly include consultations and participation of key stakeholders.

2.     The Mexican Government’s main instrument to move forward the ENACC is the
PECC, which is part of the National Development Plan, and therefore produced under the
standards of the General Planning Law which mandates a participatory process.

3.     The public consultation of the PECC was carried out from March 24 to June 18,
2009. Comments/suggestions from ninety seven persons/institutions were recorded in the
Environmental Ministry’s web page (www.semarnat.gob.mx). Participants included:
25 Schools, Universities, and Research Centers; 23 Environmental and Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs), 23 Consultants and Firms, 12 National and Sub-national
Government Officials, and 2 Rural Producers Organizations.

4.     Along with the creation of the Inter-Secretarial Commission on Climate Change
(Comisión Inter-secretarial de Cambio Climático – CICC), the Government of Mexico
invited the scientific community and civil society to form a Consultative Council to
ensure that strategies and sector programs are developed with due consultation with
potentially affected parties.

5.      Preparation of the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) Investment Plan (IP) was
carried out jointly by the Government of Mexico, the IBRD, the IDB, and the IFC and
also included consultations with relevant UN agencies as well as representation from
various countries engaged in Climate Change related activities in Mexico. This
multi-year business plan identifies programs to be co-financed by the CTF jointly with
the IBRD, IDB and IFC in the Urban Transport and Energy Sectors.

6.       A Technical Assistance MOU on Environmental Sustainability and Climate
Change is the framework for the Bank’s support to the Climate Change Program in
Mexico. The monitoring and evaluation of implementation, support to sub-national
initiatives, the public consultation design and the study on Social Impacts of CC are some
of the relevant activities under the MOU.

7.      Currently, the Bank is preparing a stand-alone Mexico Social Impacts of Climate
Change (SICC) Report based on all the Mexico-specific findings accumulated during the
preparation of the climate change regional study, based on the combination of desk
research and fieldwork that was carried out as part of the SICC report preparation.
Preparation of this study has incorporated consultations with a series of communities, as
well as the National Ecology Institute (INE); SEMARNAT; and Universities.




                                          - 81 -
8.      The Bank has prepared a Social and Environmental Framework (MASTU) for the
Urban Transport Program48, which falls under the umbrella and objectives of the Green
Growth DPL. The MASTU includes the public consultation of the framework itself, plus
three types of activities to: (a) Inform the public on proposed investments; (b) Consult
with relevant actors in each of the sites about potential impacts and mitigation options;
and (c) Disseminate the relevant documentation on the project and safeguards
compliance.

9.      The Bank is also assisting the State of Michoacán in the design and
implementation of a participatory planning process, based on a Strategic Environmental
Assessment multisectoral type of approach, to define and implement an Environmental
Sustainability and Climate Change Program. There are two key mechanisms established:
i) a Technical Group, which will contribute to build the scientific capabilities in local
academia and government institutions to produce and update inventories and CC
scenarios for the State of Michoacán, and ii) a Consultation Mechanism, which operates
as a liaison to guarantee the flow of information and to facilitate regional and sectoral
consultations (a first public meeting with representatives from private sector, academia,
producer’s organizations and NGOs has already been held).




48
     Includes a US$200 M IBRD Loan and a US$200 M Clean Technology Fund (CTF) concessional Loan.

                                               - 82 -
     ANNEX 7: PRIORITIES AND OBJECTIVES OF THE GREEN GROWTH DPL AND
     MEXICO’S INVESTMENT PLAN FOR THE CLEAN TECHNOLOGY FUND (CTF)


1.     In July 2008, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors, after consultations with the
other multilateral development banks, developed and developing countries, and other
development partners, approved the creation of two strategic Climate Investment Funds (CIF):
the Clean Technology Fund (CTF) and the Strategic Climate Fund (SCF). The CTF seeks to
promote scaled-up financing for demonstration, deployment and transfer of low carbon programs
and projects with a significant potential for long-term Green House Gas (GHGs) emission
savings. The CTF promotes the realization of environmental and social co-benefits thus
demonstrating the potential of low-carbon technologies to contribute to sustainable development
and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.49

2.      During the design of the CTF, it was agreed that the first step in country programming is
to develop an Investment Plan (IP) for the use of CTF resources in major sectors of the economy
through a joint multilateral bank program. The IP is critical to allowing potential activities and
investments financed by the CTF so as to respond to each country’s existing strategies and plans,
and to account for on-going operations in key sectors or sub-sectors in a country.

3.     Hence, the CTF Investment Plan for Mexico is a “business plan” owned by the
Government of Mexico and agreed upon with the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) to provide support for the low carbon objectives contained in
Mexico’s 2007-2012 National Development Plan, its Special Program for Climate Change
(PECC), and the overall National Climate Change Strategy (ENACC).50 The IP, adopted in
January 2009, identifies the programs that are proposed to be co-financed by the CTF jointly
with the IBRD, IDB and IFC and is considered a flexible document adaptable to changing
circumstances.

4.     The programs proposed for CTF support fall in three sub-sectors, namely Urban
Transport, Renewable Energy, and Energy Efficiency. These are the result of several months of
discussions between the Government of Mexico and the IBRD, IDB and IFC, and build on years
of development experience and policy dialogue between these institutions and the government of
Mexico. The sector programs proposed to be financed through the CTF are being identified by a
number of studies already completed or underway; however, not all the measures identified by
these various studies are presented as programs to the CTF. The choice of programs reflects a
combination of the government’s priorities and sector implementation readiness, the
development banks’ capacity and focus, and priorities established by the CTF.



49
   The specific programs that the Government has proposed for CTF support do not involve new technology per se.
They involve technology that is readily available to Mexico today, but face institutional, regulatory, or cost barriers
that must be overcome for large scale deployment. Support from the CTF would help overcome these barriers.
50
   Mexico’s National Climate Change Strategy (Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climatico, or ENACC) identifies
end use energy efficiency, power generation, and transport among the sectors with the largest emissions reductions
potential.

                                                        - 83 -
5.       Thus, there are clear complementarities between the objectives of the CTF IP and the
Green Growth DPL. The prior actions under the Green Growth DPL establish the policy
framework that enables the promotion of cost-effective reductions in the growth of GHG
emissions the CTF seeks to achieve. Also similarly to Mexico’s IP for the CTF, the DPL is
closely aligned with the ENACC and the PECC, specifically, capturing the Regulatory and
Institutional, Financial and Monitoring elements required for a number of high impact
interventions in the Urban Transport, Energy Efficiency, and Renewable Energy sub-sectors.


Urban Transport and Energy Programs Proposed for CTF support

Urban Transport

6.      The proposed CTF co-financed program aims for a significant reduction in emissions
from the urban transport sector in the cities that are ready to engage in the adoption of
transformational measures and are among the largest GHG emitters in the country (Guadalajara,
Monterrey, Puebla, Leon, Mexico City Metropolitan Area), as well as others (Chihuahua,
Mexicali). The program co-financed by the CTF is expected to result in GHG emissions savings
of about 2 million tons of CO2 per year.

7.      The priority areas in Urban Transport that have been proposed for CTF support have been
selected on the basis of their role in promoting a modal shift in urban areas. CTF support will
focus on consolidation and acceleration of BRT programs in the target cities, physical integration
and optimization of public transport systems, seeking an optimization of modal shift toward
low-carbon modes of transport, introduction of a scrapping program to eliminate the rolling stock
displaced by the BRT, introduction of hybrid articulated buses, and adoption of a program to
reduce congestion through travel management measures geared to maximize modal shift. The
specific investments proposed to be co-financed by the CTF include:

       (i)     Modal shift to low carbon alternatives - support to development or accelerated
               expansion of BRT systems in a number of cities as part of an integral strategy
               linked to urban development options and air quality and transport safety goals.
               This will also include measures to ease congestion, scrap inefficient vehicles, link
               to other low carbon or non-motorized transport options, urban zoning tied to
               improvements in access to public space and others that promote modal shift. The
               project will finance the infrastructure and support scrapping and modal shift
               measures, and will benefit from the World Bank’s experience in Mexico City,
               Bogota, and Lima, facilitating its expansion and replication.
       (ii)    Promotion of low carbon bus technologies, particularly hybrid diesel electric and
               CNG electric vehicles, expected to deliver substantial reductions in GHG
               emissions, while lowering emission of local criteria pollutants. The project will
               support part of the incremental cost in comparison to the standard technology
               buses thus making it possible to initiate operation at a commercial scale and
               providing an experience of global value while reducing its cost; and
       (iii)   Capacity Building – i.e. helping to expand local capacities to manage project
               activities, in consonance with the needs to cope with a growing transport demand

                                              - 84 -
               in the MCMA. The component will focus on business, financial, operational,
               administrative, procurement, environmental, infrastructure, safeguards,
               regulatory, institutional capacity building for key agencies involved in transport,
               as well as provide support for the development of a rational framework to address
               overarching urban transport issues in the metropolitan areas in order to maximize
               cost-effectiveness for the institutional and financial resources allocated to the
               sector.

8.     Particularly by supporting the Institutional Framework and capacity for mainstreaming
climate change considerations in the Urban Transport sector, the intervention focus areas listed
above closely mirror those supported through the Green Growth DPL (specifically, the ones
under Policy Areas 1 and 2) and are all expected to contribute to the efficient allocation of public
space for transport and rank among the most cost-effective in the sector. The adoption of these
measures in target cities also represent major scaling-up of current efforts, and is expected to
stimulate a transformation of the urban transport system of Mexico and the wider region.

9.      In effect, the policy actions supported by the proposed DPL lay the foundation for
implementation of the CTF IP in urban transport. Specifically, without the financing
mechanisms of FONADIN and PROTRAM, the CTF Investment Plan cannot be expected to be
able to cover the financial gap of the additional climate-related investments.

Renewable Energy

10.     In the Renewable Energy (RE) sub-sector, the CTF Investment Plan for Mexico proposes
to finance the Government’s efforts towards implementing a comprehensive national Renewable
Energy program. The IP specifically emphasizing the following activities:

       (i)     Design of policy and regulatory incentives for scaling-up renewable energy
               investments and commercialization of these technologies in the medium-term;
       (ii)    Establishment of a financing facility in NAFIN (Nacional Financiera) to leverage
               and complement the proposed Energy Transition Fund, and support investments
               for accelerating public and private investment in RE;
       (iii)   Provision of financing instruments and capacity-building for developers and local
               financial intermediaries to develop projects and/or programs for scaling-up
               private sector investments in renewable electricity, heat and transport fuels;
       (iv)    Technical and financial assistance to lower the costs of interconnection associated
               with increased installed capacity of RE power within the power system;
       (v)     Support to local RE research centers for demonstration of technologies designed
               to optimize local conditions;

11.    Regarding wind power generation, more specifically, the CTF Investment Plan also
envisages technical cooperation among the IDB, the Bank and Mexico’s policy and regulatory
agencies (notably CRE), as well as with the CFE, to support the design, development and
implementation of appropriate incentives. This assistance would also extend to the existing
research centers and guarantee adequate capacity building activities.

                                               - 85 -
Energy Efficiency

12.    In the Energy Efficiency (EE) sub-sector, the CTF co-financed program will support
SENER in the design and implementation of energy efficiency interventions in accordance with
the Law for the Sustainable Use of Energy. These will include:
       (i)     Development of a large-scale EE transformational program for efficient lighting
               (residential, commercial, street and public lighting) and efficient domestic
               appliances in low income households (refrigerators and air conditioners);
       (ii)    Modernization of the Tortilla Industry by substituting obsolete and energy
               intensive equipment through energy-efficient appliances and introduction of
               efficient lighting and solar water heaters in the production facilities; and
       (iii)   Water pumping EE in water utilities.
13.     Complementary to the CTF IP objectives outlined above, the World Bank’s Mexico
Lighting and Appliances Efficiency Project (P106424), currently under preparation, will finance
upfront investments needed for large-scale purchases of efficient lighting and appliances, in
order to bring down upfront costs to consumers, and thus create a massive and sustained shift in
Mexico’s domestic market.

14.     In order to ensure sustainability of the market transformation, support would be provided
as part of the World Bank’s CTF financing package in the CTF proposed intervention under the
IP to support the development of the various policy tools, inter alia: (i) the normalization of
standards for efficient lighting and appliances, (ii) regulatory measures to prevent imports of
second-hand inefficient domestic appliances, and (iii) the prohibition of manufacturing and
imports of inefficient lighting and appliances once the program is completed. Capacity building,
together with awareness and promotion campaigns on energy efficient new technologies and uses
are also being considered key factors of success. These, in turn, will be addressed through
technical, organizational and financial assistance to strengthen the relevant federal technical
agencies and participating municipalities. Additional support will be provided with respect to
activities that leverage carbon finance – specifically, for the development of programs for
programmatic CDM to pursue carbon credits that would allow scaling up the proposed
interventions.

15.     Additionally, aside from the clear link the CTF IP has with such technical support and
investment operations as the Mexico Lighting and Appliances Efficiency Project, the Investment
Plan is also complementary with the Energy Transition Fund – namely, in terms of financing
energy efficiency interventions. While CTF resources would be applied to reducing the financial
costs of the lines of credit provided by the development banks, the Government is considering
using the Energy Transition Fund to finance (i) the subsidy support of the replacement of
lighting and appliances for low income levels, and (ii) the set up of the guarantee facility within
NAFIN to secure the line of credit of the program.

16.    As with the Green Growth DPL, the CTF IP thus proposes to support the Government of
Mexico both in Developing a Regulatory and Institutional Framework (Policy Areas 1 and 2 of
the DPL, corresponding to activities i and vi above) and in Establishing Financing Mechanisms
(Policy Area 3, corresponding to ii, iii, and iv).

                                              - 86 -
                       ANNEX 8: STATUS OF LENDING PROGRAM


This document aims to provide the Board of Directors with an overall view on the status of the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) discussed in April 2008 in light of the global economic
situation, Mexico’s emerging needs within the Partnership and the Bank’s proposed response.51
A CAS Progress Report is under preparation and is expected to be finalized in FY10.

The Partnership

1.       The Country Partnership Strategy is built on the Mexican authorities’ desire to maintain a
strong financial and knowledge-based relationship with the Bank, and stresses flexibility and
innovation in responding to our Partner’s borrowing needs and development challenges. Five
principles of engagement were agreed: (i) a base level of borrowing of around US$800 million
per year, with higher levels dependent upon IBRD pricing competitiveness and evolving market
conditions; (ii) flexibility in delivering agreed volumes of lending and non-lending activities;
(iii) selectivity in areas of support within the framework of the country’s National Development
Plan (NDP) to ensure value-added; (iv) responsiveness in meeting demands for knowledge with
a range of instruments; and (v) coordination within the World Bank Group, and with other
donors, in support of the NDP.

Operational Support

2.      The Bank has reaffirmed its continuous support to Mexico providing fast response in
delivering assistance as global economic conditions deteriorated and began to negatively affect
the Mexican economy, exacerbated by the recent impact of AH1N1 influenza epidemic in
Mexico. Following the Government’s request in February for US$4 billion in lending during
CY09, the Bank began to scale up lending, committing about US$1.6 billion in the first half of
FY09 and reached a total of US$3.4 billion (80 percent investment lending) at the end of FY09.
As the domestic economy continues to deteriorate and the social impacts spread, the government
has now requested an additional US$1 billion in CY09 and another US$5 billion in CY10, in
order to have access to a total of US$10 billion over the two-year period to meet the challenge.
The Bank has agreed to significantly step up its lending commitments to around US$6.7 billion
in FY10, thereafter the lending program will depend among other things on IBRD’s overall
lending capacity.

3.     The scaled up lending program supports several key areas of the government’s long term
development program, as well as its response to the crisis. Key areas of support include:
       (i)     Poverty alleviation and social services. The Board approved in FY09 a
               US$1.5 billion operation to support Mexico’s conditional cash transfer program,
               Oportunidades. In FY10, the Bank would continue to provide support for the
               social sectors through a proposed US$1 billion Seguro Popular Program to ensure
               access to healthcare by the poor, along with the support to small farm households

51
   A previous update was prepared for the Oportunidades Program Loan which was approved by the Board in
February 2009. The CPS Progress Report is currently scheduled for early FY11.

                                                - 87 -
          through PROCAMPO. To confront the recent influenza epidemic and a potential
          next wave this winter, the Bank has agreed with the government to prepare an
          assistance package which includes a US$480 million investment loan to be
          presented in early FY10. Details of this package are offered below in Box 2.
          Demand side support in the social sectors would be complemented by operations
          to enhance access and the quality of services including an education package
          which comprises three operations with an Education Reform DPL for US$500
          million in support; a US$220 million “second phase” APL for School-Based
          Management promoting local community and parental participation in schools;
          and a US$100 million investment operation targeting schools and school children
          in poor rural areas.


Box 2. Bank Response to the Mexico Influenza Crisis

In light of the recent influenza epidemic, which originated in March of this year and has occasioned close
to 10,000 cases and more than 100 fatalities in the country, the Government requested the Bank’s support
in strengthening its capacity to monitor the spread of the A/H1N1 and influenza viruses more generally
and to respond to future waves of the epidemic. The Bank agreed to assist the country through three
mechanisms:
    a) First, the Government and the Bank negotiated the restructuring of the Mexico Third Basic Health
       Care Project (shortly to be approved by the Regional Vice-President) to provide immediate
       financial assistance of approximately US$25 million;
    b) Second, the Government and the Bank are preparing a new loan of US$480 million for an
       influenza prevention and control project to strengthen the National Epidemiological Surveillance
       System, replenish and maintain emergency stocks of medicines, vaccines and medical supplies,
       upgrade the associated distribution system and strengthen the treatment capacity of intensive care
       units; and
    c) Third, the Government requested grant funding (US$1.7 million) under the Avian and Human
       Influenza Facility to support health systems of federal entities in promoting preventive behaviors.



 (ii)     Climate Change and Environmental Sustainability. Climate change is a major
          policy objective of Mexico, as is ensuring the environmental friendliness of public
          investment during and after the crisis. Further to the Climate Change DPL that
          accompanied the CPS in April 2008, three more operations were prepared and
          approved during FY09 for a total lending amount of US$751 million seeking to
          support Mexico’s Climate Change Agenda and its commitment to reduce GHG
          emissions. The Bank will continue to assist Mexico in the context of the National
          Climate Change Strategy with the preparation of a US$1.5 billion Green Growth
          DPL to support green sectoral policies, incentives, and regulations, expected to be
          presented in FY10. This would serve as a policy umbrella operation to be
          complemented by investment lending during FY10, including a proposed Urban
          Transport Transformation Project of US$200 million, co-financed with
          US$200 million from the Clean Technology Fund (CTF); and a proposed
          US$400 million operation to reduce electricity consumption by introducing more
          efficient technologies in lighting systems.



                                               - 88 -
       (iii)   Financial Sector. The Bank has a longstanding and productive policy dialogue
               with Mexico on financial sector development. In FY09 a US$1 billion loan was
               approved to support mortgage lending via the second tier development bank
               Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF). For FY10, a NAFIN-BANCOMEXT
               operation to support small and medium-sized enterprises for an amount of
               US$1 billion is being prepared and expected to be presented to the Board in
               December 2009.
       (iv)    Public Sector. Ongoing support in the public sector to assist efforts to improve
               governance includes the Customs Institutional Strengthening Loan for
               US$10 million along with the US$17 million Results Based Management and
               Budgeting loan, both approved in FY10. For FY10 a US$1,000 million
               Multi-sector Crisis Response DPL to assist further advances in the broader
               dimension of measures to meet the economic crisis is being currently discussed
               with the government.



                                      Customs               PUBLIC SECTOR
                                    Results Based          TOTAL: US$1.0 Billion
                                   Multisector Crisis


                                 Housing Finance                  FINANCE SECTOR
                               NAFIN‐BANCOMEXT                   TOTAL: US$2.0 Billion

                                       Green DPL
                                  Efficiency Lightning                   INFRASTRUCTURE &
                                  DPL Urbano
                             Sustainable Rural Development                 CLIMATE CHANGE
                            Urban Transport Transformation                TOTAL: US$2.4 Billion
                               Luz Eficiente
                              ENVDPL    III + Supplemental



                        Education Quality Program (PEC)
                        Education for the Poor (CONAFE)
                              Education Sector DPL                                         SOCIAL SERVICES
                                                                                             PROTECTION
                          Small Farmers (PROCAMPO)                                        TOTAL: US$4.6 Billion
                       Health for the Poor (Seguro Popular)
                      Support to the Oportunidades Program
                         Influenza Control & Prevention


                             Figure 1. Response to Crisis FY09-FY10


Innovation and Responsiveness in Lending
4.      In keeping with the agreed principles of engagement, the Bank has made considerable
efforts to provide Mexico with a broad range of Bank products to meet its needs and to improve
our responsiveness. As detailed in the last update, Mexico has benefited from a variety of
innovative financing solutions. At the federal level this has included the embedded flexibility of
IBRD loans to fix the interest rates on their loans as well as the signing of the master derivatives
agreement (ISDA) to execute stand-alone swaps with the Bank hedging liabilities with IBRD or
other creditors. At the state level, customized solutions have been implemented such as the

                                                        - 89 -
conversion of a loan into local currency. This has allowed the Bank to continue working with
sub-national entities providing them with competitive funding. The Bank has also worked
closely with the government and other Donors to prepare the investment plan for the Clean
Technology Fund (CTF) that was recently approved by the CTF Committee. This plan includes
concessional financing, IBRD and IDB loans, as well as federal, state and municipal resources
and private sector participation for a total of about US$6 billion. The investments proposed will
further contribute to reducing GHG emissions from the Transport and Energy sectors. Mexico is
expected to be the first recipient of CTF funds.

5.      The Bank’s responsiveness has been facilitated by a strong knowledge base and close
working relationship with the client, the availability of a broad menu of Bank products, and a
less pre-determined design of the CPS framework to facilitate reacting to changing client needs.
This has enhanced both our effectiveness and efficiency. For example, project preparation has
been considerably reduced. Since the new Partnership (FY08-13) was discussed by the Board,
the average time elapsed from PCN review to Board has been 7 months. In contrast, as shown
below, during implementation of the FY05-08 CPS the average time to the Board was
18 months.

                  Figure 2: Average Time Lag: PCN – Approval vs. Average Loan Size: FY04-09


                  25                                                                        400




                                                                                                  Loan Amount (US$Millions)
                  20
                                                                                            300

                  15
         Months




                                                                                            200
                  10

                                                                                            100
                   5


                   0                                                                        0
                         FY04      FY05       FY06            FY07     FY08          FY09

                                     Ave. Months                Ave Lending Volume




Facilitating Knowledge Transfer

6.     The Bank is bringing to bear a wide range of instruments to channel knowledge to
Mexico. Formal studies for FY10 include support for the social impacts of modernizing the
health and education system, strengthening finance and competitiveness, micro-regions, and
harmonizing financial management among state governments. This ESW is being augmented
with a variety of non-lending services to deepen dialogue and to meet emerging needs, including
in-time TA (energy, social protection, monitoring and evaluation), and fee-based-services (public
sector management, tax system strengthening, state results based monitoring systems, and
administrative restructuring of the government petroleum enterprise—PEMEX).



                                                     - 90 -
Coordinating Bank Collaboration (IFC)

7.      The IFC’s priority areas focus on investment and advisory activities that complement
IBRD efforts to (i) improve the living conditions and economic opportunities at the base of the
pyramid, (ii) improve living conditions in frontier regions and (iii) support
climate change-related projects. Support includes broadening and deepening the financial sector,
infrastructure, strengthening the investment climate, improving quality in healthcare, good
corporate governance and climate change projects.

8.      In finance, through its Advisory Services unit, IFC is currently implementing projects to
(i) support innovative models in microfinance; (ii) the development and improvement of risk
management systems of financial intermediaries focused on agricultural SMEs; (iii) jointly with
SHF and in support of IBRD’s program is currently piloting a test that will allow savings and
credit institutions become intermediaries and become a new distribution channel for housing
finance; and (iv) at an exploration stage, IFC is exploring mechanisms to support local banks to
enter and provide sustainable finance to mid-sized companies.

9.     To promote infrastructure development, IFC is using its transaction and private expertise
in partnership with the IBRD’s sectoral expertise to partner with the IBRD to improve the
Mexican road concession mechanisms and to provide co-advisory for infrastructure projects at
the sub-national level through BANOBRAS, a Mexican development bank.

10.     Through its Business Enabling Environment advisory services unit, IFC is currently
focused on programs that aim to help reduce transaction costs between the public and the private
sector.    The program is currently implementing municipal simplification projects in
municipalities in the states of Guerrero, State of Mexico, and Mexico City, and is discussing
potential projects in other municipalities in poorer Southern Mexico and requests to explore
projects in trade logistics have been received from the public sector.

11.     On the investment side, IFC continues to support the development of the Mexican private
healthcare sector by providing long-term financing to private hospital operators. On the advisory
side, through Infrastructure Advisory services, IFC is advising the development of two public
hospitals to be developed under a PPP mechanism in the State of Mexico. In addition, IFC is
considering the development of additional advisory projects in Southern Mexico.

12.     IFC continues to support the adoption of best corporate governance practices. It has
recently revamped its Senior Advisory Board to enhance its effectiveness by expanding the
scope beyond corporate governance to include other related and key areas such as climate
change. In December 2008, IFC co-organized the development of the first Latin American
Corporate Governance roundtable in Mexico City.

13.     Finally, for climate change, a new priority area not previously included in the last CPS,
IFC is currently collaborating with IBRD in the development of the Climate Investment Fund. In
addition, several IFC investment departments (e.g. Global Financial Markets, Infrastructure,
Global Manufacturing and Services, Agribusiness) and advisory areas (e.g. Access to Finance,
Infrastructure Advisory) are targeting and developing climate change driven projects.



                                             - 91 -
14.     In response to the crisis, IFC is focused on the implementation of systemic interventions
(such as the recently announced US$150 million facility) to support housing finance and in the
development of risk-sharing facilities to continue supporting SME lending and NPL recoveries
by partnering with large banks. Its current approach consists of: (i) a pro-active approach to
portfolio management; (ii) a selective approach to new business to ensure additionality and
development impact (e.g. focus on countercyclical opportunities such as infrastructure, health
and education, agribusiness); (iii) a pro-active approach to seize the counter-cyclical
opportunities that are expected to emerge (e.g. investments in large, 1st tier companies that act as
anchors to large value chains); (iv) a pro-active stance to develop systemic interventions and
structures that maximize the impact of IFC’s resources (e.g. guarantees, risk sharing facilities);
and (v) a strong cooperation and alignment with IBRD and close consultation with authorities for
systemic interventions.

Bank Portfolio Performance and Quality
15.     Mexico is the Bank’s sixth largest borrower with US$6.45 billion debt outstanding
representing 6.3 percent of the IBRD’s total portfolio as of end-July, 2009. The portfolio
consists of 16 IBRD projects under implementation for a net commitment of US$3.7 billion, of
which US$2 billion remain undisbursed. The disbursement ratio as of end-June on investment
operations was of 214 percent52 compared to an average of 27 percent during the period
1999-2008. During the first half of FY09, four projects were considered at risk, of which net
commitments added up to 8.5 percent of the total net commitment amount. And the last CPPR
(June 2009) these projects were reviewed and agreed actions will be implemented between the
Bank and the government. The emerging economic downturn and fiscal constraints will require
ongoing collaboration to help maintain the health of the portfolio.

Lending Levels

16.     Mexico is in the midst of a deep recession as it faces the impacts of strained global
financial conditions, a sharp contraction in international trade and the outbreak of the A H1N1
flu epidemic. The Bank has agreed with the government on a continued, balanced response to
the request for increased lending. Actual and planned lending for FY09/FY10 is shown below.
A CPS Progress Report would provide details on FY11 lending as Mexico’s needs in term of
lending volumes within the amounts requested for CY09-10, as well as the critical areas to be
supported by Bank operations and AAA, become more defined. Lending in FY11 and beyond
will also dependent on IBRD’s overall lending capacity.




52
  Figure is above 100 percent because it is based on disbursements relative to investment projects in the portfolio at
the beginning of the fiscal year. FY09 has seen strong disbursements, as well as a major increase in investment
lending. Even discounting new entrants into the portfolio, the disbursement rate in FY09 was 37 percent.

                                                       - 92 -
        Figure 3: FY09 Actual and FY10 Planned Operations

                            Assistance Packages FY09-10



7000

                                                   1000
6000

                                                  1,000
5000


4000
                    107                           2,080

3000
                   1,060
                                                  1,600
2000
                   1,503
1000

                   752                            1,020
   0
                   FY09                            FY10

       Education    Green     Social Protection    Finance   Public Sector+Others




                                             - 93 -
                                                 ANNEX 9: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE

Mexico at a glance                                                                                                                                                                7/20/09

                                                                                             Latin         Upper
Key Development Indicators                                                                America         middle
                                                                                                                             Age distribution, 2007
                                                                            Mexico        & Carib.       income
(2008)                                                                                                                                             Male                             Female
                                                                                                                              80+
Population, mid-year (millions)                                              106.4             563          823
                                                                                                                            70-74
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                               1,964          20,421       41,497
                                                                                                                            60-64
Population growth (%)                                                           1.0            1.2          0.6
                                                                                                                            50-54
Urban population (% of total population)                                        77              78           75
                                                                                                                            40-44

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                            1,061           3,833         7,472             30-34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                          9,980           6,780         7,878             20-24

GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                                      14,270          10,309        12,297             10-14
                                                                                                                                 0-4
GDP growth (%)                                                                  1.3             4.2          5.8                       15      10         5        0          5       10     15
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                       0.3             2.9          5.1                                                 percent

(most recent estimate, 2000–2007)

Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, %)                                   2              8             ..
                                                                                                                            Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)                                   5             18             ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                 75             73            70
                                                                                                                            60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                         29             22            22
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                        3              5             ..           50

                                                                                                                            40
Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                                   93              91            94
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)                                 90              89            92            30

Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                                114             120           112            20
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)                              111             116           109
                                                                                                                            10

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                             95             91            95             0
                                                                                                                                              1990        1995         2000         2006
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                       81             78            83

                                                                                                                                       Mexico        Latin America & the Caribbean


Net Aid Flows
                                                                                                                    a
                                                                1980          1990            2000         2007

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                           55          156              -56          247            Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2006):
  United States                                                     9            23              24          154             8
  Germany                                                          15             9              15           26             6
  France                                                           15            51             -11           22             4
                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                             0
Aid (% of GNI)                                                    0.0           0.1             0.0           0.0           -2
Aid per capita (US$)                                                1             2              -1             2           -4
                                                                                                                            -6
                                                                                                                            -8
Long-Term Economic Trends                                       1980          1990            2000         2008            -10
                                                                                                                                   90                95                00              05     08

Consumer prices (annual % change)                                26.3          26.7            9.5            5.1
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                          33.4          28.1           12.1            6.6
                                                                                                                                               GDP                       GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                      0.0          2.8             9.5         11.2
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                                 194          106             100          116
                                                                                                                                 1980–90 1990–2000        2000–08
                                                                                                                                     (average annual growth %)
Population, mid-year (millions)                                 67.6          83.2           98.0         106.4                             2.1                  1.6                  1.0
GDP (US$ millions)                                           194,357       262,710        581,426     1,085,951                             1.1                  3.1                  2.7
                                                                                (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                       9.0           7.8            4.2           3.8                            0.8                  1.5                  2.1
Industry                                                         33.6          28.4           28.0          37.1                            1.1                  3.8                  1.9
  Manufacturing                                                  22.3          20.8           20.3          18.8                            1.5                  4.3                  1.8
Services                                                         57.4          63.7           67.8          59.1                            1.4                  2.9                  3.1

Household final consumption expenditure                          65.1          69.6           67.0          65.5                             1.4                 2.3                  3.8
General gov't final consumption expenditure                      10.0           8.4           11.1          10.3                             2.4                 1.8                  0.4
Gross capital formation                                          27.2          23.1           23.9          26.4                            -3.3                 4.7                  1.5

Exports of goods and services                                    10.7          18.6           30.9          28.3                            7.0               14.6                    5.7
Imports of goods and services                                    13.0          19.7           32.9          30.5                            1.0               12.3                    6.3
Gross savings                                                    22.0          20.3           20.5          24.9


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2006.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).

                                                                                      - 94 -
                                                                                                                                                            Mexico

Balance of Payments and Trade                                        2000         2008

(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                                  166,455        291,807
Total merchandise imports (cif)                                  174,458        308,645
Net trade in goods and services                                  -10,661        -23,844

Current account balance                                           -18,684       -15,527
 as a % of GDP                                                        -3.2          -1.4


Workers' remittances                                                6,573        25,145

Reserves, including gold                                           35,585        95,302

Central Government Finance

(% of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                                    21.4         23.6
  Tax revenue                                                         10.6          8.2
Current expenditure                                                   20.1         19.3
                                                                                                    Technology and Infrastructure                  2000       2007
Overall surplus/deficit (PSBR)                                         -3.4         -2.1
                                                                                                Paved roads (% of total)                            32.8      37.0
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                                   Fixed line and mobile phone
  Individual                                                             40          28           subscribers (per 100 people)                        27        84
  Corporate                                                              35          28         High technology exports
                                                                                                  (% of manufactured exports)                       22.4      18.9
External Debt and Resource Flows                                     2000         2007
                                                                                                    Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             150,901        178,108         Agricultural land (% of land area)                   55        55
Total debt service                                                58,509         40,301         Forest area (% of land area)                        33.7      33.0
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                               –              –         Nationally protected areas (% of land area)            ..      5.3

Total debt (% of GDP)                                                26.0          17.4         Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)           ..    3,967
Total debt service (% of exports)                                    30.4          12.5         Freshwater withdrawal (% of internal resources)     19.1         ..
                                                                    2000          2008
Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                            17,942       18,589          CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                        4.3        4.3
Portfolio equity (net inflows)                                        447        -3981
                                                                                                GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                                 (2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)               7.1        6.6
                 Composition of total external debt, 2007
                                            Other multi-
                                                                                                Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)       1,534     1,712
                                           lateral, 4,576
                          IBRD, 4,540

             Short term
                                                            Bilateral, 1,895
               9,006                                                                                World Bank Group portfolio                     2000       2008

                                                                                                    (US$ millions)

                                                                                                    IBRD
                                                                                                     Total debt outstanding and disbursed         11,444     5,769
                                                                                                     Disbursements                                 1,748     1,940
                                                                                                     Principal repayments                          1,330       600
                                                                                                     Interest payments                               890       200
                                        Private, 158,091
  US$ millions                                                                                      IDA
                                                                                                     Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0         0
                                                                                                     Disbursements                                     0         0
Private Sector Development                                           2000         2008               Total debt service                                0         0

Time required to start a business (days)                                   –        28              IFC (fiscal year)                              2000      2007
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                             –       12.5              Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio     1,234     1,184
Time required to register property (days)                                  –        74                 of which IFC own account                      723       798
                                                                                                     Disbursements for IFC own account               179       209
Ranked as a major constraint to business                             2000         2007               Portfolio sales, prepayments and
 (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                                   repayments for IFC own account                 66       134
   Anticompetitive or informal practices                                   ..      19.0
   Corruption                                                              ..      17.8             MIGA
                                                                                                     Gross exposure                                    –         –
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                                21.5         38.8              New guarantees                                    –         –
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                                        9.6         13.2


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                               7/20/09
.. indicates data are not available. – indicates observation is not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                           - 95 -
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                         Mexico


With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                                                                       Mexico


Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                                                      1990            1995               2000               2007
 Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, % of population)                                                       ..              ..                  ..                ..
 Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)                                                  ..              ..               24.2              17.6
 Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)                                                        3.2             4.3                 3.9               4.6
 Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                               13.9               ..                6.0               3.4


Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                                                                 98                ..                97                   98
 Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                                  86               95                 99                  104
 Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                                             53                ..                72                   87
 Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                                       95               96                 97                   98


Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                                      97               ..                 99                   99
 Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                                     37              36                  37                   39
 Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                                                       12              14                  18                   23


Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                                 52               45                 38                   35
 Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                      42               36                 32                   29
 Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)                                                    75               90                 96                   96


Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)                                                ..              ..                  ..                  60
 Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                                ..             86                   ..                  93
 Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                                    ..             67                  70                   71


Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                                                      ..              ..               0.3                   0.3
 Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                                                     61              44                 32                   20
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                          ..             13                 64                   99


Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Access to an improved water source (% of population)                                                              88               90                93                 95
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                                                        56               66                76                 81
 Forest area (% of total land area)                                                                               35.5             34.6              33.7               33.0
 Nationally protected areas (% of total land area)                                                                   ..               ..                ..               5.3
 CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                                            5.0              4.4               4.3                4.3
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                                         6.1              6.2               7.1                6.6


Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                                                              6.4              9.7              12.6               18.8
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                                                         0.1              0.8              14.4               64.8
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                                   0.0              0.1               5.2               21.7
 Personal computers (per 100 people)                                                                               0.8              2.6               5.8               14.4



   Education indicators (%)                                     Measles immunization (% of 1-year olds)                   ICT indicators (per 100 people)

   125                                                          100                                                       90
                                                                                                                          80
   100
                                                                 75                                                       70
    75                                                                                                                    60
                                                                                                                          50
    50                                                           50
                                                                                                                          40
    25                                                                                                                    30
                                                                 25                                                       20
     0
                                                                                                                          10
           2000         2002         2004        2006
                                                                  0                                                        0
                                                                           1990     1995     2000     2006                       2000        2002       2004         2006
                  Primary net enrollment ratio
                                                                                                                                        Fixed + mobile subscribers
                  Ratio of girls to boys in primary &                  Mexico     Latin America & the Caribbean
                  secondary education                                                                                                   Internet users



Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available.                                                              7/20/09

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).




                                                                                    - 96 -
ANNEX 10: MAP SECTION




        - 97 -
wb87424
L:\MX-DPL-Aug2009\MX Green Growth PD Sep14.docx
9/15/2009 7:14:00 PM




                                                  - 98 -
