                                                                                                      94073
Mexico: Framework for Green Growth Development Policy Lending                                       April 16, 2012




 IBRD Backs Regulatory Reforms for Energy and Transport Sectors


Overview
Drawing upon funding from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD),
the World Bank supported a government program in Mexico to develop the regulatory,
monitoring, and financial frameworks to encourage lower greenhouse gas emissions in the
transport and energy sectors. The IBRD loan supported steps to promote long-term sustainable
development in these sectors, such as the publication of regulations to promote the use of
renewable energy and the sustainable use of energy. Another policy action was the
establishment of a fund to facilitate the reduction of emissions in energy consumption by
replacement of incandescent light bulbs with compact fluorescent light bulbs, and replacing
inefficient appliances. In transport, another policy action was the creation of the National
Infrastructure Fund (FONADIN) and the Federal Support Program for Mass Transit
(PROTRAM). All mass transit projects supported by PROTRAM have climate change
considerations and have emission baselines.


Challenge
The energy and transport sectors were responsible for more
                                                                    More Results
than 70 percent of greenhouse gases in Mexico in 2006.
Mexico’s energy sector was heavily reliant on hydrocarbons,

                                                                    US$1.5
which represented 90 percent of total energy consumption
and fueled over 70 percent of installed power generation.
Furthermore, Mexico’s transport emissions increased by 27

                                                                    billion
percent between 1990 and 2005, accounting for
approximately 18 percent of Mexico’s total emissions in
2005. In addition, high levels of urban air pollution,
                                                                    was the loan from IBRD
exacerbated by inefficient transport, represent a major health
and environmental concern in Mexican cities.  To address
the challenges posed by climate change, Mexico had
publicly committed to reducing its Greenhouse Gas                  LEARN MORE
emissions. The country had ratified the UN Framework
                                                                     Mexico Framework for Green
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto                  Growth Development Loan
Protocol, and was one of the first developing countries to
commit to a specific carbon reduction target through the use         COP 16 Mexico 2010
of clean and efficient technologies.


Approach
Mexico established a policy framework that could significantly reduce its carbon footprint in the
years to come. The success of this program – detailed in the Special Program for Climate
Change(PECC) – is dependent upon the further evolution of regulations, institutions, financing
mechanisms, and monitoring and evaluation capacity.
The PECC identified two sectors as particularly central to the climate change agenda: transport
and energy. The Bank’s aim was to support the Government of Mexico in reducing greenhouse
gas emissions through “green” sector policies, incentives, and regulation. Specifically, the
“Mexico Framework for Green Growth” operation supported the government's program to
further develop the regulatory, monitoring, and financial frameworks for low emissions evolution
of the transport and energy sectors.


Results
The Mexico Green Growth Development Policy Loan helped to support improvements in
several key outcomes linked to greenhouse gas emissions reductions, among them:

      The government completed its National Emissions Inventory (Inventario Nacional de
      Emisiones) on November 25, 2009, and submitted the 4th National Communication to
      the UNFCCC on the same date.

      Development of methodologies for the quantification of greenhouse gases for the
      exploitation, production, transformation, distribution, and consumption of energy, as well
      as for the avoided emissions.

      Establishment of the Fund for Energy Transition and the Sustainable Use of Energy,
      and the promulgation of regulations to define the Fund's operations.

      Forty-one cities have approached the Federal Support Program for Mass Transit
      (PROTRAM) for funding for mass transit projects and funding has so far been approved
      for four of them.

      All mass transit projects prepared under PROTRAM guidelines need to incorporate
      climate change considerations and need to have a baseline of green house gas
      emissions.



Bank Contribution
This loan for US$1.5 billion from IBRD  supported steps to promote long-term sustainable
development in the transport and energy sector sectors. Although this loan was not a
programmatic operation, the Bank has provided Mexico with continuous support to mainstream
its climate change agenda into the energy and transport sectors. Among the operations
approved by the Board subsequent to the DPL were the Efficient Lighting and Appliances
Project (P106424). This project mobilizes various sources of finance, such as IBRD, CTF
(Clean Technology Fund), GEF (Global Environment Facility) for US$250 million, US$50 million
and US$7.1 million respectively.  In urban transport, the Urban Transport Transformation
Project (UTTP, P107159) developed the Investment Plan which the CTF approved for Mexico.
This project blended CTF and IBRD financing (US$200 million and US$150 million
respectively).  Finally, the Low-Carbon Development Policy Loan (P121800) was approved in
2010 for US$401 million.


Partners
Mexico’s Environment Ministry, Energy Ministry, and Ministry of Finance provided leadership
and support during the implementation of this operation. These Ministries provided coordination
and oversight from the outset and encouraged the active participation of all agencies involved
in the program.


Moving Forward
The IBRD loan facility is linked to a number of sector-specific engagements that reflect a
longstanding and comprehensive policy dialogue and operational relationship between the
Government of Mexico and the World Bank. In the energysector, the World Bank currently
supports a variety of initiatives aimed at putting the sector on a low-carbon development path.
Among others, these include studies on renewable resources and on the social and
environmental standards needed to develop wind farms. They also include investments in the
development of wind plants and studies on the potential for mini-hydro development. In the
transportsector , particularly as regards urban transport, this Development Policy Loan builds on
and complements the outcomes of such Bank-supported projects as the Mexican Medium-Size
Cities Transport Program, which supported the strengthening of local institutional capacity as
well as the federal urban transport decentralization process, and the Urban Transport
Transformation Project, which financed mass transit projects at concessional rates using Clean
Technology Funds.
