                             Document of
                           The World Bank



                                                   Report No: ICR00002758




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-4310-ANG)

                               ON AN

                             OPERATION

              IN THE AMOUNT OF CREDIT SDR67.5 MILLION

                     (US$102 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                     TO THE REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

                               FOR AN

       EMERGENCY MULTISECTOR RECOVERY PROGRAM PHASE-II



                             May 28, 2014




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2013)

                            Currency Unit = Kwanza
                             SDR 1.00 = US$0.67
                               US$ 1.00 = 95.00

                            January 1 to December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EDA         Estacção de Desenvolvimento Agrícola (Agriculture Develpment Station)
EIA         Environment Impact Assessment
EMRP        Emergency Multisector Recovery Program
EMRP-1      Emergency Multisector Recovery Program - Phase 1
EMRP-2      Emergency Multisector Recovery Program - Phase 2
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
GoA         Government of Angola
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
IDA         International Development Association
IDA         Instituto de Desenvolvimento Agrário (Agrarian Development Institute)
IIA         Instituto de Investigação Agronomica (Agronomy Research Institute)
ISR         Implementation Status Report
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR         Mid-Term Review
MOP         Ministry of Planning
NGO         Nongovernmental organization
NPV         Net Present Value
PDO         Project Development Objectives
PMIU        Project Management and Implementation Unit
PPMRRP      Priority Phase Multisector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
ROC         Regional Operations Committee
SENSE       Serviço Nacional de Sementes (National Service of Seeds)
TTL         Task Team Leaders
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNLP        United Nations Laissez-Passer
US$         United State Dollars
XDR         Special Drawing Rights

         Vice President:        Makhtar Diop
         Country Director:      Gregor Binkert
         Sector Director:       Jamal Saghir
         Sector Manager:        Supee Teravaninthorn
         Project Team Leader:   Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes Chembeze
         ICR Team Leader:       Mônica Sawyer
                                              REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

                  Emergency Multisector Recovery Project Phase II (EMRP II)



                                                          CONTENTS


B. Key Dates ……………………………...……………………………………………….i
C. Ratings Summary ……………………………………...……………………………….i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ………...……………………………………………………ii
E. Bank Staff ......................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .........................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ……………………………………………...vi
H. Restructuring (if any) ………………………………....................................................vi
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................... vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3.     Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 20
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
6.     Lessons Learned: ...................................................................................................... 23
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/ Implementing/ Agencies/ Partners ....... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27
Annex 3: Evaluation of the Emergency Multisector Recovery Program ......................... 33
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 41
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 48
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 50
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 51
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 62
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 63
                                      DATASHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                          ANGOLA
                                                                          EMERGENCY
Country:                Angola                  Project Name:             MULTI-SECTOR
                                                                          RECOVERY - PHASE
                                                                          2
Project ID:             P095229                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43100
ICR Date:               05/28/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ANGOLA
Original Total
                        XDR 67.50M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 50.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 58.81M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Planning
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/30/2004     Effectiveness:          01/28/2008          01/28/2008
Appraisal:            11/18/2005     Restructuring(s):                           06/30/2011
Approval:             05/22/2007     Mid-term Review:        04/01/2010          04/01/2011
                                     Closing:                06/30/2011          05/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower       Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing   Moderately Satisfactory


                                                i
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower
                                                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                    15                     5
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   30                  43
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                30                  40
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                            25                  12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                           24                  35
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                    25                  1
Decentralization                                                        13                  4
Education for all                                                       13
Rural services and infrastructure                                       25                  60

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Gregor Binkert                       Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:              Supee Teravaninthorn                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                             Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes
Project Team Leader:                                              Abdelmoula M. Ghzala
                             Chembeze
ICR Team Leader:             Monica Sawyer
ICR Primary Author:          Monica Sawyer




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective of the EMRP-2 was to assist the government to: (a)
facilitate agricultural marketing in specific areas with high agricultural potential that have
been affected by the conflict; (b) reconstruct and rehabilitate critical infrastructure; and
(c) strengthen the capacity of participating ministries and agencies for improved
governance and transparency, and of local governments for future decentralization.
EMRP-2 was the second phase of the EMRP program, designed to assist Angola in post
war recovery efforts to build the foundation for long-term reconstruction, economic
rehabilitation, and the reestablishment of state administration throughout the country..
The latter objectives built on the objectives and activities undertaken within Phase 1 of
the EMRP (EMRP-1) and were consistent with the Estratégia de Combate a Pobreza
(ECP), the Poverty Reduction Strategy, and the Priority Phase Multisector Rehabilitation
and Reconstruction Program (PPMRRP).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no changes during the life of the project

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Kilometers of targeted roads in good condition in selected provinces.
Value
quantitative or   0                        600                               503
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/23/2007               05/23/2007                        05/30/2013
Comments
                  373 km in the Malanje province (financed by GoA) and 130 km in the Bié
(incl. %
                  Province of the targeted 600km was completed (83 percent completed).
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Primary road linking Lucala and Negage rehabilitated and in good condition.
Value
                                           Good condition                    Good Condition
quantitative or   Poor Condition
                                           (150km)                           (150km)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/23/2007               05/23/2007                        05/30/2013
Comments
                  This was fully achieved, with Government of Angola (GoA) support within the
(incl. %
                  framework of the program (100 percent).
achievement)
                Medium and low-voltage distribution systems in Medium and low-voltage
Indicator 3 :   distribution systems in N'Dalatando, Uige, Malanje, Luena, Kuito, and Luanda
                have been rehabilitated and are operating continuously.
                                           Rehabilitation                   Malanje,
Value
                Only half of the installed completed and                    N'Dalatando and
quantitative or
                capacity is operational. service operating                  Luanda operating;
Qualitative)
                                           continuously                     Kuito, Luena and

                                                 iii
                                                                                Uige installation 67
                                                                                percent completed
                                                                                by closing date
                                                                                05/30/2013
Date achieved     05/23/2007                 05/23/2007                         05/30/2013
                  This is partially achieved with the systems in Malanje, N'Dalatando & Luanda
Comments
                  rehabilitated and operating, financed by GoA within the framework of the
(incl. %
                  program. The rehabilitation of the systems in Kuito, Luena and Uige was
achievement)
                  ongoing at the closing date -67%
                  Number of people in Malange with access to improved water services through
Indicator 4 :
                  house connections and rehabilitated standpipes rises.
                                                                                200,000 individuals
                                                                                benefitting from
                                             40,000 benefitting
Value                                                                           3,200 house
                                             from (2,500 house
quantitative or   0                                                             connections, 45
                                             connections and
Qualitative)                                                                    standpipes, and
                                             40 standpipes)
                                                                                77.6 km of pipes
                                                                                installed
Date achieved     05/23/2007                 05/23/2007                         05/30/2013
Comments          Achieve more than forecasted. The original target beneficiaries were exceeded
(incl. %          by 400 percent, household connections by 28 percent, and pipes installed by 98
achievement)      percent.
                  Number of people in N'Dalatando with access to improved water services
Indicator 5 :
                  through house connections and rehabilitated standpipes rises.
                                                                                150,000 individuals
                                                                                benefitting from
                                             59,000 benefitting                 2100 house
Value
                                             from (1,600 house                  connections, 93
quantitative or   0
                                             connections and                    standpipes, 42 km
Qualitative)
                                             93 standpipes)                     of pipes, an intake
                                                                                station and water
                                                                                treatment facility.
Date achieved     05/23/2007                 05/23/2007                         05/30/2013
Comments          Achieve more than forecasted. The original target beneficiaries exceeded by 155
(incl. %          percent, household connections by 31 percent. All standpipes were installed.
achievement)      Intake station and treatment facility were completed but not forecasted.
                  System of procurement and financial management in the ministries and agencies
Indicator 6 :
                  involved in the project improved, according to the World Bank.
                                             Procurement risk
Value             World Bank procurement
                                             assessment shows                   Procurement risk
quantitative or   risk assessment shows
                                             the risk to have                   has declined
Qualitative)      risk to be high
                                             declined
Date achieved     05/23/2007                 05/23/2007                         05/30/2013
Comments          Achieved. During the life of the projects, procurement legislation was approved
(incl. %          by the GoA and implementing agencies received procurement capacity therefore
achievement)      reducing the risk.
                  Fiscal transfer mechanisms for decentralization being implemented in some
Indicator 7 :
                  provinces.
Value             No fiscal transfer         Implementation                     Fiscal transfer Not

                                                 iv
quantitative or   mechanism in broad use underway in three                       monitored.
Qualitative)      throughout the country selected provinces
Date achieved     05/23/2007                 05/23/2007                          05/30/2013
Comments          This indicator was not included in the ISRs, therefore it was not monitored.
(incl. %          There are fiscal transfer mechanisms within the provinces but cannot be
achievement)      attributed to the project.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     600 kilometer of feeder/rural roads rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                         600 km                               503 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/23/2007                05/23/2007                           05/30/2013
Comments
                  373 km in the Malanje province (financed by GoA) and 130 km in the Bié
(incl. %
                  Province of the targeted 600km was completed (83 percent completed).
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     150 km of trunk road rehabilitated.
Value                                      150 km of high                        150 km of high
(quantitative     0 Km rehabilitated       traffic roads                         traffic roads
or Qualitative)                            rehabilitated                         rehabilitated
Date achieved     05/23/2007               05/23/2007                            05/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100 percent achieved, paralleled financed by the GoA.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Kilometers of water network in Malanje and N’Dalatando rehabilitated
                                                                              Malange peri-urban
                                                                              completed,
Value                                      Malange : 50 Km
                                                                              N'Dalatando
(quantitative   0 km rehabilitated         N'Dalatando: 35
                                                                              completed and
or Qualitative)                            Km
                                                                              water distribution
                                                                              system completed.
Date achieved 05/23/2007                   05/23/2007                         05/30/2013
                This was 155 percent achieved, as the project exceeded targets. Malanje: target
Comments
                for pipes exceeded by 55.2 %; N’Dalatando: target for pipes exceeded by 20%
(incl. %
                and intake station and treatment facility were constructed; Kuito: 60 km urban
achievement)
                network constructed
                Capacity of Ministry of Energy and Water to carry out public expenditure
Indicator 4 :
                tracking studies improved.
                                           Capacity is
Value           Capacity is weak,          stronger,
                                                                              Capacity
(quantitative   according to World Bank according to
                                                                              strengthened
or Qualitative) Assessment                 World Bank
                                           Assessment


                                                  v
Date achieved 05/23/2007                  05/23/2007                          05/30/2013
                100% achieved. The requisite skills were developed and retained within the
Comments
                Ministry of Energy and Water. The Ministry now has an actions plan to invest
(incl. %
                US$5.9 billion to expand and upgrade water pumps, purification systems to 120
achievement)
                municipalities by 2017.
                Capacity of ministry and agencies participating in the project implementation to
Indicator 5 :
                implement projects transparently improved.
                                          Capacity is
Value           Capacity is weak,         stronger,
(quantitative   according to World Bank according to                          Stronger capacity
or Qualitative) Assessment                World Bank
                                          Assessment
Date achieved 05/23/2007                  05/23/2007                          05/30/2013
                100% achieved. The developed capacity supported the Recipient ministries and
Comments
                agencies have developed sector-specific plans such as Water For All and Energy
(incl. %
                For All, which aim to guide a major expansion in access to public goods and
achievement)
                services by 2017.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     09/08/2007         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     01/23/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  3     12/29/2008     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   4.23
  4     06/22/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 13.16
  5     12/16/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 20.58
  6     06/30/2010     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 23.06
  7     04/02/2011         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 24.14
  8     01/11/2012         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 31.12
  9     11/15/2012         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 56.06
                                                    Moderately
 10     06/12/2013     Moderately Satisfactory                                          66.67
                                                  Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of closing date to
 06/30/2011       N       S     MS           24.85   May 31, 2013 to accommodate
                                                     project delays



                                                 vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     In April 2002 the representatives of the Government of Angola (GoA) and of
União Nacional para Independência Total de Angola (UNITA) agreed to a ceasefire and
signed what became known as the Lusaka Protocol. The latter restarted the
implementation of the previously stalled Bicesse Accord, 1 and included the reintegration
of the UNITA forces into the Angola Armed Forces. The conversion of UNITA into a
recognized political party created a unique opportunity to rebuild after four decades of
war and lay the foundations for economic recovery.

2.      The nearly 40 years 2 independence and civil war had devastated Angola’s
economy, infrastructure, and the quality of life of its inhabitants. During the conflict, the
Angolan economy virtually collapsed. 3 By 2004 Angola had one of the world’s highest
levels of income inequality. The extractive sector, which represented 6.3 percent of GDP
in 1966, grew to represent 67 percent in 2000, partly due to its expansion, but primarily
reflecting the catastrophic decline of the other sectors of the economy. The resulting
economic problems were also compounded by poor governance and economic
mismanagement.

3.      The physical infrastructure was essentially destroyed, leaving, in the transport
sector specifically, the vast majority of the bridges, roads and airstrips unusable, and in
need of urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation. A similar situation was manifest in most
other infrastructure sectors. In addition, a further legacy of the conflict was the millions 4
of landmines which remained buried throughout the nation, restricting movement and
posing an ongoing threat to the lives and welfare of Angolans.

4.      The conflict led to the displacement of approximately 4 million people, roughly
one-third of its entire population, and the average life expectancy fell to just 44 years of
age, according to United Nations (UN) estimates as of April 2003. 5 Internally displaced



1
  The Bicesse Accord (named after the Portuguese town) signed between People's Movement for the
Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) on
May 31, 1991. This comprehensive agreement includes four documents: (a) a ceasefire agreement, (b)
fundamental principles for the establishment of peace in Angola, (c) concepts for resolving the issues still
pending between the Government (MPLA) and UNITA, and (d) the Protocol of Estoril which includes
elections, military monitoring, internal security, political rights of UNITA, administrative structures and
formation of the Angolan Armed Forces.
2
  The independence war (1961 to 1975) was followed by the civil war (1975-2002)
3
  Source: Transitional support strategy
4
  http://www.our-africa.org/angola/land-mines There were approximately 10 million mines in Angola.
http://www.halotrust.org/where-we-work/angola
5
   http://www.un.org/News/Press/docs/2002/SC7299.doc.htm - Some 750,000 Angolans (7% of the
populations) died from conflict- related causes, including famine or diseases. Life expectancy was 44 years,



                                                     1
people (IDPs) moved into informal settlements in overcrowded urban and semi-urban
areas, with limited access to essential services, particularly in the capital region. With the
advent of peace, many IDPs returned to their former home provinces, placing new strains
on communities and administrations already struggling with the legacies of conflict.

5.       After the cessation of the conflict, the priority of the GoA was to re-establish
central and local administration, restore basic infrastructure, and provide assistance to the
resident population and IDPs in affected areas. The framework for the concomitant
interventions, with the support of the development partners, was defined in a Poverty
Reduction Strategy 6 (PRSP). This Strategy, which included a Priority Phase of
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program (PPRRP) for the period from 2003-05, was
later extended to 2011. The specific objectives of the PPRRP were to: (a) address the
immediate needs of the poorest people and displaced population (including facilitating
the return and resettlement of an estimated 3 million people who were voluntarily
returning to their regions of origin); (b) improve the quality of life of people living in
both rural and urban areas by expanding access to vital public services; (c) reestablish
critical transportation links throughout the country and, in particular, in provinces most
affected by war; (d) enhance food security and start to revive the rural economy,
especially in the provinces most affected by war including Bié, Huambo, Moxico,
Luanda Norte and Luanda Sul, Uíge, Cuando Cubango, and Malanje; and (e) to
strengthen capacity of government at all levels to formulate, prepare, implement, and
manage medium and long-term development programs.

6.      The resources to implement the GoA strategy were to come from domestic funds,
primarily revenues from the oil sector, and assistance from the development partners. The
EMRP (Phases 1 and 2) were designed to support the delivery of these resources, within
the framework of the PPRRP.

7.      Rationale for Bank Assistance. At the time of project design, the Transitional
Support Strategy 7 in place envisioned a number of emergency operations to address
Angola’s immediate post-conflict needs. By approval, the World Bank Group’s Interim
Strategy Note (2007 – 2008) 8 (ISN) acknowledged that whilst the growing oil revenues
allowed Angola to attract non-concessional finance, there remained solid justification for
the continued involvement of the International Development Agency (IDA). The ISN
cited the Independent Evaluation Group's 2007 Country Assistance Evaluation, which
stated that: "the Bank's knowledge and analytical capacity to provide government with



and some 30 percent of all children died before reaching the age of five. Among the most vulnerable social
group were the rural populations, female heads of households, children and persons with disabilities.
7
  Report No. IDA/R2003-0027, approved on March 27, 2003, the TSS aimed at (i) enhancing the
transparency, efficiency, and credibility of public resource management; (ii) expanding service delivery to
war-affected and other vulnerable groups; and (iii) preparing the ground for broad-based pro-poor
economic growth.
8
  Approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank on March 4, 2003 (Report No. 25471-
ANG).



                                                    2
policy advice and support in relevant areas such as poverty alleviation strategies in a
post-conflict, resource-rich, unequal and extremely poor society..." was a key reason for
continued IDA engagement. The ISN identified the role of the World Bank Group as
helping Angola to recover and develop by: “(a) strengthening public sector management
and government institutional capacity; (b) supporting the rebuilding of critical
infrastructure and the improvement of service delivery for poverty reduction; and (c)
promoting growth of non-mineral sectors.” The EMRP was designed originally as an
emergency intervention to realize these objectives. 9

8.     The EMRP-2 subsequently supported the reconstruction of critical infrastructure,
the promotion of agriculture, and the strengthening of human and institutional capacity.

9.       This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) addresses the
activities supported by second phase of the EMRP Program, which closed on May 31,
2013. A summary of the findings and conclusions from the ICR 10 forEMRP-1 is
provided in Annex 3.

1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

10.     The project development objective of the EMRP-2 was to assist the government
to: (a) facilitate agricultural marketing in specific areas with high agricultural potential
that have been affected by the conflict; (b) reconstruct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure; and (c) strengthen the capacity of participating ministries and agencies for
improved governance and transparency, and of local governments for future
decentralization. EMRP-2 was the second phase of the EMRP program, designed to
assist Angola in post war recovery efforts to build the foundation for long-term
reconstruction, economic rehabilitation, and the reestablishment of state administration
throughout the country.

11.     Key indicators. EMRP-2 comprehensive list of the key performance indicators is
attached under Annex 2, including activities funded by IDA and GoA.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification
12.    The PDO was not revised during project implementation. As elaborated in Section
2.2, implementation delays, the emergency nature of the activities, and increased public
resources led the GoA to parallel finance activities scheduled under EMRP-2. At the
request of the client, new activities, consistent with the existing framework, were


9
  regional operations committee (ROC) meeting provided the authorization to proceed under OP/BP 8.50 -
Emergency Recovery Assistance, on January 2004. Appraisal was concluded on November, 2005 but due
to IDA-14 resource constrains the project was divided into two phases.
10
     Implementation Completion and Results Report for EMRP-1 Report No. ICR00001872



                                                  3
introduced during the implementation of the project. These changes were recorded in the
Aide Memoires, and in the subsequent Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR).
Nonetheless, as a restructuring was not processed, the key performance indicators were
left unchanged.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries
13.     The primary beneficiaries of EMRP-2 were the resident population in the conflict-
affected provinces of Bié, Moxico, Kwanza Norte, Uíge, Huambo and Malanje. The
project was to support essential investment in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the
following critical infrastructure: (a) tertiary roads and bridges which would restore access
to the rural communities along their length; (b) water and electricity supply in the peri-
urban areas of Malanje, N’Dalatando, Kuito, Luena; Uíge; (c) agricultural development
stations for the benefit of small farmers in the municipalities of Andulo, Camacupa,
Catabola Chinguar, Nharea, and Kuito in Bié Province, and Cacuso, Calandula,
Caculama, Cangandala, Kiwaba Nzoge, and Malanje in Malanje Province. In addition,
the project researchers at University Agostinho Neto through improvement to the Seeds
Institute, Agriculture Development Center and Agriculture Research Institute. The
EMRP-2 project document suggested that scope and scale of the envisaged support
estimated that approximately 58 percent of Angola’s population, including 30 percent of
all IDPs returning home 11, would benefit from the EMRP-2 interventions. The project
was also to contribute to the improvement of capacity for the participating line
ministries 12 and agencies 13 at a central and local level.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)
14.     The EMRP-2 included the following parts:

Part A: Rural Development and Delivery of Social Services

1) Rehabilitation of three hundred (300) kilometers of rural (tertiary) roads in the Bié
   Province.

2) Rehabilitation of three hundred (300) kilometers of rural (tertiary) roads in the
   Malanje Province.

3) Supervision of the civil works under part A of the Project.



11
   See Report No.: P7666, EMRP-2 Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, paragraph 24,
page 5.
12
   Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Energy and Water
13
   Instituto de Estradas de Angola (INEA- Angola Road Institute); Direcção Nacional de Águas (DNA-
National Water Agency); Empresa de Distribuição de Electricidade (EDEL – Electricity Distribution
Company); Empresa Nacional de Electricidade (ENE – Electricity National Company); Direcção Nacional
de Electricidade (DNE – National Electricity Agency); Instituto de Investigação Agronômica (IIA-
Institute for Agronomic Research), Serviço Nacional de Sementes (SENSE- National Seeds Services); and
Instituto de Desenvolvimento Agrário (IDA- Agronomic Development Institute)



                                                 4
Part B: Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Critical Infrastructure:


1) Road Sector. Rehabilitation of 150 kilometers of primary (high traffic) road and
   bridges linking the cities of Lucala and Negage.

2) Electricity Sector. (a) Reconstruction of medium- and low-voltage power distribution
   systems in the provincial capitals of Luena, Malanje, N’Dalatando, Kuito and Uige;
   and (b) Reconstruction of seventy (70) kilometers of powerline network in Luanda.

3) Water Sector.
   a) Repair of water services systems in:
      i) the provincial capital of N’Dalatando, including: (A) rehabilitation of about
          thirty five (35) kilometers of water distribution network, (B) connection to
          water services for about three thousand five hundred (3,500) households, and
          (C) construction of about fifty (50) community standpipes; and

       ii) rural areas of the Moxico province, including (A) construction of about
           seventy (70) boreholes with hand pumps, (B) rehabilitation of about five (5)
           small water distribution systems, and (C) renovation of about fifty (50) water
           points; and

   b) Restoration and expansion of water services in the provincial capitals of Malanje,
      Kuito, and N’Dalatando.

4) Urban Sanitation Sector:

   a) Carrying out of feasibility studies to determine the type of works needed on
      Luanda’s drainage and sewerage collection systems to prevent sewage overflows.

   b) Carrying out of a program, including, civil works and corresponding supervisory
      activities for the improvement of Luanda’s drainage and sewerage collection
      systems, based on the recommendations of the feasibility studies.

   c) Carrying out of a program in the Moxico province, including, designs, civil works,
      supervisory activities, acquisition of equipment, and provision of consultant
      services to assist with erosion control measures in areas prone to natural disasters.

   d) Supervision of Part B of the project.

Part C: Sector Development Strategies and Strengthening of Human and Institutional
Capacities


1) Design and implementation of strategies to develop key infrastructure areas,
   including electricity, transport and water services.



                                              5
2) Provision of technical assistance and training to Line Ministries, Line Agencies, and
   Ministry of Planning (MOP) to strengthen their capacities in infrastructure
   development matters.

3) Provision of technical advisory services to both central and local governments to: (a)
   develop fiscal transfer mechanisms with appropriate management and operating
   procedures; (b) design procedures for municipal-level strategic planning; and (c)
   monitor revenue generated by local governments.

4) Carrying out of an environmental and social assessment in connection with the
   implementation of the Project.

5) Provision of grants to finance goods, works, services, resettlement and compensations,
   as provided in the environmental and social mitigation system referred to in
   Paragraph 5 (b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

6) Provision of grants to finance goods, works and services for Local Governments’
   decentralization and social development projects.

Part D: Management, Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation

1) Provision of technical advisory services and goods for purposes of:

      a) supporting the management, monitoring, and evaluation of the implementation of
         activities carried out under the project;

      b) carrying project studies, including, inter alia, performance reviews and impact
         evaluations.

1.6      Revised Components

15.     The EMRP-2 was approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the World
Bank on May 22, 2007. The project was declared effective on January 28, 2008, a delay
of eight months, after the Bank’s legal department required the GoA to re-sign the legal
documents since the original signing did not adhere to the national requirements. This
was 26 months since appraisal on November 18, 2005.

16.     Over the intervening period, Angola’s fiscal situation changed dramatically,
reflecting the significant increase in revenues from the oil sector. The increased
resources allowed the GoA to expedite and expand the most urgent rehabilitation and
reconstruction activities originally programmed under the framework of the EMRP-2 14 A
comprehensive list of these interventions is provided in Annex 2. The Bank responded
positively to this development, and worked in a cooperative manner with the


14
  ISR #3 dated December 29, 2008 states that: “Borrower (central or regional governments) unilaterally
decided to implement outside the project in order to expedite their launching and/or full implementation.”



                                                    6
implementing agency and the main stakeholders in the GoA to identify, and implement
with the financial support of the project, additional interventions consistent with the
framework designed for the EMRP, and which would support the realization of the PDO.

17.    To strengthen agricultural marketing, it was agreed that the EMRP-2 would fund
the reconstruction of those Agricultural Development Stations (Estação de
Desenvolvimento Agrícola- EDAs) which remained to be completed after EMRP-1 and
the rehabilitation of rural (tertiary) roads in the provinces of Bié. Furthermore, it was
also agreed that EMRP-2 would focus on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of water
and electricity services in the peri-urban areas of selected capital cities to maximize the
poverty alleviation impacts of Bank financed interventions. .

18.     Although the project continued to evolve, given the nature of the Emergency
Recovery Loan (ERL), the resulting changes in the activities to be implemented were
introduced promptly and quickly 15 endorsed by Bank Management. The nature of these
changes necessitated a Level 2 restructuring, and the Bank team sought a formal request
from the GoA to undertake such a restructuring, including necessary revisions to the legal
agreement. Despite numerous proposals, the formal request for a restructuring of the
project was never received from the GoA since it considered it as fungible resources part
of the overall PPRRP framework.


1.7 Other significant changes

19.     Extension of Closing Date. The delay in the approval of the EMRP-2, and the
concomitant changes in the activities to be financed through the project, together with the
lack of familiarity of the implementing agency with the procurement policies of the
World Bank, led the GoA to request an extension of the closing date of the project. The
original project closing date was extended one time by 23 months from June 30, 2011 to
May 31, 2013 by approval of the Country Director on June 29, 2011. This extension
allowed for the completion of the agricultural infrastructures.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
20.     The background analysis undertaken during the preparation stage of the program
shared certain deficiencies with other emergency operations of a similar nature in a
conflict constrain, such as the absence of robust, up-to-date data. The only available
demographic data was from a 1975 census, which was undertaken prior to independence,
and as a result there was a complete lack of basic demographic knowledge, such as


15
  ISR #3 dated December 29, 2008 states that: ISR #3 dated December 29, 2008 states that: “the Borrower
has now concluded that the existing institutional set-up is not conducive to a rapid implementation of some
of the originally planned multi-sector urban infrastructure activities (sanitation, roads, electricity).
Concentrating the Credit proceeds on the more dynamic activities/sectors should increase the
developmental impact and visibility of the Bank's assistance program in Angola”



                                                    7
average household size, the percentage of female-headed households etc. As a result,
neither an economic analysis nor a cost effectiveness analysis of the project components
was possible – a situation that is not unusual for emergency operations.

21.      A further complication was that neither the staff of the Project Management and
Implementation Unit (PMIU) nor any member of the Bank team was able to access the
proposed project sites due to security concerns at the time. This required that reliance be
placed on the local authorities in the beneficiary communities, despite the limitations of
those organizations mentioned earlier, to gain insight into the exact condition of the
infrastructure on the ground. Given the nature of the intervention, it was determined that
speed was of the essence, placing the focus squarely on prompt intervention to restore the
critical infrastructure to facilitate the restoration of livelihoods for the inhabitants and
returning IDPs.

22.     The EMRP aimed to address critical reconstruction and rehabilitation
infrastructure needs in Angola following the conflict. The components in the project
supported the reestablishment of livelihoods for the resident population in the conflict
affected provinces, through improving access, and agricultural production and marketing,
and restoring water and electricity services in the main urban areas of the same provinces.
As such, the components were both very relevant to the needs of the residents of the
conflict affected provinces at that time, and suitable for inclusion in an emergency
operation.

23.    The EMRP-2 was designed to address reconstruction needs in several sectors and
over a large geographical area under the framework of the GoA’s Priority Phase of
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program. As an ERL (then under OP 8.50), the
EMRP-2 was designed in form and scope to address the rapidly evolving and challenging
circumstances, with the emphasis placed on speed of implementation and flexibility to
change direction as required during implementation within the reconstruction framework.

24.    Linkage with other Bank Projects. The Transitional Support Strategy 16 in place
during the EMRP appraisal envisaged a number of emergency operations to address
Angola’s immediate post-conflict needs. The Economic Management Technical
Assistance Project (EMTA) 17 focused on enhancing public resource management and
pro-poor growth. The Angola Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project 18 the
Third Social Action Fund 19 and the HIV/AIDS, Malaria and TB Control Project
(HAMSET) 20 supported expanding service delivery to vulnerable groups. Together with


16
   Report No. IDA/R2003-0027, approved on March 27, 2003, the TSS aimed at (i) enhancing the
transparency, efficiency, and credibility of public resource management; (ii) expanding service delivery to
war-affected and other vulnerable groups; and (iii) preparing the ground for broad-based pro-poor
economic growth.
17
   Economic Management Technical Assistance Project, P072205, approved on March 27, 2003
18
   Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project, P078288, approved on March 27, 2003
19
   Social Action Fund-III, P081558, approved on July 29, 2003
20
   HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis Control Project, P083180, approved on December 21, 2004



                                                    8
the EMRP, these operations provided the cornerstone of the Bank’s support to Angola’s
recovery, laying the ground work for the ISN, and single operations in the sectors
supported by EMRP.

25.    Adequacy of the Government’s Commitment. The EMRP-2 PMIU was headed
by the Vice Minister of Planning throughout project design and preparation. The project
was prepared after broad consultation with existing government agencies, stakeholders,
NGOs, and provincial administrations and framed by the GoA’s Priority Phase of
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program. The commitment to the project is illustrated
by the decision of the GoA, at central or local level, to fund certain of the activities
planned for EMRP-2 from their own resources to ensure no delay, given the hiatus in the
commencement of EMRP-2 implementation.

26.      Assessment of Risks. EMRP-2 was designed as an emergency operation
conducted in an immediate post conflict environment. At appraisal, the overall risk
rating of “Substantial” reflected the weak capacity of the public administration and
difficulty of working in a post-conflict environment. 21 The difficulty in accessing project
sites in conflict-affected areas was not identified as a risk at preparation, but proved to be
a major obstacle for Bank staff, PMIU staff, and contractors during implementation.
Another risk not identified was the difficulty in obtaining entry visas for international
staff at the PMIU, resulting in a disorganized procurement process; and delaying
implementation support missions.

Quality at Entry by Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
27.      No QAG review was carried out at project entry.

2.2 Implementation
28.    Board approval of the EMRP-2 was delayed by 14 months while the Bank
reviewed non-concessional borrowing by the GoA. The review recommended hardening
the lending terms for Angola during IDA-14 period and EMRP-2 was eventually
approved by the Board on May 22, 2007. Effectiveness was also delayed to wait for
publication of the credit in the official gazette. The Credit Agreement was re-signed on
December 19, 2007 and became effective on January 28, 2008.



21
   See technical annex Page 30, Part 5 on “Benefits and Risks”. Since EMRP-2 was designed as an
emergency recovery operation, and a Memorandum and Recommendation of the President was prepared
supported by the Technical Annex on a proposed IDA credit in the amount of SDR 67.5 million (US$102
million equivalent) was prepared, which was approved by the Board on May 22, 2007. In addition An
Appendix to the Technical Annex was also prepared which included twelve appendixes and it provided
further detailed information on project costs & financing; each sector sub-component under EMRP-2:
project cost and financing; rural development, decentralization and local development, transport and roads,
electricity, water, urban services and infrastructure, infrastructure strategies and private sector participation,
procurement assessment and proposed arrangements, financial management assessment and proposed
arrangements, and procurement plan.



                                                        9
29.      Delayed Board approval as a result of the non-concessional borrowing by the
GoA, slow progress on procurement under EMRP-1, and the delayed effectiveness of
EMRP-2 appear to have contributed to the government’s decision to implement priority
activities within the framework of the program using their resources. Facing urgent
reconstruction needs and bolstered by oil revenues, the GoA began to implement priority
investments originally planned to be funded under the EMRP-2. These included: (a) the
rehabilitation of about 150 km of primary roads and bridges linking Lucala with Negage;
(b) the reconstruction of about seventy (70) kilometers of power lines network in Luanda;
(c) the reconstruction of medium and low-voltage power distribution systems in the
provincial capitals of Luena, Malanje, N’Dalatando, Kuito, and Uige; (d) the
rehabilitation of 373 km of rural roads in the province of Malanje, and (e) the undertaking
of the design, civil works and corresponding supervisory activities, for the improvement
of Luanda’s drainage and sewerage collection systems as well as Moxico’s erosion 22.
GoA also contributed funding for the rehabilitation and completion of further 70 km of
rural roads in the province of Bié, which were ongoing at the closing date of the project.
Table 1 summarizes the parallel financing provided by the GoA, within the framework
designed by the program.

                                  Table 1: Parallel Funding by GoA

             Financed by GoA                                                      USD Million

             Urban services                                                               11.55
                      Luanda Drainage                                                      5.38
                      Luanda Sewage                                                        6.17


             Lucala - Negage (150km)                                                       26.5

             Rural Road                                                                    5.78
                       Caculama -Cabundi (110km)                                           1.70
                       Malage- Mangando (158km)                                            2.45
                       Calandula - Massango (105km)                                        1.63

             Electricity                                                                  35.43
                      Distribution Network for Luanda                                      3.09
                      Urban distribution (Provincial Capitals)                            32.34

             Rural Roads in the Bié Province                                              13.42
             Total                                                                        92.68




22
    Report No. T766, Technical Annex, states on paragraph 20 that: “lack of maintenance and problems
with drainage and erosion have undermined many urban streets, leaving many pavements in the main urban
centers in a state of virtual collapse. Lack of proper drainage also contributes to landslides, which threaten
life and damage property.”



                                                     10
30.     A discussion at effectiveness of EMRP-2 was required to formulate how to the
freed up resources could be allocated within project. Displaying considerable flexibility,
the Bank team and GoA identified additional urgent reconstruction needs, consistent with
the framework of program design and the project development objectives, which could be
funded by the project. In lieu of those activities financed by the GoA, EMRP-2 financed
the rehabilitation of the essential infrastructures in the peri-urban areas of the provincial
capitals, and 15 buildings to function as agricultural development stations in priority
provinces. Despite the addition of these activities, there remained an unallocated amount
of SDR 8,685,369.16, which was cancelled as of May 29, 2013. By project closing the
undisbursed amount is SDR 7.916.216,46. Section 3.2 elaborates on the activities funded
by the project in support to the achievement of the PDO.

31.     The Bank and the GoA agreed not to proceed with a second extension of closing
date for EMRP-2. The closure of the project allowed for the strategic recommitment of
the cancelled funds to the Learning for All Project (P122700) in the context of the
Country Partnership Strategy. All activities not finalized within the closing date period
would continue with the provision of parallel support from the GoA.

32.    Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies. Initially,
the PMIU, as well as contractors and consultants, faced extensive logistical difficulties
when visiting the provinces due to inadequate transport infrastructure, the presence of
unmarked land mines, and the tense security situation in the country. These conditions
gradually improved throughout the life of the project.

33.     Factors generally within the control of Government. Inefficient administrative
procedures led to extensive delays, particularly long bureaucratic procedures in arranging
entry visas for consultants, contractors, and Bank staff in charge of supervising the
project.

34.     Factors generally within the control of Project Management and
Implementation Unit (PMIU). A number of factors under the control of the PMIU
contributed to initial implementation delay but were remediated by the end of the project.
These included: (a) logistics difficulty in coordination in the overall management of
project activities, including preparation of work plans; (b) fragmented approach to the
submission of procurement requests by the PMIU, which created confusion and delayed
approvals; and (c) inadequate arrangements for the collection of project-related data
needed for the agreed monitoring and evaluation procedures. For example, in April 2011,
The PMIU engaged an international individual consultant to carry out the mid-term
review (MTR) for the project. After several failed entry visa applications, the consultant
was unable to produce an MTR report.

35.     Following the incomplete MTR, the Bank team and the PMIU jointly undertook
an assessment of project implementation and prepared an action plan to mitigate existing
problems. The assessment found that fiscal decentralization, which increased the
independence of the line ministries and local authorities by giving them greater control
over their own budgets, contributed to lack of coordination between the PMIU, line
ministries and local authorities. The action plan recommended establishing a steering


                                             11
committee, restructuring the project, and extending the closing date. As recommended, a
project steering committee was established to facilitate coordination but the steering
committee lacked the authority to take decisions, had difficulties convening, and was
only partially effective. The project was extended, but as discussed earlier, a more
comprehensive restructuring never occurred as the GoA failed to submit the formal
request.

36.      Initial implementation delays were promptly addressed. The main causes for
the initial implementation delays were: (a) an overestimated implementation schedule; (b)
delay in selecting the contractors/consultants due to the lack of procurement capacity; (c)
weak coordination among several sectors under the PMIU; and (d) difficulties accessing
project sites on account of security problems and poor road conditions. These were
addressed by the MTR action plan. As a result of these delays the project closing date
was extended from June 30, 2011 by 23 months to May 31, 2013.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
37.     M&E Design. The M&E design utilized the results-based approach. Based on
experience with a similar multi-sector emergency reconstruction project in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, key performance indicators were specified for each
subcomponent of the project. The project monitoring framework under the Technical
Annex included 13 indicators. Seven key performance indicators were designed to
measure achievement of the PDOs and six intermediary indicators were linked to the
components. In the life of the project core indicators were added and some indicators
were not monitored. The indicators focused on measuring whether or not improvements
in capacity and physical infrastructure were implemented. Indicators for assessing gains
in capacity were structured so that any gain in capacity represented achievement of the
indicator rather than defining clearly measurable targets. Fifteen indicators are included
in the ISRs, including six key performance indicators and nine intermediate indicators.

38.     M&E Implementation. On account of inadequate institutional capacity of the
project implementing agencies and limited access to project sites in six provinces (Bié,
Kwanza North, Luanda, Malanje, Moxico and Uíge), it was difficult for the PMIU to
collect the appropriate data required for adequate monitoring, analyze it, and develop an
appropriate action plan for improving project performance. The PMIU provided
quarterly reports on the financial management of the project and documented the
completion of activities funded by the project. Quarterly reports did not include detailed
measures of progress towards completion of indicators, such as specifying the number of
households affected by improvement of water infrastructure. The PMIU provided more
detailed accounting of achievement of indicators at the end of the proj ect.

39.     M&E Utilization. Despite limited collection of data by the PMIU in the 6
provinces benefitting from the project, the local and national water authorities provided
data since the works have been completed and the water system was in full operation.
Data regarding the beneficiaries of electricity and rural (agriculture and roads) is limited
considering that these activities were not fully completed by the closing date of the
project.



                                            12
2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
40.    Environment and Social issues. EMRP-2 was implemented as an emergency
recovery operation processed under World Bank OP/BP 8.50. 23 A ROC Meeting held on
January 30, 2004 endorsed the project as environmental assessment Category B since it
focused on rehabilitation and reconstruction of existing infrastructure and on delivery of
basic services, and noted that, as for operations processed under OP 8.50, the
environmental and social assessment would be prepared and disclosed during the first
year of project implementation. The program triggered the following policies: the
environmental policy (OP 4.01), the pest management policy (OP 4.09) as EMRP-1
included procurement of pesticides, and the involuntary resettlement policy (OP 4.12)
because of the potential for land acquisition or loss of livelihoods.

41.     The Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the program
was disclosed in country and at the World Bank InfoShop on March 4, 2008, two months
after EMRP-2’s effectiveness date. Local capacity for environmental and social
management was weak. As agreed at project preparation, an environmental consulting
firm was engaged to manage and oversee the execution of the ESMF. The PMIU and the
consultants worked closely with the ministries and agencies concerned to ensure that
contractors complied with Bank safeguard policies and using the methodologies and
procedures for implementation of the project specified in the ESMF. Environmental and
social safeguards were rated Satisfactory in the ISRs throughout the implementation of
the project.

42.    Financial Management (FM). EMRP-2 carried out all financial management
functions including reconciliation of accounts, external audits of project accounts, and the
necessary actions were taken to address identified weaknesses. Quarterly reports by the
PMIU provided details on the financial aspects of each activities funded by the project.
Throughout the implementation of EMRP-2, external audits were provided in a timely
fashion and all were unqualified. Rating is Satisfactory.

43.     Procurement. Low procurement capacity in the line ministries and local
authorities resulted in the submission of poor quality, incomplete, and disorganized
procurement documentation to the PMIU, which in turn, submitted incomplete packages
to the Bank, leading to substantial procurement delays. There was considerable confusion
at the PMIU when the automated procurement system (PROCYS) was introduced,
aggravating an already imperfect system and causing additional delays. After 2010, a new
Program Coordinator was appointed by the GoA who, together with a newly appointed
Task Team Leader, provided new stimulus to the EMRP-2 with hands on guidance and
clearing of the procurement backlog. As a direct result, the EMRP-2 disbursed more
funds over the period April 2011 to May 2012 than the project had disbursed since the
effectiveness of the Credit (January 2008 to March 2011). 24 Despite these improvements,


23
   See Technical Annex, page 35, paragraph 145, section I on “Environmental aspects and compliance with
the World Bank Safeguard Policies”
24
   ISR #9



                                                  13
the preparation of tender packages remained a constant challenge: For example, as a
result of these problems tender for the feasibility study for the peri-urban areas of Luanda
(municipalities of Vianna), including construction of a new 60/15kv substation with 2 x
20mva transformers, was only completed towards the end of the project in March 2013.
Despite the problems, the Bank procurement rules were followed without exception.

2.5        Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
44.     The EMRP-2 focused on the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure destroyed
during the extensive conflict, such as roads and bridges near the most fertile lands in
Angola. The completion and implementation of the unfinished activities would be funded
by the government. 25 The GoA is funding the finalization of the installation and
connection to the grid of the medium and low-voltage distribution systems for the peri-
urban areas of Kuito, Uíge and Luena cities, which is 60 percent complete. The
rehabilitation of the 200km of rural (tertiary) roads in Bié province was 65 percent
complete, with completion and maintenance funded by the GoA.

45.     The GoA continues to build on successes of EMRP-2 with further investments in
the agriculture sector. Restoration of the agricultural economy and supporting the
livelihoods of the displaced as they return to their home provinces were critical objectives
supported by EMRP-2 project. The furniture and equipment for the operation of the
agricultural development centers financed by EMRP-2 are being provided by IDA
through the Market Oriented Smallholder Agriculture Project. 26

3.         Assessment of Outcomes
3.1        Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of the Objectives: High
46.   The Project Objectives remain highly relevant and aligned with Angola’s 2010-
2015 Strategy to Combat Poverty. Priorities for the country were formulated with
community consultations and include inter alia: (a) agriculture and food security; (b)
economy, markets, and commerce; (c) public works; and (d) public administration.

47.     The objectives of EMRP-2 continue to remain a priority for the GoA as
highlighted in the Bank’s 2013 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Angola approved
on September 26, 2013. The CPS aims to assist the country with transition from IDA to
IBRD financing, and to support the GoA in building on its emerging strong record of
own-management of its development. The CPS focuses on inclusive development. A
Foundation Plank is the basis for building human and institutional capacity. Pillar One
supports the integrated national economic diversification by revitalizing rural economies
toward greater competitiveness and employment and Pillar Two foster enhancing the
quality of service delivery to improve the quality of life of the population.


25
     Annex 2, Table 2.1 provides the list of activities completed under EMRP-2.
26
     Market Oriented Smallholder Agriculture Project, Project P093699, approved on July 31, 2008.



                                                     14
Relevance of Design: Significant
48.    The multi-sector design, although complex and ambitious, was considered vital to
addressing the deficiencies in the condition and scope of the basic infrastructure in the
post-conflict period. The project provided a framework for the delivery of resources to
meet the varied challenges facing Angola at that time. Despite challenges in
implementation, the line ministries and local authorities participating in EMRP-2 have
continued to develop sector strategies and plans to further Angola’s development.

49.     Though ambitious, the post-conflict context, the project design and
implementation offered a flexible mechanism for achieving the Country’s immediate
development goals and therefore laid the groundwork for future improvements. For
instance, in the immediate aftermath of the conflict rural agricultural workers were
unable to bring produce to market; restoration of the agricultural economy rested on the
initial investment in improving the access infrastructure provided by EMRP-2. The
rehabilitation financed by the project aimed at the restoration of essential services
including the provision of water and energy services, and access to rural and agricultural
communities with the finalization of feeder roads.

3.2        Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating Moderately Satisfactory

50.   Activities completed under EMRP-2 supported the successful achievement of the
PDOs for the following reasons.

51.     Project Development Objective 1: Facilitate agricultural marketing in specific
areas with high agricultural potential that have been affected by the conflict. The
achievement of this objective is considered Satisfactory. The project obtained
substantive achievements in facilitating agriculture in the areas most affected by the
conflict with rehabilitation of rural roads and agricultural development centers.

52.     Rural Roads. Between 2005 and 2009, GoA made large investments to
rehabilitate the interstate road network. Large investments are still required to improve
rural roads to link agriculture production areas to markets. 27 Rehabilitation of about 300
km of the feeder/rural roads in the province of Malanje, originally planned to be financed
under the EMRP-2, was deemed a priority for the authorities and funded by the GoA
when unexpected oil revenues became available. Original segments of feeder/rural roads
in the province of Bié (300 km) were reevaluated by the PMIU in 2008, and the costs
assessed to exceed the available funds. The PMIU, after consultations with the Provincial
Governments of Malanje and Bié, and the Ministry of Agriculture, proposed the
construction of 200 km of rural roads segments within Bié Province as an alternative: (a)
Kuito-Chicala-Capolo with one bridge (58 km); (b) Chicala-Mutumbo with one bridge
(63 km); (c) Kuito-Thrumba-Chilonda with one bridge (39.50 km); and (d) Nharea-


27
     Angola Country Partnership Strategy Report No. 76225-AO, Annex 6, page 48



                                                   15
Catabola with two bridges (50 km). Segments of feeder/rural roads completed at project
closing were already having a positive impact on rural communities. For example, before
the project travel on the Chicala-Mutuvo segment took over 3 hours and the route was
accessible by motorcycle only. After the project travel time was reduced by 50 percent 28
and traffic increased significantly once the road was accessible to all vehicle types,
including trucks. Communities continue to build dwellings by the road side to improve
access transport services for goods and people. New markets have sprung at strategic
locations, providing a wider variety of produce and goods.

53.      Agriculture. Twelve agriculture buildings were rehabilitated to function as
Agriculture Development Offices (EDAs) in war-affected provinces as part of the project.
Rehabilitation and construction occurred in the provinces of Bié (Nharea, Andulo,
Camacupa, Catabola, Chinguar, and Kuito) and Malanje (Cacuso, Calandula, Caculama,
Malanje, Kiwaba Nzoge, and Cangandala). In the Huambo Province three agricultural
facilities were rehabilitated at the University Agostinho Neto, including: the Seeds
Institute, Agriculture Development Center and Agriculture Research Institute.
Furnishing and equipment for these buildings would be provided by IDA though the
Market Oriented Smallholder Agriculture Project (P093699) and the GoA. The EDAs
are vital for improving the lives in rural communities by promoting smallholder
agriculture, providing innovative participatory agriculture methods and distributing
inputs. It is estimated that approximately 1,200 smallholder groups and associations with
100 members would benefit from their work. Agriculture continues to on the forefront of
Angola’s plans for diversifying its economy and aims to food security.

54.     Project Development Objective 2: Reconstruct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure. The achievement of this objective is considered Satisfactory. EMRP-2
made significant progress towards reconstruction of Angolan infrastructure. rehabilitation
and construction of infrastructure continues to be an integral part of the Bank’s strategy
for Angola 29.

55.      Water Sector. The water sector surpassed expectations, exceeding all targets for
construction and rehabilitation of water infrastructure. The following activities were
completed in Malanje, N’Dalatando and Kuito peri-urban areas: Intake station, treatment
facility, reservoirs, distribution network, standpipes and household connections. Over
half a million poor people in peri-urban areas have benefitted from water services as a
result of the project. A significant decrease in the incidence of cholera and other water
borne diseases following implementation of the project is an external benefit not reflected
in the formal results framework.

56.     Electricity. EMRP-2 financed rehabilitation of medium and low-voltage
distribution systems for the peri-urban areas of provincial capitals of Kuito, Uíge and



28
   Interview with Mr. Avelino Januário Sandala; teacher at the primary education at the Mutumbo
Community, a frequent traveler on the road using his 125cc motorcycle - July 21, 2013.
29
   See CPS, Results Area 1: Rural and Spatial Development; and Results Area 2: Energy Sector Support



                                                16
Luena. EMRP-2 financed preparation of the tender documents for a feasibility study for
the peri-urban areas of the Province of Luanda (municipalities of Vianna), including
construction of a new 60/15kv substation with 2 x 20 mva transformers. By project
closing, all materials had been purchased, delivered and installation was 60 percent
complete in the peri-urban section of Kuito, Uíge and Luena cities. Funding for
finalization of the installation is being provided by the GoA. This sector would benefit
approximately 100,000 households and businesses in these selected cities.

57.     Urban and Sanitation Services. Due to the limited capacity of the provincial
authority in Moxico and difficult access, a study of erosion control budgeted under
EMRP-2 was not completed. However, the project did fund the preparation of tender
documents for feasibility studies and detailed designs for community participation in
prevention and maintenance measures to reduce erosion in areas prone to natural disasters
in Luena city. The GoA also funded a feasibility study and implementation of
improvements to Luanda’s drainage and sewage collection system, considering the
urgency of reconstruction in the national capital.

58.      Project Development Objective 3. Strengthen capacity of participating ministries
and agencies for improved governance and transparency of local governments for
decentralization.    The achievement of this objective is considered Moderately
Satisfactory. EMRP-2 strengthened the capacity of the local authorities and line
ministries participating in the project, which entered project implementation with
extremely weak capacity. For instance, the water sector trained local authorities and
community leaders on water treatment, distribution, management and sanitation practices.
Institutional and human capacity strengthening continue to be supported as a foundation
plank on the CPS. 30

59.     The EMRP-2 funded technical assistance and training for the Ministry of Energy
and Water, and Ministry of Transport to develop sector strategies. The GoA has
developed sector-specific initiatives such as Water For All and Energy For All, which
aim for major expansion in access to public goods and services by 2017. The Ministry of
Planning also benefited from capacity building activities to strengthen their planning for
infrastructure development. This led to improved knowledge on technical tenders,
evaluation of bids, and supervision of the projects.

60.     Under EMRP-2 financing the PMIU engaged in training through the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) which provided capacity building and support
for the Angola decentralization program and provided direct vocational training to local
communities in order to improve employment opportunities. Harmonization of
methodologies for planning, budgeting, and public management was completed in 5
provinces (Uíge, Bengo, Kwanza Norte, Malanje and Bié) and 163 municipalities. 31 The



30
   Foundation Plank of the CPS will revolve around building human and institutional capacity
approaching the levels common in the middle-income countries, complementing the two strategic Pillars.
31
   As reported in the UNDP - Decentralization and Local Governance, Final Report dated July 2013.



                                                  17
envisaged grants program to finance goods, works, and services for local governments
did not take place under the project.

3.3    Efficiency
Rating Moderately Satisfactory
61.     The emergency nature of the EMRP-2 and the lack of reliable demographic data
did not permit the undertaking of a Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) to identify the Net
Present Values (NPV) or Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR) at the time of
appraisal, or even the undertaking of a simple cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA). Whilst
up-to-date demographic data is now available, the capacity to undertake robust project
appraisal to inform investment decisions remains a systemic weakness in many sectors.
In the transport sector specifically, regular traffic counts are not carried out on any level
of the network, and travel times, fleet size and composition remain uncertain. There are
similar limitations in both the electricity and water sector. As a result, neither a CBA nor
a simple CEA have been calculated either ex-ante or ex-post for this emergency
operation.

62.     While economic analysis of project activities is not possible due to data
constraints, a qualitative assessment of the economic impact of EMRP-2 activities
performed for this ICR (as detailed in Annex 4) found the project’s activities produced
improvements in quality of life, livelihoods, health, and education through improvements
in transport, electrification and water supply and sanitation. The analysis found that
provision of basic services in most affected areas would have further declined from the
already serious post-conflict situation, making the population worse off than it is “with
the project”.

63.     The efficiency of the project can be evaluated on the basis of how effectively the
GoA and Bank prioritized funding of activities to support the PDOs and the Priority
Phase for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Programs that allowed for parallel financing
of project activities by the GoA. The focus on supporting agriculture and agricultural
marketing by funding rehabilitation of rural roads and other agricultural facilities was an
efficient prioritization of available resources as per the government framework aiming for
the revival of the agricultural economy for diversification of revenues and restoration of
livelihoods. Likewise, in the context of reconstruction, it was sensible for the GoA and
Bank to prioritize rehabilitation and construction of water and electrification
infrastructure in peri-urban areas affected by war after the GoA had moved forward with
parallel financing of similar public works in urban centers.

64.     The network of rural roads financed by the project generates major direct and
indirect net benefits. Increased traffic reflects the decreased costs of travel resulting from
road rehabilitation. This brings increases in agricultural productivity, improved access to
markets, and increased overall access to services for the rural population. Specifically,
the traffic levels increased from nearly non-existent levels in the post-conflict




                                             18
environment to almost 1,000 vehicles per day on the 42 km section rehabilitated under
the EMRP-2 between Kuito and Chilonda in Bié province. 32

65.      The water sector was responsible for major improvements and expansion of the
number of individuals benefitting from water services. For instance, in the peri-urban
areas of Malanje the network of pipes targeted by the project increased from 50km to
77.6 km. In addition, considering that some activities planned for EMRP-2 were funded
and completed by the GoA, the project used the efficiencies gained by not funding these
activities, to finance commitments made under the EMRP-1 implementation that would
have to be cancelled at closing of the EMRP-1 and moved them to EMRP-2 (See Annex
1 Table C).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.      The overall outcome rating for the project is Moderately Satisfactory based on
relevance, efficiency, achievement of the PDOs, and the delivery of interventions within
the framework of program design far in excess of original targets. See prior sections for
details.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

67.    The poverty reduction impact of the EMRP-2 is palpable. The number of families
with access to water and electricity improved their livelihoods by increasing their ability
to provide services. Access to health centers, school and markets for rural communities
increased with the rehabilitation of the rural roads. EMRP-2 has been the Bank’s main
vehicle for contributing and supporting Angola in rebuilding the foundation for long-term
reconstructing, improving access to social services and reestablishing the state
administrations. EMRP-2 strengthened the initial engagement between the Bank and
Angola that led to sector specific operations subsequently in agriculture, water, health,
education and local development. 33

68.    The PDO targets were set at sector level and did not focus explicitly on the wider
themes of poverty reduction, gender aspects and social development. Nonetheless, The
EMRP-2, in partnership with the UNDP, supported decentralization and local governance
capacity. Training was carried out in several topics ranging from micro-entrepreneurship
for individuals to participatory planning cycles for municipal representatives. In
partnership with the Ministry of Family and Woman Platform for Action, the EMRP-2


32
   Traffic count provided by the road construction contractor, taken on August 8, 2013, at 60 percent
completion of the works.
33
   See Market Oriented Smallholder Agriculture (P093699), Water Sector Institutional Development
(P096360), Municipal Health Service Strengthening (P111840), Local Development Program (P105101) ,
and Learning for All Project (P122700).



                                                 19
supported training for public servants in 73 municipalities in gender assessments for a
pro-poor and gender sensitive municipal plans and budget. 34 Vocation training for youth
groups in response to high youth unemployment in selected municipalities 35 was also
supported by the project.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

69.     Strengthening institutional capacity ensured sustainability of the project
investments. Thought the implementation of the EMRP-2, institutional strengthening was
noted amongst the implementing agencies: (a) improved capacity in procurement and
financial management; (b) enhanced coordination; and (c) increased usage of M&E
systems for the preparation of new projects. For instance, the improved capacity at
Direcção Nacional de Águas – (Water National Directorate) led to significant increase at
the delivery of water services under the project and the elaboration of water specific
framework Água para Todos (Water for All) aim for major expansion in access to potable
water and services by 2017.

70.    At the local level, the UNDP coordinated several activities under Component C to
promote sector development strategies and strengthening of human and institutional
capacity through a Decentralization and Local Governance Project (18 months period)
that provided training in planning, budgeting, reporting, and management at 163
municipalities.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
71.     No beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshop were conducted.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

72.    Post-conflict conditions existing at the time of EMRP-2 appraisal have been
replaced by a fast-growing middle-income economy. Despite continued high levels of
poverty, inequality, and infrastructure deficit, the GoA has been building on its record of
successful self-managed development. Angola’s national capacity has been strengthened
and authorities continue to set visions for an equitable and inclusive development
captured in three overarching strategic frameworks: (a) Vision 2025; (b) National
Development Plan (2013-2017); and (c) Poverty Reduction Plan (Estratégia de Combate
a Pobreza) (ECP) (2010-2015).

73.     Throughout the EMRP-2, the GoA has shown its strong commitment to the
project activities. The GoA has developed sector-specific initiatives such as Water For


34
   Page 10, Decentralization and Local Governance Project – Final Report, dated July 2013, produced by
United Nations Development Program in Luanda.
35
   Page 10, Decentralization and Local Governance Project – Final Report, dated July 2013, produced by
United Nations Development Program in Luanda.



                                                  20
All, and Energy For All, funding major expansion in access to public goods and services.
For instance, the Ministry of Energy and Water, has an ambitious Action Plan for Energy
and Water Sectors, 2013-2017 and it is investing US$5.9 billion to expand and upgrade
water pump and purification systems to supply 120 municipalities by 2017. Thus, risks
to the EMRP-2 development outcomes are considered modest.

5.         Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1        Bank Performance
(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74.     Bank Performance during project entry was moderately unsatisfactory. Originally
conceived as one all-encompassing emergency multi-sector recovery operation to restore
essential services in a post-conflict environment, the EMRP was subsequently divided
into two overlapping projects due to IDA 14 resources constraints. Approval delays
because of the evaluation of non-concessional borrowing by the Bank also contributed to
limiting the full utilization of the project resources.

(b)        Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     The Bank team displayed flexibility and worked in partnership with the GoA,
adjusting the project activities funded by EMRP-2 within the framework of the PPRRP
while maintaining the project objectives. This lead to the successful achievement of the
PDOs and lasting results for the country.

76.     As an emergency operation, the supervision missions were planned twice a year,
but due to the persistent challenges in obtaining entry visas for Angola even with the
United Nations Laissez-Passer (UNLPs), missions were irregular. The ISRs were
prepared in a timely fashion after each mission. The few supervision aide-memoires filed
in the Bank’s document repository identified the key problems and agreement action
plans to address them.

77.     The Bank team overcame several challenges during implementation. Starting at
effectiveness 36 the Bank team identified the need to restructure the EMRP-2 to reflect the
project changes accordingly. Therefore, Bank performance during the project supervision
is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c)        Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.        Despite the general difficulties of implementation in a post conflict environment,


36
     Starting with ISR #3 and continuing to ISR #9.



                                                      21
the Bank team (a) responded promptly to the country needs by preparing an emergency
recovery project, although the scope of recovery efforts contributed for the complexity
during the implementation phase, (b) was flexible, cooperative and proactive in allowing
adjustment in activities; (c) provided innovative supervision strategies and solutions, and
(d) ensured adequate transition arrangements by transferring on-going activities from
EMRP-1 to EMRP-2 while maintaining the focus on the PDOs. Nonetheless, (a)
extensive delays in procurement approvals, (b) failures to complete a mid-term review
and (c) inability to formalize responses to the changing needs of the Borrower by
restructuring the project early on justify the Bank’s overall performance rating of
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance
(a)    Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.    The GoA had a framework for its rehabilitation and reconstruction under the
PPRRP. The authorities were proactive in adjusting how to finance the programed
activities displaying considerable commitment during project preparation and
implementation of the EMRP-2. The GoA was flexible with resources of funding the
PPRRP, whenever the project implementation was lagging the GoA identified new
activities to be funded by the EMRP-2 consistent with its PDOs and the PPRRP
framework. Although the GoA considered the EMRP-2 an integral part of the PPRRP, it
did not recognize the need to process a restructuring of the project in order to formalize
the changes. In addition, the GoA was unable to facilitate the provision of timely entry
visas for consultants, contractors and Bank staff supporting the implementation of
EMRP-2. Therefore, the performance of the Government during the project is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

(b)   Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     The Project Management and Implementation Unit for the EMRP-2 was promptly
put in place under the guidance of the Vice-Minister of Planning. Initially staffed with a
cadre of internationally and nationally recruited staff, it provided good guidance to all the
implementing agencies considering the complex, post-conflict environment in the
country. Coordination amongst line ministries and local agencies were sometimes
challenging, but the implementing agencies benefitted from training, office equipment
and technical assistance to carry out specialized sector studies. The PMIU played a key
role in identifying priority activities financed by the EMRP-2 and initial shortcomings in
procurement were overcome. Therefore the rating for PMIU is Moderately Satisfactory.

(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.    Based on the combination of the two ratings above, the overall Borrower
performance is Moderately Satisfactory.



                                             22
6.     Lessons Learned:

82.    The preparation and implementation of the EMRP-2 has provided a number of
lessons for similar operations in future:

83.    Project complexity and its impact on implementation progress. There are both
external pressures, the critical needs in many areas, and internal incentives, constraints on
resources to prepare and support multiple emergency operations that can lead to the
preparation of overly complex projects. This is despite all the evidence indicating that
complex projects are harder to implement, take longer, and disburse slower. These
problems are exacerbated in a post-conflict environment, with widespread and systemic
weakness in the public agencies, and limited experience in working with the World Bank,
or any other development partner. This lesson is once again clearly highlighted in this
case – emergency operations should be designed to be as simple as possible, with clear
and unambiguous implementing arrangements, facilitating prompt implementation.

84.    Emergency Operations in a Post Conflict – Oil Rich Country should also provide
a framework for parallel finance: A second key lesson from this project is that when
preparing an emergency operation, consideration should be given to not only the
immediate pressing needs, but also to the provision of a broad framework for a wider
investment program that could be supported from public investment, or other
development partners in parallel. This does not necessarily imply greater complexity, but
a more strategic assessment of needs, and a designed response to those needs.

85.     Emergency Projects are designed to be implemented quickly. An emergency
operation, by definition, is designed to meet urgent and pressing needs, and as such are
usually implemented within a period of 36 months. If there is a lengthy delay in
preparation, approval or effectiveness, amounting to a significant proportion of that
period, consideration should be given to converting the emergency operation into a more
traditional investment operation, focusing on the emerging mid-term needs of the
country.

86.     Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Key performance indicators should always
be designed to assess sector performance, and should be well matched with the PDOs and
adequately monitored during project implementation. It is critical to reach agreement
with the client on a well-designed M&E results framework with emphasis on: (a) good
linkages between the objectives and indicators; (b) ensuring reliability of data used; (b)
conducting appropriate baseline studies; (c) setting realistic target values within the
agreed timeframe; and (d) ensuring the clear responsibilities of the key staff who will
drive this process.

87.     The lack of a Midterm Review proved to be a missed opportunity for adjustment.
EMRP-2 did not benefit from a midterm review and it was not restructured. Just after
effectiveness it was clear that the project would benefit from a restructuring. In addition,
several changes in TTL and in the PMIU leadership left the project in a hiatus. A
midterm review in 2010 would have forced the new TTL and PMIU to address issues
flagged on the ISRs and take corrective measures in the components and indicators to


                                             23
reflect the reality.

88.      Project Design and Flexibility. Flexible, innovative and coordinated responses are
critical in a post conflict-oil rich country where the Government can fund many activities
but lacks the planning and implementation expertise. This project had broad objectives to
allow for adjustments and accommodations of a changing environment, while using Bank
guidelines and standards to enhance capacity and experience.

89.      Close coordination between the Bank and Government. Challenges with
complexity and delays and the changed circumstances and environment throughout the
life of the project, foster the close partnership between the Bank and Government team,
working together to identify new activities for the project. This allowed for the
prioritization of the project funds for activities that would provide maximum result.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/ Implementing/ Agencies/ Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not Applicable

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                            24
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


            Table 1.1: Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
(a) Project Disbursements (GoA amounts estimated from project documents)
                                                                         IDA            GoA
                          Cost of component                                                         Total
                                                                        Funding      (estimated)


 A. Rural Development and Delivery of Social Services                                                $42.20
 1. Rural Development                                                     $11.90          $19.20     $31.10
 2. Agriculture                                                           $11.10                     $11.10


 B. Rehabilitation and reconstruction of critical infrastructure                                    $123.83
 1. Transport                                                                             $26.50     $26.50
 2. Roads and Bridges                                                                                 $0.00
 3. Electricity                                                           $16.20          $35.43     $51.63
 4. Water                                                                 $33.90                     $33.90
 5. Urban Infrastructure & Services                                        $0.30          $11.50     $11.80


 C. Sector development strategies and strengthening of human and institutional capacity               $2.50
 Sector Dev. Strategies                                                    $1.90                      $1.90
 Environmental. and Social Assessments                                                                $0.00
 Training Sector Ministries                                                $0.60                      $0.60
 Decentralization                                                                                     $0.00


 D. Management Monitoring and Evaluation of project implementation                                    $2.10
 Operational Cost                                                          $1.50                      $1.50
 TA and Training                                                           $0.60                      $0.60


 Total Project Disbursement                                               $78.00          $92.63    $170.63


(b) Financing
                                        Appraisal           Actual      Percentage
   Source of          Type of                                                          Percentage
                                      Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD       of
    Funds           cofinancing                                                        of Revised
                                         millions)         millions)    Appraisal
International
Development
                                         $102.00           $78.00          $0.77          $0.46
Association
(IDA)
                    Counterpart
Borrower                                 $30.00            $92.63          $0.23          $0.54
                      Funds


                                                   25
 UNDP                 Parallel            $0.50               $0.00           $0.00          $0.00
 AFD*                 Parallel            $0.50               $0.00           $0.00          $0.00
 Total                                   $133.00           $170.63
* Funding did not materialized

                  Table 1.2: Activities moved from EMRP-1 to EMRP-2
 Description                                                   Firm/Consultant        Value of Contract
 Works ( Category 1a)                                                                   $     6,216,801.94
 Construction and Rehabilitation of EDAs at the province of
                                                                      SAFRI, LDA            $1,761,859.66
 Bié (Kuito, Camacupa, Catabola e Chinguar)
 Construction and Rehabilitation of EDAs at the province of
 Malanje (Municipalities of Cacuso, Malanje, Caculama,                IMOVIAS               $1,722,547.00
 Kiwaba Nzoge)
 Construction and Rehabilitation of EDAs at the province of
                                                                      SAFRI, LDA              $773,157.80
 Malanje (Municipalities of Cangandala)
 Construction and Rehabilitation of EDAs at the province of
                                                                TRANSPORTE A & B              $136,464.00
 Malanje (Municipalities of KALANDULA)
 Construction and Rehabilitation of EDAs at the province of
                                                                      POLIOBRA              $1,822,773.48
 Bié e Huambo (Andulo, Nharea e Chianga Huambo)
 Consultant Services ( Category 3)                                                             $1,078,427
 Supervision EDAs in Bié: Kamacupa, Kuito Chinguar e           Arqº Nelson
                                                                                                     $38,240
 Catabola                                                      Antunes
 Supervision EDAs in Bié: Kamacupa, Kuito Chinguar e           Engº Anastasio
                                                                                                     $10,264
 Catabola                                                      Bongo
 Supervision EDAs: Cacuso, Caculama, Malanje, Kiwaba
                                                               Arqº Nelson Antunes                   $83,476
 Nzoge
                                                               Engº Manuel
 Supervision EDAs Andulo, Nharea, Chianga Huambo                                                     $81,570
                                                               Fonseca
 Supervision of rural roads, 200kn in Bié province – SAI       SAI India                         $484,929
 Erosion Control Study of Moxico                               NIP, SA                           $379,948
 Goods (Category 5)                                                                              $962,477
 Cars for PMIU - UNOPS                                         UNOPS                             $100,196
 School Material                                               AGMIN ITALY                        $12,281
 12 seed processor machines                                                                      $850,000
 TOTAL                                                                                         $8,257,706




                                                    26
                                                                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                 Table 2.1: The list of activities agreed at project appraisal and the output achieved at Project closing

                                              Co
             Indicators Name                        Baseline (2007)           Target                Agreed                               Comments
                                              re
                                                                PROJECT DEVELOMENT OBJECTIVES
PDO 1. Improve rural access to markets in specific areas with high agricultural potential that have been affected by the conflict.


Kilometers in good condition for targeted
                                                          0km                 600km                  200km               373 km in Malange and 130km in Bié completed
roads in selected provinces


Agriculture Infrastructed

                                                                             a. Malanje Province
                                                                                             Cacuso
                                                                                                                     COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             (rehabilitation)
                                                                                             Calandula
                                                                                                                     COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             (rehabilitation)
                                                                                             Caculama
                                                                                                                     COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             (rehabilitation)
                                                                                             Malanje
                                                                                             (construction) IDA      COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             and IIA
                                                                                             Kiwaba Nzoge
                                                                                                                     COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             (Construction)
                                                                                             Cangandala
                                                                                                                     COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             (Construction)
                                                                               b. Bié Province
                                                                                             Nharea
                                                                                                                     COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                             (Construction)




                                                                                              27
                                              Co
             Indicators Name                       Baseline (2007)            Target              Agreed                                 Comments
                                              re
                                                                                            Andulo
                                                                                                                   COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            (Construction)
                                                                                            Camacupa
                                                                                                                   COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            (Construction)
                                                                                            Catabola
                                                                                                                   COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            (Construction)
                                                                                            Chinguar
                                                                                                                   COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            (Construction)
                                                                                            Kuito (Construction)   COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                               c. Huambo Province (University Angostinho Neto)
                                                                                             Seeds Institute       COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            Agriculture
                                                                                                                   COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            Research Institute
                                                                                            Agriculture
                                                                                            Development            COMPLETED-Transferred from EMRP-1, not in the ISR
                                                                                            Institute
Medium and low-voltage distribution
                                                   Only about half      Rehabilitation      Electricity to the
systems in N’Dalatando, Uige, Malanje,                                                                               67% completed, will connect approximately 100,000
                                                   of the installed     complete and        peri-urban area of
Luena, Kuito and Luanda rehabilitated and                                                                           households and businesses in peri-urban areas of Uíge,
                                                   capacity is          service operating   Kuito, Uíge and
operating continuously (reduction in power                                                                                           Luena and Kuito
                                                   operational          continuously        Luena
losses TBD).
                                                                          40,000 (2,500
Number of people in Malanje with access to
                                                                        households and 40                          System being managed by local authorities: 43kms pipes,
improved water services delivered through
                                                           0              standpipes), as                            3200 household connections, 45 standpipes, 200.000
house connections and rehabilitated
                                                                         monitored in the                                   beneficiaries, as monitored in the ISR
standpipes rises.
                                                                               ISR
Number of people in N’Dalatando with                                                                               Delivered to local management since 2010. Completed:
                                                                          59,000 (1,600
access to improved water services delivered                                                                        Intake station, completion of water treatment, 5000m3
                                                           0            households and 93
through house connections and rehabilitated                                                                            reservoir, 42kms pipes, 93 standpipes; 150,000
                                                                           standpipes)
standpipes rises                                                                                                                        beneficiaries




                                                                                             28
                                              Co
            Indicators Name                        Baseline (2007)            Target              Agreed                          Comments
                                              re
                                                   World Bank
Systems of procurement and financial                                    Procurement risk
                                                   procurement risk                                           Procurement capacity of the ministries working with
management in the ministries and agencies                               assessment shows
                                                   assessment                                                     Bank projected has improved. There was no
involved in the project improved, according                             risk to have
                                                   shows risk to be                                                 misprocurement throughout the project.
to World Bank assessment                                                declined.
                                                   high
                                                   No fiscal transfer
                                                                        Fiscal transfer
Fiscal transfer mechanisms for                     mechanisms in
                                                                        mechanisms being                       Included in the MOP, page 35. Not monitored and
decentralization being implemented in              board use                                      Dropped
                                                                        implemented in 3                                          dropped.
targeted provinces                                 throughout the
                                                                        selected provinces
                                                   country
Number of people in urban areas provided
with improved water services under the        X            0                                      150,000              Values refer only to N'Dalatando
project
                                                    INTERMEDIATE RESULTS INDICATOR BY COMPONENT
A. Rural Development and Delivery of Social Services
                                                                                                            373 km in province of Malange (funded by GoA) and 130
A.1 Feeder roads    600 Km of feeder               0 Km                      600 Km
                                                                                                  200 km    km of rural roads in the province of Bié (funded by the
rehabilitated       roads rehabilitated            rehabilitated           rehabilitated
                                                                                                            EMRP-2) were rehabilitated
                    Roads rehabilitated,                                                                    Core indicator added 2009 as a Bank wide. Monitored but
                                              X                              600 Km               200 Km
                    Rural (Kilometers)                                                                      not formally added to the project.
                    Kuito-Chicala-Capolo
                                                                                                            87% completed Bridge installed. Raining season delayed
                    with one bridge                        0                                      58 Km
                                                                                                            the completion- GoA will finance the completion
                    (58Kms)
                    Chicala-Mutumbo                                                                         54% completed. Raining season delayed the completion-
                    with one bridge (63                    0                                      63 Km     GoA will finance the completion. Bridge purchased but
                    Km),                                                                                    not installed

                    Kuito-Thrumba-                                                                          70% completed. Raining season delayed the completion -
                    Chilonda with one                      0                                      40 Km     GoA will finance the completion. Bridge purchased but
                    bridge (39.50 Km)                                                                       not installed




                                                                                             29
                                                Co
             Indicators Name                         Baseline (2007)        Target               Agreed                         Comments
                                                re

                      Nharea-Catabola with                                                                70% completed. One bridge completed other yet to be
                                                           0                                     50 Km    installed. Raining season delayed the completion- GoA
                      two bridges.
                                                                                                          will finance the completion.
B. Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Critical Infrastructure
                                                                        150 Km of high
B.1. Trunk roads      150 Km of trunk roads              0 Km
                                                                          traffic road            0 km               DROPPED - Funded by the GoA
rehabilitated         rehabilitated                   rehabilitated
                                                                         rehabilitated
                      Roads rehabilitated,
                                                                                                            Core indicator added 2009 as a Bank wide exercise.
                      Non-rural                 X                                                 0 km
                                                                                                                               DROPPED
                      (Kilometers)
B.2. Access to
                      Water network serving
water in peri-                                        No baseline                                         Included in the MOP, page 35. Not in the ISR. Funded by
                      the peri-urban areas of                          No target provided
urban areas of                                         provided                                                            the GoA - DROPPED
                      Luanda rehabilitated
Luanda increased

B.3. Access to                                                                                            Malanje: 77.6 Km network, 4,600 home connections, 103
                      Kilometers of the
water in the three                                                     Malanje: 50 Km;                    standpipes, (400.000 Beneficiaries) ; Kuito 60 Km urban
                      water network in
provincial capitals                                      0 Km           N'Dalatando 35                    network, Reservoir of 4000m3, 2000 home connections,
                      Malanje, Kuito, and
of Malanje, Kuito,                                    rehabilitated    km; No target for                    60 standpipes (150.000 Beneficiaries); N'Dalatando:
                      N’Dalatando
and N’Dalatando                                                             Kuito                            water capture, water treatment facility, Reservoir of
                      rehabilitated.
increased.                                                                                                    5000m3; 93 standpipes (150.000 Beneficiaries)

                      New piped household
                      water connections that
                      are resulting from the    X          0                 4,100                                                 8,200
  Core indicator      project intervention
  added 2009 at       (Number)
   Bank wide          Malanje                   X          0                 2,500                                                 4,600
                      N'Dalatando               X          0                1,600                                                  1,600
                                                                       Not monitored in
                      Kuito                                0                                                                       2,000
                                                                           the ISR




                                                                                            30
                                               Co
             Indicators Name                        Baseline (2007)          Target               Agreed                         Comments
                                               re
                     Improved community
                     water points
                     constructed or            X           0                   93                                                    256
                     rehabilitated under the
                     project (Number)
                     Malanje                   X           0                   40                                                    103
                     N'Dalatando               X           0                    0                                                     93
                     Kuito                                 0                   40                                                     60
C. Sector Development Strategies and Strengthening of Human and Institutional Capacities
                                                                        Strategies for the
                                                                           Transport,
C.1. Sector          Sector strategies for
                                                                         electricity and
strategies provide   electricity, roads, and         No strategies                                         The GoA drafted several sector strategies: Water for All,
                                                                           water sector
the basis for new    water prepared and               produced.                                                    Education for All, Electricity for All
                                                                          complete and
investments          approved.
                                                                        approved by the
                                                                          government.
C.2. Capacity of
Ministry of
                     Capacity Ministry of
Electricity and                                                                                               The Ministry of Energy and Water has an ambitious
                     Electricity and Water          Capacity is weak        Capacity is
Water to carry out                                                                                           action plan for sectors with the investment of US$5.9
                     to carry out public            according to wb     stronger according
public                                                                                                           billion to expand and upgrade water pump and
                     expenditure tracking             assessment       to Bank assessment
expenditure                                                                                                purification systems to supply 120 municipalities by 2017
                     studies improved.
tracking studies
improved.
D. Management, Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation
                     Capacity of Ministries
D.1. Management,     and agencies                                                                            There has been much improvement in the capacity of
Monitoring and       participating in the           Capacity is weak        Capacity is                     ministries to plan. However, it was strengthened at the
Evaluation of        project to implement           according to wb     stronger according                  CPS approved in September 2013, that building human
Project              the project                      assessment       to Bank assessment                     and institutional capacity remains a priority for the
Implementation       transparently                                                                                          authorities and the Bank.
                     improved.




                                                                                             31
      Annex 3: Evaluation of the Emergency Multisector Recovery Program


1.      The Emergency Multisector Recovery Program (EMRP) supported the
Government of Angola (GoA) to implement a Poverty Reduction Strategy 37 (PRSP) that
included a Priority Phase of Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program (PPRRP) for
2003-08 and later extended the program to 2011. The EMRP was designed and appraised
as a single project but due to less than expected funding under IDA 13, the EMRP was
split into two concomitant operations: EMRP-1 38 funded by IDA13, and EMRP-2
financed under IDA 14.

2.      EMRP aimed to build the foundation for long-term reconstruction, economic
rehabilitation, and the reestablishment of state administration throughout consolidate
peace, and reestablish state administration and public services to the provinces most
affected by the war: Bié, Huambo, Moxico, Luanda Norte and Luanda Sul, Uíge, Cuando
Cubango, and Malanje. The specific objectives of the program were to assist the
government to: (a) improve rural incomes and enhance food security in the provinces
most affected by the conflict; (b) improve access to essential education and health
services in the provinces most affected by the conflict; (c) reconstruct and rehabilitate
critical infrastructure; and (d) strengthen capacity of government at all levels to
formulate, prepare, implement, and manage medium and long-term development
programs.

3.       EMRP-1 focused on supporting activities that address the most urgent needs and
could be implemented quickly. These included: (a) activities to restart agriculture,
particularly production and multiplication of seeds and planting material); (b) provision
of essential drugs, logistical support, and refresher courses for nurses and auxiliary nurses
to improve health services; (c) provision of teaching and learning materials and assistance
to initiate teachers’ training; and (d) support to restore water services in Luanda and three
provincial capitals. Additionally, EMRP-1 provided: (a) technical assistance and capacity
building for sector ministries and agencies involved in implementing the program and the
project; (b) initial training programs; and (c) technical assistance to build local capacity
to prepare for decentralization; and (d) preparation of the environmental and social
impact assessment for the overall program and preparatory activities for Phase 2, such as
detailed designs and tender documents. The EMRP-1 included a Grant in the amount of
SDR 16.9 million (US$25.8 million equivalent) and a Credit 39 of SDR 16.3 million
(US$24.9 million equivalent).

4.      EMRP-2 focused on upgrading infrastructure, supporting rehabilitation or



37
   http://www.angolaemb.se/Actualidades/Combate%20a%20pobreza.pdf, accessed on March 18, 2013
38
   The ICR for EMRP-1 (Report No .00001872) was completed in December 30. 2011
39
   The Credit was on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, including 10 years grace period, and
service charge at 0.75%.



                                                    33
construction of feeder roads, trunk roads (including bridges), electricity services, rural
water supply, water supply in a provincial capital, and urban infrastructure. It would also
support the preparation of the medium-term sector strategies, capacity building,
decentralization and local development, and continue support for program and project
management (a) facilitate agricultural marketing in specific areas with high agricultural
potential that have been affected by the conflict, (b) reconstruct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure, and (c) strengthen capacity of participating ministries and agencies for
improved governance and transparency and of local governments for future
decentralization. EMRP-2 was funded by a Credit 40 in the amount of SDR67.5 million
(US$102 million equivalent).

5.      EMRP-1 and EMRP-2 had extensive delays due to: unrealistic implementation
schedule compounded by unforeseen technical difficulties; delay in selecting the
contractors/consultants due to the lack of procurement capacity; weak coordination
among several sectors under the PMIU in a multi-sector environment; difficult access to
project sites on account of security problems and road transit difficulties; and TTL
transitions that were not smooth and contributed to procurement delays.

6.       Nonetheless, the PMIU and Bank’s team cooperation, innovation and flexibility
allowed for the best use of the project finances for achieving the PDOs. Transfer of
activities between EMRP-1 and EMRP-2 allowed for the completion of committed
contracts. The Government of Angola was extremely committed to rehabilitation and
contributed much more than the required counterpart fund.

7.     The social benefits of the activities implemented by the EMRP are already
apparent but it has not yet reached its full potential. But one can already see evidence by
the road side, attracting new residents, emerging rural markets with a wide variety of
produce and new business for transportation of such produce, use of house water
connections to start business and a general rise in income in the rural areas.

                          Table 3.1: EMRP Development Objectives

                     PDO                        Relevance      Efficacy      Efficiency       Outcome Rating
To help to build the foundation for long-term   Substantial   Substantial   Modest          Moderately Satisfactory
reconstruction, economic rehabilitation, and
the reestablishment of state administration
throughout the country.
                                                      EMRP-1
Specific Objective 1                            Substantial Substantial     Modest          Moderately Satisfactory
To assist the government to (a) improve rural
incomes and enhance food security in the
provinces most affected by the conflict.
Specific Objective 2                            Substantial   Substantial   Substantial     Satisfactory
To assist the government to, (b) improve



40
  The Credit was on hard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years, including 10 years grace period, and
service charge at 4.75%.



                                                    34
access to essential education and health
services in the provinces most affected by
the conflict,

Specific Objective 3                                Substantial     Modest          Modest           Moderately
To assist the government to                                                                          Unsatisfactory
reconstruct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure,

Specific Objective 4                                Substantial     Substantial     Modest           Moderately Satisfactory
To assist the government to strengthen
capacity of government at all levels to
formulate, prepare, implement, and manage
medium and long-term development
programs.
Rating for EMRP-1                                   Substantial     Substantial     Modest           Moderately
                                                                                                     Satisfactory
EMRP-2
Specific Objective 1                                 Substantial     Substantial      Modest               Satisfactory
Facilitate agricultural marketing in specific
areas with high agricultural potential that
have been affected by the conflict.
Specific Objective 2                                 Substantial     Substantial      Modest               Satisfactory
Reconstruct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure

Specific Objective 3                                 Substantial       Modest         Modest         Moderately Satisfactory
Strengthen capacity of government at all
levels to formulate, prepare, implement, and
manage medium and long-term development
programs
Rating for EMRP-2                                   Substantial     Substantial       Modest               Moderately
                                                                                                           Satisfactory



Table 3.2: EMRP-1 activities agreed at appraisal and the output achieved at closing

                                                 Outputs achieved at Project
                 Activities                                                                           Remarks
                                                          Closing

 A. Rural Development and Delivery of Social Services
 1. Agriculture

       Production of basic and pre-basic        120 tons of seeds procured and
                                                                                     Completed
       seeds for farmers                        delivered to farmers


                                                The CESO CI has provided
                                                technical assistance to the three
       Improving knowledge by undertaking       Institutes of the component of
                                                                                     Partially completed
       strategic studies                        Agriculture until 28th February,
                                                2011, corresponding to a cycle 1.
                                                Cycle 2 was moved to Phase 2




                                                         35
                                            Started in Phase 1 and moved to
     Rehabilitation of EDA                                                            Moved to EMRP-2
                                            Phase 2

                                            10 SENSE technicians benefit from
     Capacity building for technicians                                                Partially completed
                                            training in Israel

                                            30 Computers and 30 Printers were
                                            acquired for EDAs.                        The goods were purchased in 2006. It’s are in
     Acquisition of agriculture equipment                                             use in the Agriculture Component, in the
     and inputs                                                                       Provinces of Luanda, Malanje, Huambo and
                                            6 trucks, 2 tractors, 16 pickup cars,     Bié.
                                            5 jeeps 4x4 and 20 motorcycles

2. Health


                                            Four (4) ambulances, four (4) SAV,
                                            eight (8) bicycles and eight (8)
     Increasing the number of ambulances                                              Completed
                                            motorbikes delivered to Malanje,
                                            Kwanza-Norte, Bié and Moxico


                                            i) Training Workshop on Medicines
                                            Management and Logistics; (ii)
                                            Training of Hemotherapy
     Training of health care providers                                                Completed
                                            Technicians; (iii) part of training for
                                            First Line Health Units Managers
                                            held in Moxico.

     Improving child health care            Moved to Phase 2                          Dropped
                                            Lots 1, 2 and 3 for medicine
                                            acquisition for Health Centers and
                                                                                      Completed
                                            Posts, and Referral Units were
                                            acquired:
                                            Malanje Province received: 1) 375
                                            Kits of medicines for Health
                                            Centers; 2) 1505 Kits of medicines        Completed
                                            of Health Posts; 3) 135 Kits of
                                            medicines for Referral Centers;
                                            Kuanza-Norte Province received:
                                            1) 348 kits of medicines for Health
     Providing essential drugs kits to      Centers; 2) 735 kits of medicines for     Completed
     health centers                         Health Posts; 3) 85 kits of
                                            medicines for Referral Centers;
                                            Bié Province received: 1) 290 kits
                                            of medicines for health centers; 2)
                                            560 kits of medicines for health          Completed
                                            posts and 3) 51 kits of medicines for
                                            Referral Centers;
                                            Moxico Province received: 1) 448
                                            kits of medicines for health centers,
                                            2) 1080 kits of medicines for health      Completed
                                            posts; and 3) 113 kits of medicines
                                            for Referral Centers.
     Training health care technicians       Moved to Phase 2                          Dropped
     Strengthening health information
                                            Dropped                                   Sector did not show interested
     system
3. Education




                                                      36
                                                                                      The sector did not cooperate although the
      Training new teachers                    Dropped                                consultant for that was identified and a report
                                                                                      and training manual prepared.

                                               Pedagogical materials supply: A
                                               total of 348.183 books were
                                               acquired for various subjects,
                                               namely: a) Malanje Province 74.945
      Providing student guides                 books; b) Bié Province 111.175         Completed
                                               books; c) Uige Province 70.111
                                               books; d) Moxico Province 44.758
                                               books and e) Kuanza-Norte 47.194
                                               books, for 1st to 6th grades.

                                               A total of 617,072 student kits were
                                               purchased from, as follows: a)
                                               132,901 student kits for the
                                               Province of Malanje b) 196,890 kits
      Providing text books, other supplies
                                               for the Province of Bié, c) 124,399    Completed
      and equipment
                                               kits for the Province of Uige, d) 79
                                               204 kits for the Province Moxico e)
                                               83,678 kits for the Province of
                                               Kwanza-Norte
      Strengthening institutional capacity
      through data collection, planning, and   Partially completed.                   Partially completed
      management

B. Rehabilitation and reconstruction of critical infrastructure.
      Water supply and distribution in
                                               Completed                              Completed
      Malanje
      Water supply and distribution in
                                               Completed                              Completed
      Kuito
      Water supply and distribution in
                                               Completed                              Completed
      N’Dalatando

C. Sector Development and strengthening of Human and institutional capacities

      Providing technical advisory services    Not conducted                          Sectors did not show interested
      Training program                         Not conducted                          Sectors did not show interested
      Capacity building activities             Not conducted                          Sectors did not show interested
      Pilot decentralization in selected
                                               partially completed                    Finalized under EMRP-2
      provinces

D. Project Management and preparation of Phase II

      Supporting M&E for the activities
                                               Completed                              Completed
      under the project
      Supporting National Demining
                                               Completed                              Completed
      Strategy Action Plan

                                               Road Studies                           Completed
       Engineering studies and preparation
        of bidding documents for Phase 2.      Erosion in Moxico                      Moved to EMRP-2
                                               Electricity in Luanda                  Moved to EMRP-2




                                                         37
Table 3.3: EMRP-2 activities agreed at appraisal and the output achieved at closing

                                           Output achieved at
                   Activities                                                       Remarks
                                             Project closing
   PDO 1: Improve rural access to markets in specific areas with high agricultural potential that have been
                                         affected by the conflict.

A. Rural Development and Delivery of Social Services
1. Rural Roads

Malanje Province

      Caculama -Cabundi (110km)                100% Completed                 GoA Parallel financing

      Malage- Mangando (158km)                 100% Completed                 GoA Parallel financing

      Calandula - Massango (105km)             100% Completed                 GoA Parallel financing

Bié Province

      Kuito-Chicala-Capolo with one bridge                        Bridge installed. Raining season delayed the
                                                87% completed
      (58Kms)                                                     completion- GoA will finance the completion

                                                                  Raining season delayed the completion- GoA
      Chicala-Mutumbo with one bridge (63
                                                54% completed     will finance the completion. Bridge purchased
      Km),
                                                                  but not installed

                                                                  Raining season delayed the completion - GoA
      Kuito-Thrumba-Chilonda with one
                                                70% completed     will finance the completion. Bridge purchased
      bridge (39.50 Km)
                                                                  but not installed

                                                                  One bridge completed other yet to be installed.
      Nharea-Catabola with two bridges (50
                                                70% completed     Raining season delayed the completion- GoA
      Km).
                                                                  will finance the completion

      Camacupa-Rigoma (50 km),                     Dropped

      Catabola-Chiuca (18 km)                      Dropped

      N'harea-Cassumbe (83 km)                     Dropped

2. Agricultural Infrastructure (transferred from EMPR1)

a. Malanje Province
      Cacuso (rehabilitation)                     Completed
      Calandula (rehabilitation)                  Completed
      Caculama (rehabilitation)                   Completed
      Malanje (construction) IDA and IIA          Completed
      Kiwaba Nzoge (Construction)                 Completed
      Cangandala (Construction)                   Completed



                                                 38
b. Bié Province
       Nharea (Construction)                          Completed
       Andulo (Construction)                          Completed
       Camacupa (Construction)                        Completed
       Catabola (Construction)                        Completed
       Chinguar (Construction)                        Completed
       Kuito (Construction)                           Completed

c. Huambo Province (University Angostinho Neto)

       Seeds Institute                                Completed
       Agriculture Research Institute                 Completed
       Agriculture Development Institute              Completed
                              PDO 2: Reconstruct and rehabilitate critical infrastructure.
B. Rehabilitation and reconstruction of critical infrastructure
1. Transport

       Intermodal Transport Study                      Dropped         No longer a priority for MoT

2. Roads and Bridges
       Lucala-Negage high traffic (150km)             Completed        GoA Parallel Funding
3. Electricity: rehabilitation of medium and low-voltage distribution systems in the provincial capital
       N'Dalatando - Urban                            Completed        GoA Parallel Funding
       Uige - Urban                                   Completed        GoA Parallel Funding

       Uíge - Peri-Urban                            90% complete       connecting over 3.990 families

       Malanje - Urban                                Completed        GoA Parallel Funding
       Luena - Urban                                  Completed        GoA Parallel Funding

       Luena Peri-urban                             90% Complete       connecting over 2311 families

       Kuito - Urban                                  Completed        GoA Parallel Funding

       Kuito Peri-Urban                             90% complete       Connecting over 3584 families

4. Water Supply

       N'Dalatando - works for water system                            This activity was not fully finance by EMRP1,
                                                      Completed
       (Lute 1)                                                        approximately 30% was financed by EMRP2.

       N'Dalatando - works for water system
                                                      Completed        Delivered to local management since 2010
       (Lute 2)

                                                                       Activity procured under EMRP1 but financed
       Malanje -works for water system
                                                      Completed        by EMRP2. System being managed by local
       (Lote1)
                                                                       authorities

       Malanje -works for water system
                                                      Completed
       (Lote2) peri-urban




                                                    39
                                                                    Activity procured under EMRP1 but financed
                                                                    by EMRP2. At the ICR mission it was reported
      Kuito - works for water system               Completed
                                                                    that over 2000 house connections and 60
                                                                    standpipes are working

                                                                    Works will be finance under the GoA program
      Moxico -works for water system                Dropped
                                                                    "Water to All"

5. Urban Infrastructure
      Drainage & Sewage system in Luanda           Completed        GoA Parallel Funding
                                                                    Erosion study was completed and provided to
      Study of the erosion of Moxico               Completed        the National Director of National Infrastructure
                                                                    at the Ministry of Construction
                                                                    Preparation of the Tender for execution of the
      Works on the erosion of Moxico                Dropped
                                                                    works was funded by the Project.

PDO 3: Strengthen capacity of participating ministries and agencies for improved governance and transparency
                            and of local governments for future decentralization.

C. Sector development strategies and strengthening of human and institutional capacity
                                                                    National Department of Water, Ministry of
      Sector development of strategy                                Agriculture, Ministry of Territorial
                                                   Completed
      formulation                                                   Administration and several local governments
                                                                    were supported by UNDP
      Technical Assistance to sectors and
                                                   Completed
      Environment Management
      Training of sector Ministry and
                                                   Completed        Supported by UNDP
      Agencies
      Decentralization & support local
                                                   Completed        Supported by UNDP
      development
D. Management Monitoring and Evaluation of project implementation
      Technical Assistance for Project
                                                   Completed
      Management and Monitoring
      Support Project Management and
                                                   Completed
      Training
      Operating Expense and Project
                                                   Completed
      Management
      Expertise and support to demining            Completed




                                                  40
                     Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

1.      The overall objective of the EMRP was to help to build the foundation for long-
term reconstruction, economic rehabilitation, and the reestablishment of state
administration throughout Angola. The specific objectives of the program were to assist
the government to (a) improve rural incomes and enhance food security in the provinces
most affected by the conflict, (b) improve access to essential education and health
services in the same provinces, (c) reconstruct and rehabilitate critical infrastructure, and
(d) strengthen capacity of government at all levels to formulate, prepare, implement, and
manage medium and long-term development programs. These were expected to be
realized in two phases through improvements in physical infrastructure and delivery of
social services in transport, urban and water services, electricity, agriculture, health, and
education sectors in Bié, Moxico, Kwanza Norte, Luanda, Uige and Malanje provinces,
as well as the strengthening of human and institutional capacities.

2.      The economic and financial assessment of the EMRP at appraisal was not carried
out as it was not required for ERL operations. Due to the limited capacity of the
implementing agency and limited resources not yet built up in the post-conflict
environment, no data has been obtained to allow estimation of ex-post benefits and costs
either. Therefore, the net present value and economic rate of return have not been
calculated either ex-ante or ex-post this emergency operation. However, the economic
impact of the program’s primary interventions has been assessed on a qualitative basis.


3.       The below assessment focuses on the program’s largest physical interventions in
rural roads rehabilitation and water supply under the rural development and social
services (component A) and the reconstruction and rehabilitation of critical infrastructure
(component B) respectively. The analysis does not include the interventions in
agricultural, health, electricity, and education sectors due to the absence of neither
quantitative nor qualitative evidence and lack of robust M&E indicators, from which the
impact of interventions can been inferred. Likewise, the activities on capacity building,
institutional strengthening & sector development strategies (component C) and
management and M&E (component D) are not assessed due to absence of sufficient
information. However, the assessment provides some evidence on the overall wider
impacts of the program as a whole on agricultural productivity, improved access to
medical services and education, improved water supply, and improved accessibility to
transport network.
The Economic Impact of the Program

4.     At appraisal, the primary benefits of the EMRP were identified as the following
by sector:

       (a)   Health Sector: Prevention of further deterioration of health and loss of life
             of people who are living in extreme poverty by contributing to food security
             and delivery of health care and other basic services,


                                             41
          (b)   Water Sector: Restoring water supply in the provincial capitals.
          (c)   Electricity Sector: Restore electricity supply in provincial capitals and
                improve public health conditions in urban and rural areas.
          (d)   Transportation: Increased competitiveness of goods through reduction of
                transport costs, and re-integration of the country through reestablished
                transport linkages between country’s provinces.
          (e)   Rural and Agricultural Sector: Reduction of poverty among both
                agricultural producers and consumers through stimulation of agricultural
                production and reduction of costs and time of transporting food to markets.
          (f)   Capacity building: Establishment of critical conditions for better governance
                through improved legal and regulatory framework and more stable and
                effective institutions.
          (g)   Institutional strengthening: Laying out of the groundwork for future policy
                and institutional reforms and a future investment program for the country’s
                development.


5.     Overall, the ex-post program benefits included the following, inter alia: (a)
improved access to a safe source of water directly benefited the quality of life of the
population in the project areas by reducing their vulnerability to diseases related to use of
non-potable water; (b) provision of ambulance services, transport means (bicycles and
motorbikes), training workshops and kits of medicines contributed to improved health
services for the beneficiary population; (c) distributed books and student kits contributed
to improved quality of education services; and (d) provision of seed to the ex-combatants
being reintegrated to civil life reinitiated subsistence agricultural activities 41 . As
mentioned above, there were no baseline indicators at the start of the project and there
was no proper M&E conducted, making it difficult to quantify these impacts to provide
supporting evidence.

6.     The qualitative economic analysis of the EMRP focuses on the impact from the
primary and most costly interventions, which were completed, such as rural roads and
water supply by drawing on the following: (a) comparison of appraisal unit costs per
output with the actuals for major infrastructure inputs; (b) comparison of targeted benefits
at appraisal with the actual achievements; and (c) the empirical evidence from available
studies on the actual benefits of investments in rural road infrastructure in other
developing countries.

7.      Considering that some interventions in trunk roads, electricity, agriculture,
education, and health have not been fully completed and no anecdotal evidence and
indicators are available to assess their impact on beneficiaries even qualitatively at this
point of time, these interventions are not included in this analysis. Additional survey
and/or M&E assessment of benefits would be recommended to evaluate the impacts from
the following interventions under the program (a) distribution of textbooks under the


41
     See ISR 9, dated December 2008



                                              42
education sub-component, (b) benefits from constructed hospitals under the health sub-
component, (c) benefits from construction of EDA buildings and seed distributions under
the agricultural sub-component, and (d) rehabilitation of medium and low-voltage
distribution systems under electricity sub-component. Conducting such an assessment at
a later time might also allow for the benefits to realize to a greater extent, given that some
of the outputs have not been put into full use yet (for instance, the hospitals constructed
under the health sub-component are not yet fully operational).

Benefits: Appraisal Estimates and Actuals
8.       Achievement of the outcomes for rural road and water sector interventions under
the rural development component A and rehabilitation of critical infrastructure
component B respectively was measured by the below key indicators. All of these
indicators have achieved the set targets by project closing, and some even exceeded them,
with the exception of the length of rural road rehabilitated, which was completed at only
33 percent of the target value due to substantial increases in unit costs for road works.
a) Water Supply Sector Indicators:
    (i) Of 85 km of water network targeted for rehabilitation in Malanje, N’Dalatando
          and Kuito, the target exceeded with total of 179.6 km completed (77.6 km in
          Malanje, 42 km in N’Dalatando, and 60 km in Kuito).
    (ii) A total of 8,200 houses were connected to water as a result of the program
          interventions, which is almost a double of the appraisal target of 3,572 houses.
    (iii) Community water points construction or rehabilitation exceeded the target of 55
          standpipes to be installed with 256 standpipes actually installed in total.
    (iv) Number of people in the provincial capital of Malanje with access to improved
          water services through house connections and rehabilitated standpipes has
          increased from zero to 400,000 people exceeding the original 90,000 target.
    (v) Number of people in the provincial capital of N’Dalatando with access to
          improved water services through house connections and rehabilitated standpipes
          has also increased from zero to 150,000 people exceeding the appraisal target of
          49,000 people.
    (vi) Number of people in the provincial capital of Kuito with access to improved
          water services through house connections and rehabilitated standpipes has also
          increased from zero to 150,000 people exceeding the appraisal target of 49,000
          people.
    (vii) In total, number of people in urban areas provided with access to Improved
          Water Sources under the project in the cities of N’Dalatando, Malanje and Kuito
          reached over 700,000 people, exceeding the original target significantly.




                                             43
b) Rural Roads Sector Indicators:
   (i) Out of 600 km of rural and feeder roads targeted for rehabilitation at appraisal
        (300 km in each Bié and Malanje provinces), only 200 km in the province of Bié
        have been completed by the project closing, amounting to 25% of the target due
        to substantial increases in unit costs. No rural roads in the province of Malanje
        were rehabilitated as a result.
   (ii) Out of 600 km of roads targeted to be in good condition by the end of the program,
        only 20 percent has been achieved.

Costs: Appraisal Estimates and Actuals
9.      Overall, the actual total program costs were lower: actual cost being US$ 113
million (US$ 35 mln in EMRP-1 and US$ 78 mln in EMRP-2) compared to total
estimated cost of US$ 225 million at appraisal (US$ 92 mln in EMRP-1 and US$ 133
mln in EMRP-2). This difference is explained by the cancellation of part of the IDA
credit, and by the fact that contribution from donors did not materialized 42 , and the
Government funded some activities out of their own resources.
10.     Narrowing down to the specific interventions of interest for this analysis, the cost
of the rehabilitation of rural roads, which accounted for about six percent of total
financing at appraisal (in the amount of US$ 13 million), was lower than the actual costs,
resulting in the net over-run of about US$ 7 million or about 150 percent. Due to
increases in unit costs for rural road rehabilitation works, the actual cost per unit of
output for rural road rehabilitation sub-component amounted to US$ 100,000 per km
compared to US$ 21,700 per km estimated at appraisal. This attests to that either the
costs were largely underestimated at appraisal or to the inefficiencies in the use of project
resources, for which the reasons lie beyond the project’s scope. A careful sensitivity
analysis to cost increases at appraisal could have helped to mitigate these inefficiencies.


11.     Water supply intervention cost accounted for 34 percent of total program costs at
appraisal (in the amount of US$ 76 million), which was higher than the actual costs of
US$ 59 million (for both phases of the program combined). This resulted in the net
under-run of about US$ 17 million or 22 percent. Accordingly, considering that all the
interventions for this sub-component were fully complete, the actual cost per unit of
output for water supply sub-component is below the appraisal estimate. This attests to
the efficient use of project resources for this intervention.


Empirical Evidence of Benefits from Rural Road Investments
12.     Despite the inefficiencies and cost over-runs, the network of rural roads that has
actually been completed generates major direct and indirect net benefits in the form of
increased traffic, increase in agricultural productivity, improved access to markets, travel
time and transport cost reductions, and increased overall mobility of the rural population


42
     There is no evidence that the European Development Fund (EdF) contribution or EMRp-1 materialized.



                                                    44
of Angola. Specifically, the traffic levels increased from nearly non-existent levels in the
post-conflict environment to almost 1,000 vehicles per day on the 42 km section
rehabilitated under the EMRP between Kuito and Chilonda in Bié province 43.


13.     While no implicit data is available to quantify all the benefits from EMRP’s
investment in rural roads in Angola, there is considerable evidence of the benefit of
improving rural road infrastructure in overcoming constraints to agricultural
competitiveness. A number of studies have quantified the time savings and transaction
cost reductions gained by rural households in improved access to product and factor
markets, as well as the impact on generating rural job opportunities. 44 Some studies have
even shown that road access might even compensate for the absence of other public and
private assets. 45 Access to roads and markets is particularly important for women’s
participation in non-farm self-employment with assets. 46 Boxes 1 and 2 summarize the
key findings from relevant studies.




43
   Traffic count provided by the road construction contractor, taken on August 8, 2013, at 60% completion
of the works.
44
   Lucas, David and Rikard (1996), Guimaraes and Uhl (1997), Liu (2000), Escobal (2000), Smith, Gordon,
Meadows and Zwick (2001), Lanjouw, Quizon and Sparrow (2001), quoted in Escobal, J. and C. Ponce.
2002. “The benefits of rural roads: Enhancing income opportunities for the rural poor.” GRADE Working
Paper 40. Lima.
45
   Corral and Reardon (2001); de Janvry and Sadoulet (2001) and Escobal (2001) quoted in Escobal and
Ponce (2002).
46
   Dabalen, A., Paternostro, S. and Pierre, G. 2004. “The returns to participation in the nonfarm sector in
rural Rwanda” World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 3462. World Bank. Washington DC.



                                                    45
                                  Box 1: The Economic Benefits of Rural Road Investment

      Lowering transportation costs:
  •     In Morocco, after implementation of a rural roads improvement project, the percentage of bigger lower cost
        trucks increased by 500% and led to a 50% reduction in transportation costs (Levy, H. 1996. “Morocco –
        Socioeconomic influence of rural roads: Fourth Highway project” Impact Evaluation Report. Operations
        Evaluation Department. World Bank. Washington DC.);
      • In Ghana, after a rural roads rehabilitation project, costs for transporting maize on the improved roads was 33%
        less on improved roads compared to unimproved roads; a shared taxi ride was 20% cheaper on improved roads
        compared to unimproved roads; and an emergency taxi cost 33% to 40% cheaper on improved roads compared
        to unimproved roads; and
      • An evaluation impact survey conducted after the first rural roads project in Peru showed that on average, car
        fares on control roads rose 33.5% compared to 13.9% for project roads; minibus fares rose 33.6% on control
        roads compared to 12.8% for project roads; bus fares rose 19.5% on control roads compared to 12.9% on
        project roads and truck fares rose 23% on control roads compared to 9% on project roads.

      Increasing economic opportunities for the poor:
      • Research in Asia showed villages with better access to roads had 14% lower costs of fertilisers, 12% higher
         wages and 32% higher crop output;
      • In Zhengang district in Bhutan, a survey found that families within 0 to 0.5 days walking time of a road earned
         over two times more than families within 1 to 3 days walking time of a road;
      • In Bangladesh, a survey found that in a matched sample of sixteen villages with comparable soil and agronomic
         conditions, topography and water regimes, agricultural incomes in villages with better road access were around
         24% higher, agricultural wages were about 12% higher, total wage income was almost doubled;
      • In Madagascar, construction of a road to a previously isolated village (only accessible by air and foot) led to a
         35% increase in household disposable income; with 52% of this going to the poorest 10% of the population.
         Farmers living within 5 km of the road benefited 50% more than other more remotely located farmers; and
      • In the Philippines, a study of 586 out of 4,684 households affected by the construction of 6 rural roads showed a
         household income increase of 28% (40% for farmers, 20% for non-farmers). Production volumes of seven
         major marketable crops increased by almost 40% in 2 years since project completion; Average farm-gate prices
         rose 59%; market prices rose 29% one year after project completion. More importantly, before the project, 69%
         of the products were sold at the farm yielding lower prices for farmers but after the project, 60% of the products
         were sold at the markets where they were sold at higher prices.

      Increasing the productivity of businesses:
      • Percentage of paved roads and road density both correlated with crop yield, with elasticity coefficients of 0.305
         and 0.058 respectively. Percentage of paved roads and road density positively correlated with aggregated output
         with elasticity coefficients of 0.263 and 0.121 respectively;
      • From 85 randomly drawn sample districts in India, a rural income survey showed elasticity of bank expansions
         with respect to road density at 0.80, with a 23% increase in fertiliser demand and increases (13%-46%) in
         pump-sets, tracts, draught animals and milk animals over a 10 year period;
      • A study in India using data from the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid tropics from 1970
         through 1974, with 5,450 observations of irrigated and non-irrigated districts, showed that for irrigated districts,
         road density (km roads/ 1000 sq. km cropped land) was strongly and positively correlated with agricultural
         output with a coefficient of 0.189; and
      • A study of 85 districts in thirteen states in India found that 7% of growth in aggregate output can be attributed
         to road investments through the increased access to markets by farmers.



Source: World Bank. 2013. “Ethiopia: Sustaining the Benefits of Rural Road Investments.” AFTTR, Africa Region,
Washington, DC.




                                                        46
                             Box 2: The Social Benefits of Rural Road Investment

  Improving education and the delivery of education:
In Andhra Pradesh, India, the female literacy rate is 60% higher in villages with all season road access
compared with villages with sporadic access;
In Morocco, a study in 1985 before rural roads improvements and 10 years later after the improvements showed
school enrolment rise from 28% to 68% and female enrolment more than tripled;
In Bhutan, based on villages without access to a road to villages with access to a road, it is estimated that
providing access to a road in a village translates to an increase in school attendance of between 75 to 100
people;
In the Morocco study (1985, follow-up 1995) after the rural roads rehabilitation project, the number of schools
increased from 3 to 13 for the project zones while the number increased from 2 to 3 for the control zones (Levy,
1996);
In a rural roads project in Peru, an evaluation impact survey found that of 2,038 households impacted by a
roads access project, 69% believed it had improved teachers’ willingness to teach, 63% believed it had a
positive impact on teacher recruiting and 79% believed that it had improved female teachers’ safety when
travelling; and
Evidence from Pakistan showed an all-weather road may increase girls’ primary school enrolment by 50
percent.

  Increasing access to health services and the delivery of health care
In Jamaica, 73.1% of women noted mobility as being a major problem in accessing pre-natal care services;
A study in the Philippines showed that a 10% increase in distance (by time) from a health care centre is
associated with a 2% increase in mortality rates; and
In Morocco, the 1985 and follow-up 1995 study following a rural roads rehabilitation and new roads project
showed that the number of full time medical staff in affected health centres increased from 0 to 3 or 4 per health
centre.

  Benefits to Women
The Morocco study (1985, follow-up 1995) showed the average number of women working outside of a farm in
a project zone increased from 0.15 to 3;
Women located in a village on a main road in Cameroon spent more time producing food to sell and made an
average income of US$570, more than twice the US$225 earned by women in an isolated village;


Source: World Bank. 2013. “Ethiopia: Sustaining the Benefits of Rural Road Investments.” AFTTR, Africa Region,
Washington, DC.

With versus Without the Project

14.     Overall, the EMRP was a rescue operation without which the provision of basic
services in the country would have further declined potentially leading to increased
poverty and complete despair, making the population worse off than it is “with the
project”. After 30 years of civil war, the country was at the critical point lacking
provision of almost all basic services (health, education, water and sanitation) as well as
transport and electricity. The program provided the urgent support needed at the time and
addressed the country’s most critical needs quickly by restoring vital rural road links and
preventing further decline of basic public services for the population such as access to
water, electricity, health, and education. The EMRP also laid the ground and opened the
door for other projects and development programs, which otherwise would not have been
viable without the initial steps taken under EMRP in the post-conflict country.


                                                     47
   Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
               Names                            Title                Unit
Lending
Abdelmoula Ghzala                  Task Team Leader                 AFTTR
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham             Sector Manager                   AFTTR
Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo          Procurement Analyst              AFTUW
Laurence C. Clarke                 Manager                          AFMAO
Maria Margarida Baessa Mendes      Executive Assistant              AFMAO
Slaheddine Ben-Halima              Consultant                       MNSHD
Philippe Charles Benoit            Sector Manager, Energy           LCSEG
Antonio L. Chamuço                 Senior Procurement Specialist    AFTPC
Eduardo Brito                      Country Lawyer                   LEGAF
Jean J. De St Antoine              Lead Health Specialist           AFTHE
Ntombie Siwale                     Program Assistant                AFTTR

Supervision/ICR
Abdelmoula Ghzala                  Task Team Leader                 AFTTR
Boris Enrique Utria                Task Team Leader                 AFTEG
Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes Chembeze Task Team Lader                  AFTTR
 Inguna Dobraja                    Operations Officer               AFMAO
 Fabio Galli                       Lead Transport Specialist        AFTTR
 Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo         Procurement Analyst              AFTUW
 Olivier J. Lambert                Sector Leader                    MIGOP
 Xiaoyan Liang                     Sr Education Spec.               EASHE
 Elisabeth Maier                   Consultant                       AFTSP
 Lance Morrell                     Consultant                       TWICT
Jonathan Nyamukapa                 Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM
Jenni Amanda Pajunen               Consultant                       AFMAO
Domingas de Fatima Rego Pegado     Team Assistant                   AFMAO
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham             Sector Manager                   AFTTR
Lucio Monary                       Sector Manager                   AFTEG
Supee Teravaninthorn               Sector Manager                   AFTTR
Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares       Lead Water and Sanitation Spec   AFTUW
Joao Tinga                         Financial Management Analyst     AFTFM
Subhash Seth                       Consultant – Highway Engineer    AFTTR
Jacqueline Beatriz Veloz Lockward  Program Assistant                AFTFW
Philippe J. de Naurois             Consultant                       MNSSD
Eduardo Luis Leao de Sousa         Senior Economist                 AFTAR
Mônica Sawyer                      Operations Officer               AFTTR




                                              48
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                  No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)

Lending
  FY04                                         0                       0
  FY05                                         0                       0
  FY06                                         8.73                   35.30
  FY07                                         6.90                   32.87
                         Total:               15.63                   68.17
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                        0                        0.00
  FY08                                       10.76                    35.18
  FY09                                       18.46                    51.00
  FY10                                       20.98                    48.01
  FY11                                       21.51                    43.34
  FY12                                       31.06                    44.99
  FY13                                       24.77                    38.21
  FY14                                        5.65                    16.48
                         Total:             133.19                   277.21




                                              49
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) provided a report entitled
“Decentralization and Local Governance Project – Final Report” dated July 2013. The
report summaries the decentralization and local development, starting with the pilot
program in four provinces: Uíge, Malanje, Bié and Luanda and 5 municipalities in 2004
and extended to five provinces and 23 municipalities in 2011. Training was carried out
in the following areas:

   A. Institutional capacity building, skills and competencies development of
      municipalities for service delivery – trained 120 municipal administrators, civil
      servants and technical experts on planning, budgeting and delivery of municipal
      services.

   B. Strengthening local governments’ capacity for data collection, management an
      analysis capacity and effective planning, monitoring and evaluation – Organized
      a tow day international conference on decentralization with experiences from
      Mozambique, Cape Verde, Brazil and Portugal.

   C. Effective local community and civil society capacity to promote pro-poor, gender
      sensitive, accountable and participatory planning, budgeting, and assessment
      (monitoring and evaluation) at the local level – Worked in five provinces with 72
      municipalities to develop a municipal gender assessment. In 2011, 12 gender
      profile drafts were sent to the Ministry of Family and Women.

   D. Development of Financial Management Systems for Municipal accounting and
      revenue management – Trained 68 staff in 18 municipalities on the Angola
      Financial Management System (SIGFIE).

   E. Promote citizens participation in local governance and development – Trained 75
      local journalists and carried out 10 round table debates that brought together
      community groups, women and youth, to total 1,600 people.




                                         50
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1. PRESENTATION OF THE REPORT

The Final Report of the Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation project (EMRP), intend to
report the current status of management and implementation of the EMRP-2 from the
beginning (January 28, 2008) until closing on May 31, 2013 and present the activities
performed and not performed, successes and constrains, impacts, and indicators for the
implementation of the Project.

The agreed activities under the Financing Agreement signed between the Government of
Angola and World Bank were not all concluded as proposed by the program at the
closing date May 31, 2013, as per the first extension. The Borrower requested a second
extension to February 2014, in order to conclude all activities. Unfortunately, lack of
sensitivity within the World Bank, the request in question was rejected by the Bank.

The program was estimated at $ 102,000,000.00 (One hundred and Two Million U.S.
dollars) and designed to cover the costs of the following components:

          a. Rural Development and Provision of Social Services;
          b. Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Critical Infrastructures;
          c. Development of the Sector Strategy and Capacity Strengthening Human and
          Institutional Capacity;
          d. Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

1.1.      The fundamental objectives of the EMRP
The Program objective was to create sustainable conditions for reconstruction, economic
rehabilitation and restoration of the administration of State throughout the national
territory, helping to:

   (i)       Raising rural incomes and improve food security in the provinces most
             affected by conflict;
   (ii)      Improving access to essential services such as education and health in those
             provinces;
   (iii)     Rehabilitate and rebuild major infrastructure, and
   (iv)      Strengthen the capacity of government at all levels to formulate, prepare,
             implement and manage programs to develop medium and long term.

2. PROGRESS IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT BY
COMPONENTS AND SUB - COMPONENTS

2.1 PART A (Component A) - Rural Development and Provision of Social Services

Regarding this component were planned and carried out the following activities:



                                            51
2.1.1 Construction and Rehabilitation of Agrarian Development Stations (EDAs) in the
provinces of Malanje, Huambo and Bié. Relating to Agriculture Sector

In implementing the activities in this sector, we highlight the work of Construction and
Rehabilitation of Agrarian Development Stations in the provinces of Malanje, Huambo
and Bié, as follows:

a. Malanje Province: were constructed and rehabilitated the following EDAs, amounting
to USD 2,632,168.80 (two million six hundred thirty -two thousand, one hundred and
eighty U.S. dollars and eighty cents):

   1. City of Cacuso (Rehabilitation);
   2. County Calandula (Rehabilitation);
   3. City of Caculama (Rehabilitation);
   4. city of Malanje (Construction of Buildings for IDA - Institute of Agrarian
      Development and IIA - Institute of Agricultural Research);
   5. City of Kiwaba Nzoge (Construction); and
   6. County Cangandala (Construction).

b. Provinces of Bié and Huambo were constructed and rehabilitated the following EDAs,
amounting to USD 3,584,633.12 (three million, five hundred eighty-four thousand, six
hundred and thirty three dollars and twelve cents):

   1.   City of Nharea (Construction);
   2.   County Andulo (Construction);
   3.   City of Camacupa (Construction) ;
   4.   County Catabola (Construction);
   5.   City of Chinguar (Construction);
   6.   County Kuito (Construction); and
   7.   City of Huambo :
            • Construction of Grain Institute (SENSE ) ;
            • Construction and Rehabilitation of the IIA - Institute of Agricultural
                Research ;
            • Construction of IDA - Institute for Agricultural Development).

The infrastructure for the Agriculture Sector in the above referenced counties were
completed in full by May 31, 2013 (closing date of the project) and give support to
farmers and ranchers in the daily practice of agriculture, contributing in combating
hunger and reducing poverty, subsequently, higher household incomes for rural people as
well as the improvement of working conditions for field technicians who make their
workplace.

Moreover, import emphasize that the implementation of the project of construction and
rehabilitation of these infrastructures originally planned for Phase 1 of EMRP, however,




                                          52
given the delays in the implementation of the tendering process and given the closure of
Phase 1 on 28 February 2011 had to be transferred to Phase 2 .
So is facilitated support given to farmers' associations due to the improvement of the
infrastructure concerned families feel satisfied by the improvement of the assistance
given to farmers.

2.1.1 Construction and Rehabilitation of 600 km of Rural Roads (Tertiary) in the
provinces of Bié and Malanje, being:

a) Construction and Rehabilitation of 200 km of road in the 300 km planned Bié
Province:

   1- Road Kuito - Chicala - Capolo (58 Km) and 1 Bridge - 87 % of the work
      completed by May 31, 2013, closing date of the Credit Bank. Contract Amount :
      USD 7,552,113.91 Disbursed amount of work carried out until 31/05/13 = USD
      7,174,508.22

   2- Road Chicala - . Trumbo (63 Km) and 1 bridge 54 % of the work completed by
      May 31, 2013, closing date of the Credit Bank. Contract Amount : USD
      6,964,184.41 Disbursed amount of work carried out until 31/05/13 = USD
      2,566,813.45

   3- Road Kuito - Thrumba - Chilonda (39.50 Km) and 1 Bridge - 70 % of the work
      completed by May 31, 2013, closing date of the Credit Bank. Contract Amount :
      USD 4,496,035.51 Disbursed amount of work carried out until 31/05/13 = USD
      3,078,826.21

   4- Road Nharea - Catabola (50 Km) and 2 bridges - 70 % of the work completed by
      May 31, 2013, closing date of the Credit Bank. Contract Amount : USD
      4,996,217.50 Disbursed amount of work carried out until 31/05/13 = USD
      3,033,504.21

b) Construction and Rehabilitation of 300 km of road in Malanje Province: Faced with
insufficient funds, this activity was not performed.

Therefore, the amount budgeted for the construction and rehabilitation of 600 km of rural
roads in the provinces of Bié and Malanje was not enough for its implementation.
Therefore, given the situation, the Project Coordination and the World Bank team
consulted with the Ministry of Agriculture and decided to rehabilitate 200 km, equivalent
to the 4 sections as listed above, which the project had sufficient budget. Thus 400 km of
rural roads were excluded from the Project: 300 Km of Malanje Province and 100 km of
Bié Province.

Although the roads are not yet complete, improvements in transportation and movement
of people and goods are already tangible, thereby ensuring considerable trade between
country and city.



                                           53
Today there is already greater movement of trucks and other means of transport in
sections under construction. People are resettling towards the improved road, creating
new villages. Time or duration of travel is reduced to 50 % and the cost transport
categorically reduced when compared to before the construction and rehabilitation of
rural roads in the province.

To this end, we can say that after completion, the main objectives will be achieved
expected, among which we highlight: (a) reducing the high cost of transporting people
and goods, (b) connection and movement of people inter-municipal and provincial, and
(c) assist the reintegration of the country.

2.2 PART B (Component B) - Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Critical
Infrastructures.
This component consists of the following sub- components:
   1- Transport;
   2- Roads and Bridges;
   3- Electricity;
   4- Water Supply;
   5- Urban Services Infrastructure.

2.2.1 Sub -Component - Transportation:
This sub - component of the project was planned to conduct the Study of Multimodal
Transport Strategy , which were not performed, because the sector have not shown
interest in interacting with the Management Unit and Implementation of the Project
despite contacts made by UGIP.

2.2.2 Sub -Component - Roads and Bridges:
The rehabilitation of 150 km of roads and bridges, the section Lucala - Negage, was
funded by the Government of Angola, hence the prospects were met. The Government of
Angola carried out the works, because there was a need to have the rehabilitated section
for ways to facilitate the conditions of movement of people and goods soon after the
achievement of peace in 2002, had strong and urgent. The Government of Angola has
decided to undertake the construction and rehabilitation to stretch Lucala - Negage with
own funds.

2.2.3 Sub -Component - Electricity:
In this subcomponent was provided Construction and Rehabilitation Supply Systems
Electricity Distribution to five cities in Angola, being: (a) N’Dalatando, (b) Uige, (c)
Malanje, (d) Luena, and (e) Kuito, whose studies were undertaken and completed in
Phase 1 of the EMRP.

However, at the time of implementation of the studies for the planned in cities, the PMIU
was informed that some local governments have already rehabilitated the electrical
supply system, given the urgent need at the time of toasting the population with
electricity. The cities of N’Dalatando and Malanje had the work done with their own



                                           54
funds. However, the Project Coordination and ENE -EP (National Electricity Company -
Public Company) took the decision to conduct such activities in peri-urban areas of the
three other cities (Kuito, Luena and Uige) provided in the Financing Agreement.

The rehabilitation took its normal course of execution and by the closing date, 67 % of
the work had been accomplished. Therefore, the portion of work that transcends the
closing date of the Credit (May 31, 2013) will be the responsibility of the Government of
Angola and supported with capital.

The contractual amount and initially signed for the three contracts, amounted to USD
26,103,514.60 (Twenty six million, one hundred and three thousand, five hundred and
fourteen U.S. dollars and sixty cents). However, during the implementation for these tree
cities, changes emerged, resulting in an additional amount of USD 3,751,941.00 (three
million, seven hundred fifty -one thousand, nine hundred and forty-one U.S. dollars),
making the total amount of 29,855,455.60 (twenty nine million, eight hundred fifty-five
thousand, four hundred fifty-five U.S. dollars and sixty cents).

Regarding the electricity projects in three cities (Uige, Kuito and Luena), when the work
is concluded (June 2014) it will supply electricity to following beneficiaries:

City of Uige = 3,990 beneficiaries;
City of Luena = 2,311 beneficiaries; and
City of Kuito = 3,584 beneficiaries.

At this time, we can categorically state that with the completion of these works,
thousands of people will be benefited, among which appears for example, the electricity
consumption in households, schools (especially those with night teaching programs), gas
stations and medical centers in peri-urban areas. At the moment the areas concerned and
social establishments are supplied by individual generators, thus bearing high resulting
costs of buying fuel.

Concomitantly, remain the objectives of these project , which are (a) ensuring the
sustainability of electricity services to the community for commercial matters, (b)
normalize the distribution of electricity in the provincial capital permanently and
acceptable quality of service, etc. .

Moreover, this subcomponent funded studies for the distribution of electricity in some
areas of Luanda (Vienna) were also performed. Studies were completed on May 31, 2013
and delivered EDEL - EP (Public Electricity Distribution Company in Luanda). These
studies will help EDEL solve the problem of electrical power peri- urban areas of Vianna
in Luanda Province. The contract amount for the study was USD 462,220.11 (four
hundred sixty -two thousand, two hundred and twenty U.S. dollars and eleven cents).
However, given the delay in the delivery of the Reports of Studies for Electricity
Distribution Company Luanda - Public Company (EDEL, EP) (to 31.05.2013 only), it
was not possible to implement the acquisition of equipment envisaged in the project
therefore coincided with the closing date of the credit by the World Bank.



                                           55
2.2.4 Sub -Component - Water Supply:

The work of the Works Construction and Rehabilitation of Water Supply System to the
cities of Malanje, Kuito and N’Dalatando, relating to Lot 1 of each of the cities, began on
Phase 1 of the Project, which ended on 28 February 2011. Yet because of insufficient
funds in Phase 1, the Project Coordination and the World Bank team took the decision to
complete the work under cover of the Phase 2 funds. The amount involved contractually
stood at USD 19,512,230.10 (nineteen million, five hundred and twelve thousand, two
hundred thirty U.S. dollars and ten cents), of which USD 19,358,529.85 (nineteen million,
three hundred and fifty eight thousand, five hundred and twenty nine U.S. dollars and
eighty-five cents) refer to the Works and USD 153,700.19 (one hundred fifty-three
thousand, seven hundred U.S. dollars and nineteen cents) to consulting services.

This Sub-Component, also funded the construction and rehabilitation of water supply and
distribution system - Lot 2 - the city of N’Dalatando Province of Kwanza Norte. This
contract involved an amount of USD 8,414,793.69 (eight million, four hundred and
fourteen thousand seven hundred and ninety-three U.S. dollars and sixty nine cents). This
project was planned for Phase 2.

Considered the availability of funds (resulting from the activities of the program met
forecast) for the implementation of large-caliber project in the water sector and
considering the dearth of this precious liquid in the peri-urban area of the city of Malanje,
the Project Coordination and the World Bank team Coordinated by TTL, decided to
implement the project Lot 2. This activity was not initially foreseen in the project. This
contract involved an amount of USD 7,785,223.00 (seven million seven hundred and
eighty-five thousand, two hundred and twenty three U.S. dollars).

Contrary to the benefits highlighted above and in view of the Draft Government called "
Water for All " which aims to create infrastructure for water supply nationwide, the
Water Supply Project in rural Moxico, in the initial project, not been achieved as a result
of the decision taken by the direct stakeholders of the Project, and the Project
Coordination, National Directorate of Water and the World Bank team, thereby avoiding
duplication of services.

However, the Draft Constitution of Public Enterprises Water in three provinces, the
provision of Technical Assistance to the DNA (National Water Directorate) for the
strategic development of the sector and the Master Plan of the cities were not brought
under EMRP therefore were transferred to PDISA Project, also funded by the World
Bank and the Government of Angola to the Ministry of Energy and Water.

Today, we are witnessing great benefits with the installation of drinking water in the
cities of Malanje, Kuito and N’Dalatando.

In the city of N’Dalatando Lot 1 was constructed as follows:
    • A water collection;
    • A station water treatment;


                                             56
   •   A conduit pipeline;
   •   A reservoir distribution of 5000m3; and
   •   Beneficiaries: 150,000 people.

We should note that this number corresponds to recipient’s initial estimate, counted after
the installation of potable water demand grew and the number of beneficiaries increased
significantly with linkages to the resident.

In the city of Malanje , Lot 1 was constructed as follows:
    • About 42 km from the conduct;
    • Installation of 3,200 household connections;
    • Construction of 45 fountains in peri - urban areas;
    • Beneficiaries: 200,000 people

We should note that this number corresponds to recipient’s initial estimate counted after
installation of potable water demand grew and the number of beneficiaries increased
significantly.

In Kuito, Lot 1 was constructed as follows:
    • A capture station and water treatment;
    • A reservoir with a capacity of 4000m3;
    • 60 km network in the urban area;
    • 2,000 house connections;
    • 60 Fountains in peri-urban areas;
    • Beneficiaries: 150,000 people.

We should note that this number corresponds to recipient’s initial estimate, counted after
the installation of potable water demand grew and the number of beneficiaries increased
significantly almost double expected.

2.2.5 Sub -Component - Urban Services and Infrastructure

In this subcomponent, the studies were carried out to control erosion in Luena, in Moxico,
once completed, were delivered to the National Infrastructure Directorate of the Ministry
of Construction. This activity involved a contractual amount of USD 457,769.00 (four
hundred fifty-seven thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine U.S. dollars).

By the Project Coordination Team and the World Bank decision Projects Works in
Luanda critical sanitation and drainage points were not performed, since in Luanda were
several projects running under the jurisdiction of the Angolan Executive.

Work on the control of erosion in Luena Moxico were not performed for reasons of
closure of the project May 31, 2013, and there was not time for the launch of the
competition and consequently the award and implementation. Therefore, the delay in
question was due to the indifference of the responsible industry at time of production of
research.


                                            57
2.3 PART C (Component C) - Development of the Sector Strategy and Capacity
Strengthening Human and Institutional Capacity

2.3.1 This component was given technical assistance in the preparation and formulation
of PDISA Project with the National Directorate of Water and Sanitation of the Ministry
of Energy and Water. The contractual amount involved is USD 472,000.00 (four hundred
and seventy-two thousand U.S. dollars).

2.3.2 Technical assistance in environmental impact assessment for all projects of the
EMRP was provided. The contractual amount involved is USD 1,364,575.41 (one million,
three hundred sixty-four thousand, five hundred and seventy-five U.S. dollars and forty
one cents).

2.3.3 Through the UNDP (United Nations Development Program) training and capacity
building aimed at some of the country Municipal Administrations. This training involved
the transmission mechanisms of management, operation, procedures, planning and
monitoring of activities, financial management were performed, procurement, project
management and decentralization. The contractual amount involved is USD 1,800,000.00
(One million, eight hundred thousand U.S. Dollars).

2.4 PART D (Component D) - Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

2.4.1 Subcomponent - Technical Assistance to the Project Management and
Monitoring.

For the operation of the Project, the employees were hired through the Public Tender to
fill the positions mentioned below, with the exception of the Project Coordinator, who in
accordance with the Agreement, was appointed or nominated by the Ministry of Planning
of the Government of Angola:

       1.   Project Coordinator;
       2.   Financial Management Specialist;
       3.   Procurement Specialist;
       4.   Procurement Officer;
       5.   Project Accountant;
       6.   Accounting Assistant;
       7.   Secretariat of the Project;
       8.   Two Drivers Project.

Institutional support. The Project Management and Implementation Unit, worked for the
Ministry of Planning and Territorial Development under the supervision of the Secretary
of State for Public Investments and in tune with the sectors assigned to the Project as:
Energy, Water, Agriculture, Construction and Provincial Governments Malanje, Kwanza-
Norte, Huambo, Bié, Moxico and Uige.




                                           58
This subcomponent involved an amount of USD 1,456,011.99 (One million, four hundred
fifty-six thousand, eleven U.S. dollars and ninety nine cents).

2.4.2 Training

Regarding the training/capacity building, it is highlighted the specific and specialized
training in (a) Financial Management, (b) Disbursement and (c) Procurement.

Local staff working directly in Project management benefited from training, including:

Delfina Manuel: financial management and disbursements in Kenya, Malawi and
Mozambique
Domingos Canda: financial management and disbursements in Malawi and Mozambique;
Moises Siliveli: Procurement training in Kenya and Mozambique;
Peter Viriato: financial management and disbursements in Malawi and Mozambique

These trainings have contributed to broadening the knowledge of Angolan staff on the
standards of the World Bank and other donors for the implementation of project. We note
that even with the closure of EMRP Project, these frameworks could be useful and
valuable in implementing projects in other agencies with projects in Angola multilateral
funding. The formation of these constitutes an asset for the country.

2.4.3 Disbursements

The Project, from effectiveness in January 28, 2008 to closing date on May 31, 2013,
disbursed the amount of USD 67,899,021.13, representing 67 % of the (USD
102,000,000) of Project.

During the reporting period were disbursed 67,899,021.13 for Components , as follows:

   •   USD 13,202,301.22 - AGRICULTURE;
   •   USD 34,325,707.86 - WATER;
   •   USD 379,948.28 - URBAN;
   •   USD 16,259,341.40 - ELECTRICITY;
   •   USD 1,629,052.85 - SECTOR STRATEGY FORTAMENTO INSTITUTIONAL;
   •   USD 2,102,669.52 - PROJECT MANAGEMEN;

And distributed in the following categories:

   •   USD 61,913,457.79 - WORKS ;
   •   USD 175,860.00 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ;
   •   USD 5,218,281.00 - CONSULTING ;
   •   USD 32739.04 - TRAINING
   •   USD 558,683.30 - OPERATING COSTS

3. MAIN CONSTRAINTS


                                               59
During the Project implementation were noted some key constraints that have listed
below:

1. Constant change the TTL of the Project by the World Bank;
2. The changing of the Project Coordinators by Government of Angola;
3. The recruitment of expatriate specialists without transmission of know-how to
   national technical;
4. Lack of dedication, commitment and interest among focal points in areas in lack of
   fees, compensation in the time devoted to the project, causing a huge bureaucracy in
   the provision of feedback to a particular subject;
5. Much bureaucracy and considerable delays in the process of obtaining funds for the
   project to cover the payments entered on Public Investment Projects was verified by
   the General Secretariat of the Ministry of guardianship (as Budget Unit);
6. Extensive delays in granting the "No Objection" to procurement processes TTL by
   the World Bank.

4. CONCLUSION AND FINAL THOUGHTS

Despite the constraints mentioned in section 2.4.1, among which we emphasize the length
and lack of issuance of no objection from the Bank, which forced the project to stay for a
period of approximately one year, without concluding procurement actions at the apse of
the project causing extensive delays in implementation, we consider the implementation
of Phase 2 of the Project since January 28, 2008 to May 31, 2013 as satisfactory.

Many huge impact and objectives were achieved with good results. Specially in the
implementation of the project construction and rehabilitation of drinking water supply
system in the cities of Malanje, Kuito and N’Dalatando; infrastructure to support rural
areas, such as the Agrarian Development Stations (EDAs) in the municipalities of the
provinces of Malanje, Huambo and Bié; construction and rehabilitation of rural roads,
although that has not been completed, as facilitating the movement of people and goods
inter-municipal; construction and rehabilitation of power supply systems, but also with
works not yet completed, but that envision the possibility to come help serve The home
electricity populations in peri-urban areas of the cities of Uige, Kuito and Luena, one
since the Government has shown willingness and availability to the full completion of the
project with their own funds.

We emphasize that the implementation of a multisectoral program is complex, since it
involves many sectors, departments and technicians with several subordinations, which
hinders the quick decision making in the face of massive bureaucracy.

We also conclude that the difficulties become even greater, because the technicians of
various sectors involved in the project have not been awarded any salary compensation
which led to recovery and priority of other services from which their monthly salaries,
thus leaving part of the responsibilities being delegated to them by their superiors. For an
example, we observed fewer constraints on component waters, because from the



                                            60
beginning, have been recruited to a focal point right to remuneration. The focal point was
a total commitment to the project, a situation which greatly helped the success of project
implementation.

Among other difficulties, highlight the difficulty of staff from different sectors can adapt
to different situations, such as: Procurement Standards of the World Bank (published in
English, a language that few are versed on) versus Procurement Standards of the
Government of Angola.

Moreover, one of the most important lessons is that we know against the need to recruit
expatriates, it should be certain as to its high capacity to transfer the know-how to the
local staff, as provided in the Agreement funding. This assistance from the local
expatriate staff does not happen in many cases, thus resulting in a certain emptiness in the
sustainability of what was done and the ability to continue working with good
performance in case of termination of contract expatriate.

The assets acquired under the project, in the case of vehicles, computers and furniture
will be delivered to the Ministry of Planning and Territorial Development (MPDT) while
the goods found in the Project Management and Implementation Unit (PMIU) and those
that are outside MPDT shall remain in their respective sectors, specifically in the ENE,
EDEL Ministry of Agriculture and National Directorate of Water and Sanitation of the
Ministry of Energy and Water.




                                            61
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents



1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, April 24, 2007

2. Technical Annex, Report No:T7666, April 24, 2007

3. Appendix to the Technical Annex. Report No: T7666, April 24, 2007

4. Projecto Multisectorial de Emergência e Reabilitação, Relatorio de Gestão do
   Projecto, May, 2013, by Project Management and Implemetation Unit.

5. Legal Documents related to the Project, Financing Agreement, Legal Opinion

6. Environmental Assessment, volumes I to IV, posted on Image Bank on March 4,
   2008

7. Aide Mémoires: Implementation Supervision mission EMRP-2

8. Complete copies of ISRs 1 to 10.

9. IDA’s Non-Concessional Borrowing Policy: The Case of Angola, Report No. 39211,
   dated March 14, 2007

10. Decentralization and Local Governance Project – Final Report, July 2013 by UNDP-
    Angola

11. Final Project Report dated August 2013, “ Projecto Multisectorial de Emergência e
    Reabilitação - Fase 2 (PMER) (Crédito IDA N.º 43100 Ang – Fase 2) Agosto 2013




                                          62
MAP




      63
