 IEG
                                                                                                    Report Number: ICRR14872

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 10/27/2015

               Country: Angola
             Project ID: P095229                                                        Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Angola Emergency                Project Costs (US$M):                        133.0                 170.6
                         Multi-sector Recovery
                         - Phase 2
  L/C Number:                                            Loan/Credit (US$M):                        102.0                  78.0
      Sector Board:      Transport                       Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  05/22/2007
                                                                 Closing Date:            06/30/2011           05/31/2013
           Sector(s):       General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (30%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads
                            and Highways (30%); Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (25%); General public
                            administration sector (15%)
          Theme(s):         Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction
                            (25%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery (24%); Decentralization (13%);
                            Education for all (13%)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:             ICR Review                   Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva           Peter Nigel Freeman      Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                     Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

This was the second phase of the Emergency Multi-sector Recovery Program, which aimed to help build the
foundation for long-term reconstruction, economic rehabilitation, and re-establishment of state administration
throughout its territory. The specific objectives for phase 2 of the project were "to: (a) facilitate agricultural marketing in
specific areas with high agricultural potential that have been affected by the conflict; (b) reconstruct and rehabilitate
critical infrastructure; and (c) strengthen capacity of participating ministries and agencies for improved governance
and transparency and of local governments for future decentralization" (Technical Annex, p.7-8).

The Financing Agreement (p.5) states the objectives of the project as follows "to assist the Recipient in its post-war
recovery efforts to build foundations for long-term reconstruction, economic rehabilitation, and the re-establishment of
state administration throughout its territory".

Following IEG procedures, this Review will base its evaluation on the statement of objectives in the legal document.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Rural development and delivery of social services (appraised US$13 million; actual US$42.2 million)
was to finance the rehabilitation of about 600 km of rural roads, i.e., 300 km of rural roads in the Bié province and 300
km of rural roads in the Malanje province. A new activity was added on reconstruction of the Agricultural Development
Stations (Estação de Desenvolvimento Agrícola), which remained to be completed after the program's first phase.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Critical Infrastructure (appraised US$106 million; actual
US$123.8 million) comprised four subcomponents: (i) roads (appraised US$28 million; actual US$26.5 million)
included rehabilitation of about 150 kilometers of high traffic roads and bridges linking the cities of Lucala and
Negage; (ii) electricity (appraised US$36 million; actual US$51.6 million) included reconstruction of medium and
low-voltage power distribution systems in the provincial capitals of Luena, Malanje, N’Dalantando, Kuito, and Uige,
and about seventy (70) kilometers of power lines network in Luanda; (iii) water supply (appraised US$25 million;
actual US$33.9 million) was to support water services in N’Dalatando and in rural areas of Moxico; and (iv) urban
infrastructure and services (appraised US$17 million; actual US$11.8 million) was to finance a rapid assessment of
the drainage and sewerage collection systems in Luanda and emergency repairs to prevent overflows of sewage, and
studies, equipment, and civil works to control erosion in Moxico.

Component 3. Sector Development Strategies and Strengthening of Human and Institutional Capacity (appraisal
US$8 million; actual US$2.5 million) aimed to: (a) establish a model for financing the subnational administrations’
development budget; (b) create a mechanism and practical tools for regular auditing, monitoring and financial
reporting requirements; (c) build capacity at local level to plan, budget, implement, and monitor small-scale rural
infrastructure; (d) pilot mechanisms for investment programming, budgeting, implementation, assets’ management,
and accounting. The activities were to focus on four municipalities, Kilamba Kiaxi (Luanda province), Kamacupa (BiC),
Calandula (Malange), and Sanza Pombo (Uige).

Component 4. Management, Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Implementation (appraisal US$7 million; actual
US$2.1 million) was to finance technical assistance, consultant services, operating costs, logistical support, and
equipment to complement project management and monitoring and evaluation.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The actual project cost was US$170.6 million, which increased from the appraised amount of US$133
million due to cost increase and additional contribution from the Government.

Financing: IDA's credit of US$102 million was disbursed at US$78 million by project closure. The unallocated amount
of US$24 million was cancelled, as a number of project activities were carried out with Government own funds. There
was no other co-financing. Technical Annex indicated that EU, UNDP/UNCDF, and French Cooperation committed to
finance one percent (TA's Appendixes, p.4). The ICR does not provide information on co-financing.

Borrower contribution : The Government contributed US$92.6 million, which is threefold of their original commitment of
US$30 million, as it carried out a number of the planned activities through its own budget.

Dates: The project closing date was extended once by 23 months from the original closing date of June 30, 2011 to
May 31, 2013 due to slow implementation, as a result of delays in procurement, issuance of entry visas to the country,
and difficulty in access to the project sites for security reasons.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High.
Angola's prolonged civil conflict had devastated Angola's infrastructure and displaced roughly one-third of the
country's population (about 4 million). While the country was growing due to oil revenues, it had one of the world’s
highest levels of income inequality. The challenge for Angola was to re-establish the administration to address poor
governance and restore basic infrastructure services in the country. The project development objectives were
consistent with the the Government's post-war Priority Phase Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program
(PPMRRP), which was extended from the period of 2003-2005 to 2011-2012. This two- phased Emergency
Multi-Sector Recovery Program supported by the Bank provided the framework for the Government's Program (Phase
2 of the program is the project under review). The objectives remain relevant to the Government's Poverty Reduction
Plan (Estrategia de Combate a Pobreza) 2010-2015 and the National Development Plan 2013-2017, which focus on
poverty reduction, eradication of hunger, and accelerated infrastructure development. The project objectives remain
relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for Angola FY2014-2016, which aims to help diversify the
economy, enhance quality of service delivery, and build human/institutional capacity.

b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
As explained in the project's Technical Annex (TA) p.8, although presented as a program, this is a single project split
into two phases due to IDA resources constraints. In 2005, the Bank could finance only part of its intended
contribution to the overall emergency program under IDA 13, therefore it was decided to split the operation into two
phases, with the second phase to be financed under IDA 14. The second phase was to build on the activities of the
first phase (P083333) and focus on upgrading infrastructure, supporting rehabilitation or construction of feeder roads,
trunk roads (including bridges), electricity services, rural water supply, water supply in a provincial capital, and urban
infrastructure. The second phase did not include health and education services supported under the first phase.
Measures to strengthen central and local governments were included under both projects.

The statement of the development objective was clear. The components in the project supported the re-establishment
of livelihoods for the resident population in the conflict affected provinces, through improving road access and
restoring water and electricity services. The results framework was built around the phase -2 specific objectives (TA's
Annex 1). The project was also to support decentralization and local government development through piloting of a
fiscal transfer mechanism from the central government to the targeted four provinces. This was however not an
emergency activity and premature for the limited operational and administrative capacity. The overall design of the
emergency project was complex for a post-conflict context characterized by serious implementation and coordination
capacity weaknesses.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

(a) To assist the Recipient in its post -war recovery efforts to build foundations for long-term reconstruction and
economic rehabilitation .
Substantial.

Outputs

Rural roads and Agriculture
     503 km of rural roads were rehabilitated against the target of 600 km, of which 373 km were in the Malanje
      province (financed through government own funds), and 130 km of rural roads were in the Bié province (83%
      complete at closure).
     150 km of primary road between Lucala and Negage was rehabilitated as targeted, through government own
      funds.
     12 agriculture buildings were rehabilitated to function as Agriculture Development Offices to promote smallholder
      agriculture, provide innovative participatory agriculture methods and distribute inputs. The furnishing and
      equipment for these buildings were to be provided by IDA though the Market Oriented Smallholder Agriculture
      Project (P093699) and the GoA.

Electricity
     Medium and low-voltage electricity distribution systems were rehabilitated in Malanje, N'Dalatando and Luanda
      and are operating as targeted (the works were financed through government own funds within the framework of
      the project). Rehabilitation works were 67% complete in the targeted peri-urban areas of the three cities of Kuito,
      Luena and Uige at project closure.

Water Supply
     In Malanje, all the targets were exceeded: 3,200 house connections were provided (target 2,500), 77.6 km of
      pipes and 45 standpipes (target 40) were completed.
     In N'Dalatando, all the targets were met and exceeded: 2,100 water house connections were provided (target
      1,600); 42 km of pipes and 93 standpipes were completed as targeted, including construction of an intake station
      and water treatment facility.
     In Kuito, 2,000 water connections, 60 km of urban network and 60 standpipes were completed, including a
      reservoir (no targets).

Urban infrastructure and services
     Tender documents were prepared for feasibility studies and detailed designs for community participation in
      prevention and maintenance measures to reduce erosion in areas prone to natural disasters in Luena city.
     A feasibility study and civil works were carried out to improve Luanda’s drainage and sewage collection system, fi
      nanced through Government budget.
     A study of erosion control in Moxico was not completed, as planned, including related civil works.

Outcomes
  500,000 people are reported to have benefitted from improved water services through household connections
     and rehabilitated standpipes in three provinces of Malanje, N’Dalatando and Kuito.
    Travel time along the Chicala-Mutuvo road segment reduced by half from three hours (based on interviews with
     local users); and the traffic increased significantly, including trucks, from nearly non-existent levels in the
     post-conflict environment to almost 1,000 vehicles per day on the 42 km section rehabilitated under the project
     between Kuito and Chilonda in Bié province ( based on traffic count provided by the road construction contractor
     in 2013).
    For lack of data and limited capacity and resources, no study was carried out at project closure to assess the
     project's impact. The ICR provides an overview of empirical evidence on actual benefits of investments in rural
     roads that include increasing economic opportunities for the poor, productivity of businesses, and lowering
     transportation costs (ICR's Annex 4). Improved water services help decrease the incidence of cholera and other
     water borne diseases. The electricity works that were still on-going at project closure in the three peri-urban
     areas were expected to reach about 10,000 beneficiaries, including schools and medical centers, as well as
     replace individual generators, thus reducing cost of buying fuel ( Annex 7- Borrower's report, p.55).

Overall, the project targets on outputs were largely achieved, albeit the works were largely financed and completed by
the Government. The on-going electricity and road works are likely to be completed. It is reasonable to conclude that
improvements in infrastructure delivered within the framework of the project substantially contributed to the country's
long-term reconstruction and economic rehabilitation.

(b) To assist the Recipient in its post -war recovery efforts to build foundations for the re -establishment of state
administration throughout its territory .
Modest.

Outputs
  Sector strategies were drafted for water and electricity, i.e., Water for All, and Electricity for All. These
    sector-specific initiatives aimed for major expansion in access to public goods and services by 2017. The
    preparation of transport strategy was cancelled for lack of interest from the relevant Ministry.
  Training was carried out on water treatment, distribution, management and sanitation practices for local
    authorities and community leaders, and infrastructure planning for the Ministry of Planning (the ICR does not
    report the number of people).
  Harmonization of methodologies for planning, budgeting, and public management was completed in five
    provinces (Uíge, Bengo, Kwanza Norte, Malanje and Bié) and 163 municipalities. This was done through the
    support of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) but financed under the project (ICR p.17).
  The envisaged grants program to finance goods, works, and services for local governments did not take place
    under the project.

Outcomes
There were two outcome indicators to measure achievements for the institutional support provided under the project:
(i) improved system of procurement and financial management in the ministries and agencies involved in the project;
and (ii) implementation of fiscal transfer mechanisms for decentralization in some provinces.
    As for the first outcome indicator, the ICR p.iv reports that the implementing agencies' procurement capacity has
     improved; this however is not supported by the project experience, which suffered from significant procurement
     delays, poor quality and incomplete procurement documentation, and preparation of tender packages (ICR,
     p.13). The ICR does not discuss either if the capacity of the ministries and agencies improved to implement
     projects transparently (intermediate indicator 5) . The approval of the procurement legislation by the Government
     in 2010, mentioned by the ICR p.iv, cannot be attributed to the project.
    As for the second outcome target of implementation of fiscal transfer mechanisms for decentralization in selected
     provinces, the ICR reports that there are fiscal transfer mechanisms within the provinces but these cannot be
     attributed to the project, and the indicator was not monitored.
The sector strategies supported by the project provided the basis for new investments in water and energy
infrastructure. In particular, the Ministry of Energy and Water had an action plan to invest US$5.9 billion to expand and
upgrade water pumps and purification systems to supply 120 municipalities by 2017.


5. Efficiency:

No economic or financial analyses were done at appraisal as this was not required for emergency projects. The ICR
p.18 explains that an ex-post analysis was not possible due to data constraints. For example, in transport sector, no
traffic counts were carried out in the country, and travel times, fleet size and composition remained uncertain.

The ICR discusses the overall benefits attained from improving access to basic infrastructure services based on
empirical evidence from similar interventions, in particular rural roads and water supply, and concludes that the
provision of basic services in most affected areas would have further declined from the already serious post-conflict
situation, making the population worse off than it is “with the project” (Annex 4).

The project implementation period was extended by about two years, and there were still activities incomplete at
closure. While appraised in 2005, it was approved in 2007 and became effective in 2008; as a result of these
substantial delays, the Government undertook a significant part of the activities through its own funds. About US$23
million of IDA funds were not utilized and cancelled at project closure. The project pace of implementation was slow
for low procurement capacity, weak coordination, and difficulties in receiving entry visas.

There was also increase in unit costs, for example, the actual unit cost for rural road rehabilitation amounted to US$
100,000 per km compared to US$ 21,700 per km estimated at appraisal. The ICR p. 44 further elaborates that either
the costs were largely underestimated at appraisal or there were inefficiencies in the use of project resources; no
analysis was undertaken to understand the increase in road works unit costs. The actual unit costs for water
component were lower than appraised (ICR, p.44).

Efficiency is assessed as modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                       No
      ICR estimate                    No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project’s objectives were highly relevant to the Bank’s and the Government’s priorities for Angola. Relevance of
design is rated modest. Overall, the project substantially contributed to Angola's post-war recovery efforts to build
foundations for long-term reconstruction and economic rehabilitation, however its support for the re-establishment of
state administration throughout the country was only modest. Efficiency is assessed as modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Financial risk. After project closure, the remaining electricity and road works were being implemented by the
      Government through its own funds; and according to the ICR p.14, GoA is financing maintenance of the
      project-supported infrastructure.

     Institutional risk . The Government adopted the water and electricity strategies and remains committed to
      continue the expansion of access to infrastructure. However, the institutional capacity, in particular public
      procurement system performance, remain weak to ensure good progress and achievement of the sector- defined
      goals.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The project was prepared pursuant to OP/BP 8.0 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies. The project was
appraised in November 2005, however due to delays in Bank’ evaluation of GoA’s non-concessional borrowing, it
was approved in May 2007. The effectiveness was further delayed to 2008, and the Government decided to
implement priority activities of the project using its own resources. The emergency project design was complex for
a post-conflict environment with low institutional and procurement capacity. The project team could not access
project sites for security concerns, and relied on local authorities to understand the condition of infrastructure in
the selected communities.
The assessment of risks did not identify two important factors that eventually impacted the project implementation
to a significant extent. These were the difficulty in accessing project sites in conflict- affected areas was not
identified as a risk at preparation, and the difficulty in obtaining entry visas for international staff at the PMIU,
resulting in a disorganized procurement process. M&E design had weaknesses, as a number of indicators were
not clearly defined. Also, the project costs were significantly underestimated at appraisal.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were irregular, due to persistent challenges in obtaining entry visas for Angola despite the
United Nations Laissez-Passer. The ICR p.21 reports that the implementation status reports were prepared in a
timely fashion after each mission. The few supervision aide-memoires filed in the Bank’s document repository
identified the key problems and agreed on action plans to address them. For example, establishing a steering
committee, restructuring the project, and extending the closing date. This decisions were based on partial
assessment, as a formal midterm review of project -phase 2 did not take place because of visa failed applications
of an international consultant.

The project team leader changed several times. In 2010, such change however seemed to help speed up the
procurement processes and project disbursements (ICR, p.13-14). The project team however could not ensure the
completion of the activities. Also, while there were new activities added in lieu of the ones financed by the
Government, about US$24 million were still cancelled at project closure. According to the Borrower p.60, there
were extensive delays in receiving ‘no objection’ from the Bank on procurement processes.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government of Angola was committed to the project and responded to project delays through implementation
of the activities agreed within the project framework through its own resources, which were boosted by growing oil
revenues. A substantial portion of civil works were completed by the Government.

The ICR p.22 notes that the GoA was unable to facilitate the provision of timely entry visas for consultants,
contractors and Bank staff, thus affecting the project progress and implementation of the activities.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The implementing agency was the Project Management and Implementation Unit (PMIU) established under the
guidance of the Vice-Minister of Planning. The ICR notes p. 22 that PMIU played a key role in identifying priority
activities financed by the project. There were however a number of factors under the control of the PMIU that
contributed to implementation delays, in particular (a) coordination of the activities between the line ministries and
local agencies involved in the project; (b) fragmented approach to the submission of procurement requests, which
created confusion and delayed approvals; and (c) inadequate arrangements for the collection of project- related
data needed for the agreed monitoring and evaluation procedures. While the ICR finds p.11 that this improved by
the end of project, it still did not ensure the completion of project activities by project closure. Also, there were
several changes in project coordinators. The ICR should have discussed the performance of the sector ministries
involved in the project.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The results framework had seven key outcome indicators that were linked with the specific objectives of the phase-2
project (Technical Annex- Annex 1). The indicators focused on measuring whether improvements in physical
infrastructure were implemented. The institutional capacity indicators were to measure (i) the improvement in
procurement and financial management system- through Bank assessment, and (ii) the implementation of fiscal
transfer mechanisms for decentralization. There were no baseline data for most of the indicators.


b. M&E Implementation:

Due to insufficient institutional capacity of the project implementing agencies and limited access to project sites in six
provinces (Bié, Kwanza North, Luanda, Malanje, Moxico and Uíge), the PMIU was unable to collect the appropriate
data required for adequate monitoring. The PMIU provided quarterly reports on the financial management of the
project and documented the completion of activities funded by the project. Quarterly reports did not include detailed
progress data towards completion of indicators (e.g., the number of households affected by improvement of water
infrastructure). The PMIU provided more detailed data to evaluate the performance at the end of the project.

c. M&E Utilization:
  As inferred from the ICR's discussion of M&E, as a result of the limited data collection during implementation, M&E
was utilized only for the evaluation of the project performance.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

As part of the program, phase 2 was a Category 'B' project that triggered three safeguards policies – OP4.01
Environmental Assessment, OP 4.09 Pest Management, and OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. As an emergency
operation, processed under OP 8.50, safeguards documents did not need to be approved and disclosed prior to
appraisal.

The ICR p.13 reports that environmental and social safeguards were rated satisfactory in the implementation status
reports throughout the implementation of the project.

Environmental Assessment : The Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the program was
disclosed in the country and at the World Bank InfoShop on March 4, 2008, two months after the phase- 2 project
effectiveness date. An environmental consulting firm was engaged to manage and oversee the execution of the
project, as agreed at preparation, as local capacity for environmental and social management was weak. As reported
by the ICR p.13, "the PMIU and the consultants worked closely with the ministries and agencies concerned to ensure
that contractors complied with Bank safeguard policies and using the methodologies and procedures for
implementation of the project specified in the project". In other sections of the report, however, the ICR points to
several weaknesses in the PMIU implementation (i.e., weak coordination with the ministries), difficulties in accessing
project sites and obtaining visas for consultants; these issues are not discussed in this section and how these were
overcome for supervision of the compliance with the safeguards policies.

Pest Management: This safeguard policy was not applicable to Phase 2.

Involuntary Resettlement : The ICR does not provide details whether there were any instances of involuntary
resettlement.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: As explained by the ICR p.13, low procurement capacity in the line ministries and local authorities
resulted in the submission of poor quality, incomplete, and disorganized procurement documentation to the PMIU,
which in turn, submitted incomplete packages to the Bank, leading to substantial procurement delays. The
disbursement substantially improved over the period April 2011 to May 2012 when a new Program Coordinator was
appointed by the government and a new project team leader by the Bank. Despite these improvements, the
preparation of tender packages remained a challenge throughout the project implementation. Overall, the Bank
procurement rules were followed without exception (ICR, p.13).

Financial management. The ICR p.13 reports that throughout the implementation of the phase- 2 project, external
audits were provided in a timely fashion and all were unqualified. Quarterly reports by the PMIU provided details on
the financial aspects of each activities funded by the project. According to the ICR p.13, the necessary actions were
taken to address identified weaknesses.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       Institutional and procurement capacity
                     Outcome:                                                 remains weak.

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Two lessons are selected from the ICR, with some adaptation of the language:

    Emergency operations should have a simple design to facilitate prompt implementation and completion. In a
     post-conflict environment, emergency operations help address urgent and pressing needs, while often in an
     environment of widespread and systemic weaknesses in public agencies.

    Progress monitoring and mid- course project review are important tools to detect issues in project
     implementation and take corrective actions on time. Under this project, as there were several changes in the
     project team leadership and program coordinator, lack of the adequate M&E implementation and the mid--term
     review exacerbated the project implementation.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is concise and informative. The report clearly describes issues and factors that impacted project
implementation. The efficacy section is generally output-oriented, however the ICR team took an effort to supplement
the report with research providing additional evidence of benefits from infrastructure improvements, i.e., rural roads
(Annex 4). The lessons were rather broad. The ICR should have provided an assessment of the procurement and
financial management systems of the project- supported agencies, in particular if this was part of the project outcome
indicator. The ICR often mentions the implementing agencies, however in section 9b only indicates the PMIU. The
reports should have provided more details on compliance with safeguards, as the project involves a substantial
amount of infrastructure works; also, it should have mentioned whether there were any instances of involuntary
resettlement. One minor remark: footnote 23 does not provide correct reference to page # in the Technical Annex.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
