Report No. PIC3154
Project Name                   Algeria-Low-Income Housing Project (@)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Housing
Project ID                     DZPA42940
Borrower                       Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Housing, Algiers, Algeria
Contact: Mr. Bouchenak, Director of
Studies
Tel. 213.2.74.73.72
Fax. 213.2.74.75.43
Date initial PID prepared      January 1996
Date this update prepared      February 1997
Project Appraisal date         June 1997
Project Board date             September 1997
Background
1.   Ten years of economic decline combined with a population growth of
2.7 percent, a 20 percent per capita income drop since 1985 and high
unemployment have all seriously affected the issue of Algerian society.
Rapid urban migration, encouraged by past agricultural and industrial
policies, has resulted in a severe housing shortage and growing
environmental problems, giving rise to an overall housing shortage
estimated at two million units for a population of 26.7 million and 4
million households. The occupancy ratio of 8.5 persons/unit is one of
the highest among middle-income countries. Moreover, the housing stock
is in need of upgrading since 55 percent of existing dwellings were
built before independence and 10 percent do not meet basic standards of
safety and hygiene. This housing crisis has led to a rapid development
of slum areas (bidonvilles).
2.   The Government's willingness to upgrade slum areas and to undertake
a new approach has grown over the past few years and is now a top
priority. During 1995, the Ministry of Housing successfully launched
pilot operations aiming at reducing completion delays and construction
costs for housing the poor. The project would build upon these
initiatives to further improve the affordability of housing programs by
the poor, incorporate private participation in these programs, and thus
expand and speed up the slum upgrading process in Algeria.
Project Objectives
3.   The main objective is to improve access to basic services and
upgrade housing for the urban poor concentrated in slum areas and
illegal settlements in Algeria. The project will launch new policies
for land servicing and house upgrading which will: (a) increase
participation of the private sector, resident associations and



beneficiaries; (b) regularize tenure; (c) use planning standards to
avoid excessive land use and extensive relocation; and (d) implement
innovative financing schemes that can be adapted to household incomes.
Project Description
4.   The project will address part of the slump upgrading issue in
Algeria by proposing to upgrade illegal settlements corresponding to
80,000 lots, and the reconstruction of about 15,000 slum dwellings.
From a list of proposed developments already established by the Algerian
Government or its representatives at the local level, the Bank will
select a significant representative sample, as a first set of pilot
subprojects. An overall framework with agreed criteria on subproject
selection drawn up on the basis of this first set, will help the
Algerian Government to prepare the next set of subprojects which will be
appraised during the four years of the project. Three categories will
be represented: (i) settlements lacking basic services and adequate
sanitary facilities with satisfactory housing, and where only
infrastructure construction will be needed; (ii) illegal settlements
where both infrastructure and housing construction are needed; and (iii)
new developments. The selected subprojects will serve as illustrations
of best practice for technical design, financing, environmental and
socioeconomic assessment, and institutional set-up.
5.   The proposed project will consist of three components: (i) basic
infrastructure improvement such as streets, water supply, sewerage,
drainage, electricity, and/or solid waste management; this component
will also include land titling; (ii) low-cost housing construction and
upgrading through financing or supply of core units to families
according to their income level; and (iii) a training and technical
assistance component to implement the design studies, and strengthen
management and maintenance systems of project agencies.
Project Benefits
6.   The project would substantially improve urban services, sanitary
conditions, and housing quality and it would benefit about 500,000
people, most of them from the poorest strata of society. Moreover, the
project would improve rehabilitation management and institutional
arrangements, and would contribute to the implementation of the housing
reform program, facilitate privatization of local construction
enterprises, and facilitate title trading for the poor.
Project Implementation
7.   Institutional framework   CNL (Caisse Nationale du Logement) will
play the main role, coordinating the project and managing its resources
(both from the loan and the Fonds National pour le Logement-FONAL). It
will coordinate the activities of the agencies and the private sector
and reimburse the construction enterprises contracted with the
implementing agencies (AFL-Agences foncijres locales, AADL-Agence
d'amelioration et de developpement du Logement, and DUCH-Direction de
l'Urbanisme, de la Construction et de l'Habitat).
8.   The Government will contract with a consultant before appraisal to
- 2-



manage the technical aspects of the project. This unit will review: (i)
the implementing agencies; capacity; and (ii) the criteria for
subproject appraisal during implementation. Each implementing agency
will be responsible for a particular set of sites. It will obtain title
to the land, carry out competitive bidding (using Bank guidelines), and
supervise the construction of buildings and infrastructure.
9.   Construction of core houses of 35 to 50 square meters or
improvement of dwellings would be financed by a combination of up-front
grants, loans and down payments. Distribution between them would depend
on the household income and the application of a new housing subsidy
scheme to be set up in the framework of the ongoing Housing Completion
and Sector Development Project (Loan 3561-AL) and the proposed Housing
Sector Adjustment Loan (HSAL). A beneficiary's down payment may vary
and be marginal for the poorest. Up-front grants would be managed by
CNL and loans by CNEP as newly restructured under the HSAL; a line of
microcredit could also be established for low-income families;
beforehand, ANC (Agence Nationale du Cadastre) along with CF
(Conservation Foncijre) would register land and deliver land titles. On
a pilot basis, local residents' associations would participate in
beneficiary selection. Involvement of local residents in the subproject
design and financing will greatly facilitate the process.
10. The Social Safety Net mechanism could be applied in a few specific
cases if the Government is interested and would have a double objective:
(i) promote labor intensive construction; and (ii) assist the Social
Safety Net project in promoting a bottom-up approach.
Project Financing
11. Total project cost is currently estimated at US$200 million with a
proposed Bank loan of US$100 million. Cofinancing prospects are being
sought.
Project Sustainability
12. Appropriate urban standards would increase the affordability of
lots and housing units, while cost recovery would be sought through
municipal taxation and payment against land titles. The proposed
Housing Infrastructure project (FY99) under preparation will increase
substantially the serviced land supply to prevent the extension of slum
areas. This will support overall sector improvement beyond project
completion.
Lessons from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
13. The Bank's past operations in the sector include two housing sector
works, the Housing Completion Project and the Social Safety Net Project
under preparation, and the Mascara Emergency Reconstruction Project.
Project objectives and conditionalities will build upon the experience
of these operations.   Experience from recent projects in this country
shows that the
preparation process could take longer due to bureaucratic procedures or
other unexpected issues, such as the absence of field missions.
- 3 -



14. The ex-post evaluation of similar projects in Tunisia, Venezuela
and Ethiopia points to three critical issues for project success: (a)
strong involvement of local residents through participation of local
organization; (b) emphasis on institutional aspects; and (c) keeping
demolition and property relocation to a minimum. The proposal to use up-
front grants to increase housing affordability could benefit from the
Chilean experience.
Environmental Aspects
15. A large measure of flexibility is proposed for environmental
aspects to address the 'emergency' issue of preparation: each of the
subprojects would be classified according to its environmental impact,
and the overall project is tentatively proposed in category 'A'. Street
paving and storm drainage will produce significant reduction in erosion
and significant benefits in the disposal of unsanitary material.
Sewerage and solid waste disposal, however, will require special
safeguards.
Program Objective Categories
16. Since the population from slum areas belongs to the 20 percent
lowest category, the project will help alleviate poverty. It would also
promote private construction enterprises and would facilitate the
development of microenterprises under the privatization program.
Contact Point:            Ms. M. Gautier, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-7132
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 21, 1997.
- 4 -



