Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17393-AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
POPULAR AND DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 1997)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
DZD I= USD 0.0172
USD I = DZD 58.0053
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYlMS
AADL       Agence d 'Amelioration et de Developpement du Logement
(Housing Improvement and Development Agency)
ADB        African Development Bank (Banque Africaine de Developpement)
AFD    :  Agence Francaise de De'veloppement (French Development Agency)
ANC   :  Agence Nationale du Cadastre (National Cadastre Agency)
APC    :  Assembleie populaire Communale (local government)
APD    :  Avant-Projet Detaille (Detailed Design Study)
APL        Adaptable Program Loan (Pret a des Programmes Evolutifs)
APS        Avant-Projet Sommaire (Summary Subproject Design)
CAS    :  Country Assistance Strategy (Strategie d 'Assistance au Pays)
CNL   :Caisse Nationale du Logement (National Housing Agency)
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment (Evaluation de l 'Impact Environnemental)
ERR    :  Economic Rate of Return (Taux de Rentabilit6 Economique)
FRR        Financial Rate of Return (Taux de Rentabilite Financier)
FONAL:  Fonds National d'Aide du Logement (National Housing Fund)
GoA        Gouvernement d'Algerie (Government of Algeria)
HSIL       Housing Sector Investment Loan (Pret d 'Investissement au Secteur de l 'Habitat)
ICB    :  International Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offres international)
IRR        Internal Rate of Return (Taux de Rentabilite Interne)
LDU    :  Directions de I 'Urbanisme (Local Directorates of Urban Planning, MoH local offices)
LG         Local governments (collectivites locales)
LIH        Low-Income Housing (Resorption de I 'Habitat Preicaire, RHP)
MoF    :  Ministere des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MoH        Ministere de I 'Habitat (Ministry of Housing)
NCB    :  National Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offies national)
NGO   :  Nongovernmental Organization (Organisation Non Gouvernementale)
NPV    :  Net Present Value ( Valeur Nette Actuelle)
OD         Operational Directive (Directive Operationnelle de la Banque)
ONS        Office National de la Statistique (Statistic National Office)
OPGI  :  Office de Promotion et de Gestion Immobiliere (Public Housing and Development Agency)
PAD        Project Appraisal Document (Document d'Evaluation du Projet)
PGF        Process Guidance Framework (Manuel de procedures)
RHP        Resorption de I 'Habitat Precaire (Low-Income Housing, LIH)
SM         Staff-Month (Homme-Mois)
SME        Small & Medium-scale Enterprise (Petites et Moyennes Entreprises, PME)
SNMG  :  Salaire National Minimum Garanti (National Minimum-Guaranteed Salary)
SU         Support Unit (Unite de support)
TA         Technical Assistance (Assistance Technique, AT)
Vice President: Kemal Dervi§
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maryse D. Gautier



Algeria
Low-Income Housing Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Program               &    Project Development Objective ...........................................................                             2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .....................    2
B.  Strategic  Context ................................................................2
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by the project ....................                                ......................     2
2.  Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ..................................................                                    2
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by  the project and  strategic choices ..........                                     .......      4
C.  Project Description  Summary  ........................                                     ........................................             5
1. Project components .........................................................5
2.  Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the project ............                                      ...........     6
3.  Benefits and  target population .........................................................6
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..............................................                                      6
D. Project Rationale ................................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection  ...............                                   ................     8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies 9
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the project design ...................                               .....................     9
4.  Indications of Borrower commitment and  ownership .................                                        ....................  10
5. Value  added  of Bank  support in  this project ..................................                          .................     10
E. Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                                                        10
1. Economic ........................................................                                                                 10
2. Financial ........................................................                                                                 11
3. Technical ........................................................                                                                11
4.  Institutional ........................................................                                                           13
5. Social ........................................................                                                                   13
6. Environmental assessment ........................................................                                                 14
7. Participatory approach ................                                                                                            15
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                         15
1. Sustainability ........................................................                                                           15
2. Critical risks ........................................................                                                           16
3.  Possible controversial aspects .........................                               ...............................           16



Page
G. Main Loan Conditions .................................................................   17
1. Effectiveness conditions .................................................................   17
2. Other .................................................................    17
H. Readiness for Implementation .................................................................  17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................................  17
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .18
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .20
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4.  Cost Benefit Analysis .25
Annex 5.  Financial Audit Summary .33
Annex 6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .40
Table A.  Procurement Method .42
Table Al.   Consultant Selection Arrangements .43
Table B.         Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .44
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds .45
Annex 7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .46
Annex 8.   Documents in the Project File .47
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits .48
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .50
Map              IBRD No. 29619



Algeria
Low-Income Housing Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Infrastructure Development Group
Date: June 1, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maryse Gautier
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie        Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: 42940     Sector: Urban                Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan        [I Credit      [] Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Other:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$150m
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency      [ x] Single currency, US$
Grace period (years): 3          [    Standard Variable  [ x] Fixed         [    LIBOR-based
Maturity for each
disbursed amount: 9
Final loan maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government of Algeria                                    64.0                2.2             66.2
Communes                                                  2.1                -                2.1
IBRD                                                     45.4              104.6            150.0
Total       111.5             106.8            218.3
Borrower: Government of Algeria
Responsible agency: Ministry of Housing - Caisse Nationale du Logement (CNL)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):                           1999      2000      2001     2002
Annual                            20.5      49.7      62.2      17.6
Cumulative                            20.5      70.2     132.4    150.0
Project implementation period: 1999-2002  Expected effectiveness date: 10/1998    Expected closing date: 12/2002
OSD PAD Form



Algeria                                    Page 2                        Low-income Housing Project
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the project is to assist the Government of Algeria to improve the living and housing
conditions of the residents of urban slums and nonserviced low-income areas in an efficient, sustainable
way. This will be done through the implementation of a program of investments for the provision of
affordable housing and service infrastructure for about 50,000 households living in 750 hectares of slums
and nonserviced land in the wilayas of Algiers, Oran, Constantine, Annaba, Blida, and Tipaza and such
other wilayas as may be agreed upon between the Government and the Bank.
To achieve this goal, the project will: (a) improve the affordability and financing mechanisms for low-
income housing; (b) increase direct cost recovery from beneficiaries, (c) increase the efficiency of
technical design of low-income housing; (d) assist the institutions at the central and local level in
delivering their responsibilities within the project; (e) improve environmental and social policy; and
(f) strengthen the institutional capacity for tenure regularization.
Key performance indicators of progress toward project objectives will be measured by: (a) the ratio of
housing units located in slums and illegal encroachments as compared to initial figures for the selected
wilayas; (b) the share of low-income housing subsidies accruing to households with incomes of less than
2 minimum wages per month; (c) overall funding and share of public transfers into the National Housing
Fund (Fonds National d'Aide au Logement, FONAL); (d) Share of cost recovered directly from
beneficiaries; (e) average construction and infrastructure cost per housing unit and per square meter;
(f) site development contracts and maintenance plans prepared by local authorities; (g) the evolution of
the living standards of the poor in the selected sites, measured through socioeconomic impact
assessments; and (h) time lag between infrastructure completion and land title delivery.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15316-AL    Date of latest CAS discussion: February 5, 1996
The project supports one of the key priorities of the CAS for Algeria, namely the protection of the poor
during the current political transition through targeted operations. The guiding principle stated in the
assistance strategy is to maximize results on the ground through selected interventions that would make
an immediate difference in the lives of people. The project will directly affect the living and housing
conditions of slum residents and support the policy reforms leading to improved targeting and efficiency
of the Government low income housing programs and adequate institutional capacity for the sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Critical Shortages in HousingAvailability and Quality. The average annual increase in housing did not
exceed 2 percent between 1962 and 1995, while population has been growing at about 2.7 percent a year
and the urban population at 5.4 percent a year; in urban areas, the deficit between supply and demand has
led to overcrowding in housing, and to the expansion of illegal settlements and slums. A 1994 MoH
survey shows that 400,000 urban housing units are unfit for habitation because of poor quality and lack
of access to urban services, and 120,000 slum dwellings are in urgent need of reconstruction. Slums and
shanty towns are concentrated in dense cities and, in addition with non-serviced encroachments, cover
more than 17,000 hectares countrywide. On the other hand, slums are centers of poverty,
unemployment, and delinquency and are zones of social exclusion; they are therefore a high Government



Algeria                                       Page 3                         Low-Income Housing Project
priority. Since the policy of providing rental units for the poor has failed to meet the expected objectives
in the recent years, the Government has shifted to a policy of providing site and services with core units
in full ownership to slum households. The current project will support this shift in policy, which will
save about DA 1,550,000 of subsidies per family (see Annex 4), or about US$280 million of the duration
of the project.
Main sector issues                              Government strategy
Inefficient Low-Income Housing Programs
The Government is providing housing units for rent at MoH has experimented with the construction of core
excessively high standard and cost, leading to subsidies  units with full ownership of minimum size (35-50 m2),
to match the rents with beneficiaries income. In 1997, supported partly by Loan 3813-AL (Mascara Emergency
the Government financed 20,000 rental housing units for Reconstruction Project), at a unit price 2.5 times lower
the poor. Structural works are still partly done by public  than that of public rental housing and completed in less
enterprises (on stand-by for privatization) while finished  than one year. The private sector, through small and
works are mostly undertaken by small and medium-size  medium  enterprises (SMEs), has been increasingly
enterprises. Therefore, construction costs remain at a  involved in the construction process.
high value as compared with neighboring countries.
In December 1997, GoA issued an interministerial order
(arrete') with explicit up-front grants geared at families
whose income is less than 4 times the minimum national
salary for the construction of housing units. In addition,
a new decree has been published that increases the rent-
to-income ratio for tenants in public housing to a ceiling
which remains affordable for the concerned households
(15 percent of income).
Land issues
Although a new law liberalized the land market in 1990, Efforts are still needed to fully implement the 1990 law
most of the public land was not made available to the  and liberalize the land market. GoA plans to make
private sector but was allocated to public entities at 80  public land available to the private sector through
percent below the market price.                  auctions, starting in 1998.
Moreover, to support land market development, GoA  The Government has asked for a 18-month extension of
has initiated improvement in land title delivery under the  the Cadastre Project and is preparing an action plan to
Bank-financed Cadastre Project (Loan 3488-AL). While  improve capacity of the Land Registration unit.
the cadastre Agency is implementing the project with
satisfactory results, the Land Registration unit, under
MoF, does not keep up with the mapping production and
land title delivery is slow.
Sector Financing and Cost recovery
The Government's objective is to address the issue of In 1997, GoA financed DA 5 billion for low-income
slum eradication in the medium term within a fixed  housing, supplying the equivalent of 25,000 housing
budget allocation. Such a policy therefore requires an  units to the poor. GoA plans to disburse DA 12 billion
increased efficiency in the use of public funds. On the  per year in 1998, and in the two following years,
other hand, cost recovery from low-income families is  according to the three-year Government Program.
almost nonexisting, since the Government used to fully  Beyond, GoA is committed to allocate the budget
provide land, servicing, and housing units to households. needed to upgrade all slums in the medium term.
A full cost recovery policy has been set up for private
land development, which is entirely financed by
beneficiaries. However, the financial burden of such a
policy has been mitigated for low income families living
in squatter areas. Direct cost recovery from beneficiary
participation is estimated at 20 percent. Indirect cost
recovery will be provided by local taxes and connection
fees. Total direct and indirect cost recovery for poor
_________________________________   households is currently in the range of 50 percent.



Algeria                                    Page 4                       Low-income Housing Project
Moreover, transfer of resources to FONAL from the
sale of public land by auction will contribute
substantially to Government financing. A sale of 1,000
ha of public land per year would provide about DA 3
billion to the fund.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The issues to be addressed by the project are as follows:
(a) efficiency of the subsidy scheme. The GoA has defined a new subsidy scheme for housing and
infrastructure works, with the objective of achieving more transparency and ease of implementation.
The amount of the housing subsidy varies from DA 250,000 to DA 350,000 (US$4,300 to US$6,000)
according to household income (see table). Priority is given to low-income households through a set
of criteria which includes the living conditions of the households, as well as basic indicators. The
subsidy is distributed to the developer in charge of the construction works through FONAL.
Income                          |Grant
I<2SNMG *|DA 350,000
2SNMG< 1<3 SNMG                   DA 300,000
3 SNMG< Ic4SNMG                   DA 250,000
* SNMG stands for the minimal wage, which in 1997 was DA 4,500 per month.
For developments targeting low-income beneficiaries, the Domain Directorate sells public land to
developers at a cost equivalent to 20 percent of the estimated market price. The developer, in turn,
resells the land to the beneficiaries for a pre-agreed price taking into account their affordability.
Currently, infrastructure costs are borne by the Government budget. But the new goal set by MoH is to
limit government participation to DA 75,000 per lot. Implementation of this new policy will be
supported by the project.
The subsidy scheme, implemented under this project, will be analyzed in a study to be carried out at the
mid-term review, that will review the implementation process and focus on the mechanisms to target and
reach households earning less than two times the minimum wage. The long-term goal is to optimize the
use of public fund for a better sustainability.
During the project implementation period, GoA will introduce systemic improvements, and will in
particular transform the 80 percent implicit subsidy on the price of public land in an explicit one by
adapting the subsidy scheme to maintain assistance to poor households. The mechanisms of sale of
public land will be revised at the mid-term review, and improved if necessary. Moreover, possibility of
distributing the up-front grant directly (vouchers) or indirectly (core units) will be tested at a pilot scale.
(b) Sector Financing. The project will introduce improvements in the following areas: (i) cost recovery,
through the adoption of a revised scheme to recover a higher share of the housing costs directly from
the beneficiaries; the midterm review will assess the results in terms of cost-recovery; and
(ii) transfer of resources to FONAL from the sale of public land by auction;
(c) Land issues. The following improvements will be implemented under the project: (i) mechanisms to
facilitate sale at market price of public land whatever the final use to be analyzed during the mid-
term review and improved if necessary (see para. B3a); (ii) technical urban standards adapted to
households affordability, and (iii) land titles delivered to beneficiaries at the end of the works;



Algeria                                    Page 5                       Low-Income Housing Project
(d) Efficiency of the slum upgrading and infrastructure programs will be improved by: (i) adapting
urban standards to the needs and capacity to pay of the population, while respecting urban and
sanitary regulations; and (ii) increasing private sector participation in developing infrastructure and
housing programs, by expanding competitive bidding procedures for housing and development
contracts;
(e) Supply of sites and services. The project will supply sites and services for low-income households
with (i) adapted standard to address the affordability of beneficiaries, and (ii) part of lots supplied at
market value for cross-subsidization and social diversity; and
(f) Strengthening management capacity of implementing agencies, through: (i) clarification of
developers role with respect to physical and financial achievements, and (ii) improved maintenance
of infrastructure and timely regularization of tenure.
The project will not address directly other constraints that affect the overall housing sector, such as the
withdrawal of public sector from supply of rental housing units, the privatization of rental housing stock,
construction industry issues, or the housing finance issue. These issues have been discussed during the
preparation of other housing operations and will be further discussed during the preparation of the next
CAS. Nevertheless, GoA introduced some of the proposed reforms in its new program (see Government
strategy, paragraph B2).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(a) The first component will finance civil works necessary to carry out subprojects to rehabilitate
existing sites and develop new sites through the provision of water, sewerage, roads, power, and
constructing core housing units.
The component will also monitor land title delivery to households before the end of civil works.
Technical standards will be adapted if resources are limited: in particular, road and electricity could
be phased when required according to household affordability. Cross subsidization, and local
government resources will be sought on a case by case basis.
(b) The second component will strengthen: (a) MoH capacity at the local level mainly through training
programs dealing with environment, subproject preparation and management, and (b) the National
Housing Agency (Caisse Nationale du Logement, CNL) with a comprehensive Human Resource
program. GoA will launch a study on Local Government fiscal resources of which TORs were
agreed upon. MoH will recruit a team of consultants, a support unit (SU), to provide assistance in
coordination and quality control during the project implementation (see para. C4).
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of     Bank-         % of
Contingencies  Total   financing      Bank-
(US$ million)        (US$ million)  financing
A. Site Development for low-income    Physical     213.5      98       145.8          68
families
B. Training, studies, and equipment   T. A. and      4.8       2         4.2          88
to strengthen MoH and CNL          institution
management, and project management  building
Total      218.3       100.0   150            69
of which taxes       19.6
Total without taxes     198.7                              75



Algeria                                    Page 6                        Low-income Housing Project
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) Supporting Government objective of increasing the annual housing budget to permit the
rehabilitation of slums in the medium term;
(b) Introduction of cost recovery mechanisms that will recover 20% of the costs of titling, and 30% of
the costs of serviced plots. The construction costs of core units will continue to be fully subsidized;
however, under the project household participation would extend the unit value to an estimated
DA 600,000;
(c) Expansion of up-front grants in kind, based on income (see B3a);
(d) Strengthening governance and accountability by the introduction of site development contracts
signed for each site, that will indicate the technical strengthening and financial responsibilities of the
developers, local Directorates of Urbanism (Directeurs de I 'Urbanisme), and CNL, in slum and
infrastructure upgrading;
(e) Revision of institutional mechanisms by CNL, including: (i) improving the payment system to enable
faster payment of enterprises, thus inducing higher participation by the private sector in the bidding
process at lower prices; and (ii) extending FONAL coverage to include infrastructure works; and
(f) application of lower, more appropriate standards for urban services in slum upgrading and in sites
and services for low-income population.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will directly benefit 50,000 households. The benefits will accrue to:
(a) urban slum residents through provision of affordable subsidized housing and land titles with security
of tenure and rights of disposal that will replace crowded substandard and unhealthy housing;
(b) low-income urban residents by the provision of urban sanitation, water, electricity and roads,
together with those in (a) above;
(c) people through the provision of affordable serviced lots with full title.
The project will also contribute significantly to the long-term institutional and financial sustainability of
the government's actions in low-income housing, as well as to the long-term rationalization of the land
market through faster titling processes, to a favorable climate for private sector activities and to overall
improvements in the urban environment. Moreover, it will strengthen the mechanisms for involving the
beneficiaries and other stakeholders in the preparation and implementation of the slum upgrading works.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Bank loan to the GoA will be managed by the Caisse Nationale du Logement (CNL) and the
Government will channel its financial participation through FONAL. CNL will be responsible for
executing the first component of the project, including managing the funds and monitoring the
implementation of each subproject. The selection of sites and subprojects will be based on proposals
from the Local Directorates of Urbanism (LDUs), and approved by the Ministry of Housing (MoH) in
accordance with eligibility criteria stated in the paragraph E.3 below. LDUs will contract the initial
design of subprojects (avant-projets sommaires, APS) with contractors, and select the developer. To
allow private participation, developer selection will be done by competitive bidding for part of the sites
and services. It will mainly be done by direct agreement for site upgrading. Developers will be in



Algeria                                   Page 7                       Low-income Housing Project
charge of preparing the detailed design (avant-projets detaillMs, APD), preparing the bidding documents,
and launching the bids.
A site development contract will be signed for each subproject among the LDU, the developer and CNL.
It will provide information on the respective roles of each intervening agent in subproject preparation,
payment collection, financing, and supervision. It will be based on a comprehensive set of studies
including an environmental impact assessment and a resettlement plan if required. These contracts
represent a change in the institutional framework in Algeria, and are expected to bring about increased
transparency and accountability. The LDU will decide the social and technical objectives of the
subproject, while CNL will undertake the financing of the subproject preparation and implementation
and closely monitor cost increases, and the developer will be responsible for the technical implement-
ation, including detailed studies and works, and cost, including any unjustified cost overrun. The site
development site development contract will be the main tool for private developers' future participation.
MoH will set the annual investment program, coordinate among local offices, and follow up on policy
implementation; it is assisted by the support unit (SU) during project implementation. The LDUs are in
charge of implementing national public housing policy. They will be responsible for subproject
preparation in a timely manner in respect with environmental, socioeconomic and technical
requirements.
The second component is implemented by MoH for general studies, SU, and TA related to central and
local offices, and by CNL for training, equipment purchasing, and studies related to CNL strengthening.
Executing agency
CNL was created as a statutory body by decrees 91-144 and 91-145 dated May 12, 1991. It is governed
by industrial and commercial regulations, and is under the supervision of MoH. Its main objectives are
to manage public funds for implementing the housing subsidy scheme, monitor and control allocation of
subsidies to households, and initiate studies, surveys or research needed to promote efficiency in public
housing policy. CNL has developed since 1991 to become a body of 160 staff with 35 percent of high-
level staff, including engineers. As the executing agency, CNL will monitor all rehabilitation and
development subprojects. CNL will supervise the financial assessments of developers as defined in the
site development contract, approve expenditures for the works proposed by developers and make
disbursements to the developers' subcontractors. It will also set up and manage a database on
beneficiaries, and ensure adequate monitoring of the objectives of each subproject.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
The Director of CNL will be responsible for financial management, reporting, and auditing of the slum
upgrading and infrastructure component, following procedures acceptable to the Bank. Accounting
records will be kept for each subproject's expenditures and financing according to generally accepted
accounting principles. CNL will submit to the Bank a semiannual report with projected and revised
cashflow per subproject, providing information on works progress and liquidity.
CNL will furnish the Bank with annual project and organization accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and including the auditor's separate opinion on the expenditures claimed
under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year. The auditor
is the MoF (Inspection des Finances). CNL will disburse the loan against civil works, and will keep
accounting records by subprojects.
An audit of CNL was completed in January 1998 with the objective of assessing CNL's current financial
situation and future capacity to manage the project. The auditors have found the management and
accounting system acceptable, and propose recommendations to strengthen some aspect of CNL's
organization, namely: (a) set up a new organizational scheme to adapt to new role, (b) improve the
computerized management system, including financial management, subsidy monitoring, and
supervision; (c) strengthen the human resources through a recruitment policy and a training program,



Algeria                                   Page 8                       Low-income Housing Project
specially in the finance department, (d) strengthen the audit department. The Bank has agreed with CNL
on the format of the financial reporting and on the steps taken for adequate financial management.
Moreover, the Government decided to finance CNL operating expenses in a sustainable way no later than
December 31, 1998.
For the training/TA component, MoH will furnish the Bank with annual reports on the training program,
recruitment actions, equipment purchasing and study implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. MoH will be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) arrangements of the Technical Assistance (TA) component and CNL for the infrastructure and
housing component. The M&E capacity of CNL and MoH have been evaluated during appraisal, and
adequate measures will be adopted as needed during project implementation. MoH will transmit to the
Bank semiannual progress reports with the assistance of CNL. A midterm review of project
implementation will be carried out jointly with the Bank no later than June 30, 2000.
Bank supervision. Given the project scope and the difficult security situation, the project will be closely
supervised by local consultants who will coordinate with Bank staff at headquarters, visit the sites on a
semiannual basis, and provide implementation reports and photographs, if possible. They will also
provide socioeconomic surveys one year after work completion on a selected number of sites. The
Cadastre Project has been supervised under these conditions for three years in a satisfactory manner.
Cofinancing. French Cooperation and African Development Bank (ADB) have agreed in principle to
finance (parallel financing) specific sites under similar appraisal and implementing conditions. The
Agence Francaise de De'veloppement (AFD) plans to coordinate with the Bank on the project concept,
and is ready to commit a FRF 70 million loan when agreement is reached on the Bank project. ADB is
planning a US$30 million loan for calendar year 1999, and will select new sites of slums and
encroachments under criteria similar to those of the Bank's loan. The European Union plans to finance
in parallel a slum upgrading project in the amount of about ECU 10 million.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A fast project with minor changes in slum upgrading policy would have been the main alternative.
About ten years ago, and again in June 1996, GoA attempted to eradicate slums mainly in the Algiers
area. However, this policy proved to be expensive and inefficient; the resettlement solutions proved
unsatisfactory. Therefore, GoA agreed to test other methods through the proposed project, based on a
sustainable policy framework.



Algeria                                   Page 9                       Low-Income Housing Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector issue                 Project                      Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Housing                        Housing Completion,            S                S
FY93
Land development               Cadastre FY92                  S                S
Emergency Assistance           Mascara Emergency             HU                U
Reconstruction FY94
Macroeconomics                 Structural Adjustment          S                S
Loan FY96
Land Development               Housing Infrastructure   under preparation
Project
Other development agencies
KfW, Germany                   Housing Project,       inactive
GTZ, Germany                   Cadastre Project        ongoing, in close
coordination with
the Bank
IP/Do Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Successful urban projects require an appropriate institutional framework and a strong government
commitment. For example, the Tunisian Government has been strongly committed for the last 15 years
to integrating poor informal settlements into urban areas and provided an institutional framework that
encouraged a partnership between the lead urban development agency and private developers, allowing
Tunisia to reduce dramatically the number of households living in non-serviced units. On the other hand,
in Morocco, the failure to completely achieve the institutional objectives significantly delayed the
gradual reduction of slums. The proposed project will address this issue by promoting an appropriate
institutional framework with identified agencies and by including extensive professional training
throughout the project. Encouraging a strategic shift toward private sector development and progressive
but nevertheless complete GoA withdrawal from direct supply should also result in significant efficiency
gains.
The difficulties encountered in recovering costs have demonstrated the need for sector fiscal reforms to
be addressed. In Tunisia, households proved willing to pay for serviced plots and creditworthy, and the
rapid rise in real estate values in the project areas provided a potential source of property tax revenues.
Based on that experience, the proposed project includes a study of the financing sources for FONAL, a
gradual increase of cost recovery from beneficiaries, and a more targeted and effective subsidy system
for low-income housing. In addition, a study aiming at mobilizing municipal resources and improving
their allocation efficiency which TORs have been agreed upon with the Algerian authorities, will be
completed under the project.
Previous housing projects in the region demonstrated the benefit of directly involving the population.
The households participated in kind and mobilized considerable private savings to continue developing
the core units. Such commitment is a guarantee of its long-term success in improving living conditions.



Algeria                                   Page 10                      Low-income Housing Project
The proposed project will increase involvement of local residents by increasing community participation
through representative community associations, and by providing home ownership for beneficiaries.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
Slum upgrading, for social and political reasons, is among the top priorities of the Government, and will
be the first problem addressed under the new housing policy. GoA's commitment to the project has been
confirmed by a series of important decisions taken recently, such as reforms already under
implementation (see para. B2), active preparation of subproject documentation, and agreement not to
relocate residents from the affected areas when the old sites are not environmentally acceptable. The
impressive efforts made by MoH to adhere to a very tight preparation schedule reflect the GoA's
eagerness to address slum upgrading issues in a timely manner.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been working closely with GoA on the urban sector since the beginning of the 1 990s, with
a program of sector reforms. The lending relationship with GoA in this sector has been policy
dominated, aimed at strengthening the dialogue and cooperation. The actual housing strategy is the
direct consequence of these discussions and the proposed project will be implemented under this new
strategy. GoA asked the Bank to finance this project so that the Bank would: (a) enhance the debate on
housing policy issues and facilitate the participation of other donors, (b) help GoA develop sustainable
new technical and financial methodologies to slow down the long-lasting housing crisis, (c) promote an
institutional environment which will favor implementation of the new housing scheme, and (d) provide
professional advice.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4).
[ X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 100.5 million; ERR= 17.2%
The cost-benefit analysis is built on an analytical model presented in Annex 4, based on the economic
lease value of new housing units, as a proxy for the overall benefits of the project. The model takes into
account improvement of the beneficiaries' living conditions, and costs stem from servicing of the land
and, when appropriate, demolition of shacks and construction of permanent housing. The model takes
also into account the economic situation of Algeria, and shadow prices have been applied for
construction costs and labor costs. Given the lack of information on the emerging rental market, still
highly disrupted by the public housing stock, a standard shadow lease factor has been applied for
computing the lease value. Results indicate a satisfactory ERR of 17.2 percent.
Sensitivity analysis focuses in particular on the economic impact of eradicating current shelters. The
internal rate of return proves robust to changes in critical hypotheses, such as estimation of existing
dwellings value, and standards for construction costs. Sensitivity is most significant to increases in costs
and the lease value factor: an increase of 10 percent of the former, or a decrease of 10 percent of the
latter lead to a drop of the ERR to respectively 12.5 and 13.2 percent.
Annex 4 also shows the fiscal impact of the project, that is critical for its sustainability. The efficiency
of subsidies under the proposed project shows a cost-efficiency factor of 4.4 times that of the concurrent
OPGI program (public rental units), meaning that for each household subsidized under the current public
rental housing system, the RHP program supported by the project will house 4.4 low income families.



Algeria                                   Page 11                      Low-income Housing Project
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The CNL financial audit is presented in Annex 5, which includes comments on the balance sheets and
income statements provided for the period 1994-1997. Estimates are made for the period 1997-2000.
Since CNL basic mission is to manage funds received from the FONAL, allocate them to targeted
households, and keep accountability of their allocations, no major financial risks are directly borne by
the institution. The only risk related to the project is the CNL's capacity in managing additional funds
coming from the Bank loan, as well as from additional FONAL allocations. This risk is low according to
the auditor, since the current management, financial and accounting system have been found
satisfactory. Both the auditor and CNL management recognize, however, the needs for strengthening and
expanding CNL main activities, particularly in terms of staffing, training, financial and accounting
procedures, internal auditing, management information system, filing system, regional decentralization,
and equipment. Action plans have been thus identified and are presented in Annex 5. The bulk of these
action plans will be implemented during the years 1998 and 1999.
As of December 31, 1996, CNL had distributed some DA 6.5 billion (US$112 million), or 67.2 percent
of its resource allocation, of which 97 percent were allocated to the RHP pilot program. The distribution
of funds and the number of grants among wilayas are decided by MOH. Then CNL signs agreements
with the wilayas stipulating the utilization of the funds. In 1995, 38 agreements were signed with 26
wilayas for 26,300 grants and 59 agreements were signed with 42 wilayas for 22,650 grants in 1996. In
1997, 22,564 grants were allocated and 45 agreements were signed for a total amount of DA 4.5 billion.
Administrative constraints caused initial delays in the disbursement of the grants. Such constraints are
now solved. The new target is 80,000 grants for the 1998-2000 period, including 40,000 grants for rural
areas.
Although the bylaws specify the conditions of the compensation attributed to CNL, the institution has not
received any remuneration to cover its operating expenses and the purchase of the necessary assets since
it was established in 1991. Its revenue has come from its statutory funds, invested on the financial
market, along with funds received from FONAL and not disbursed. These revenues have over-covered its
expenses until recently. However, the latter should not be used to finance CNL operating expenses, and a
separation between the two sources of revenue has been recommended. During appraisal, it has been
agreed with MoH that a provisional budget should be prepared indicating capital expenditure and
operating expenses, and proper resource allocation made available to CNL according to the bylaws no
later than December 31, 1998.
3. Technical.
The first component of the project will finance civil works, distributed between infrastructure and
housing construction. Described below are the eligibility criteria for site selection, subproject appraisal
and, more specifically, the presentation of technical parameters in terms of land development, urban
standards, and implementation.
Site selection criteria
MoH will select sites on the basis of physical aspects and development objectives. The site concept
document (fiche de projet), prepared by LDUs, will be approved by the Steering Committee within MoH
and subject to review by the Bank. The site concept document includes: (a) presentation of the site, with
perimeter, housing construction quality, infrastructure conditions, environmental situation; (b) census of
the population, identifying the beneficiaries and local associations; (c) social objectives of the
subproject; (d) tentative estimate of the financial plan, including govemment subsidies; and
(e) agreement from the communal council on site selection. The site concept document, when approved
by MoH and the Bank, will therefore provide all necessary information to launch preparatory studies



Algeria                                     Page 12                        Low-income Housing Project
(avant-projets sommaires). In particular, the concept documentation will provide data on expected
environmental and social impacts, and give a clear idea of the need for an environmental impact
assessment and resettlement plan.
Subprojects appraisal
Subproject appraisal procedures are based on the evaluation of preparatory studies and site development
contracts (as defined in para. C4) submitted to the Steering Committee by LDUs and CNL. The
appraisal documentation includes:
(a) a technical presentation of the subproject with mapping, urban design, infrastructure and housing
costs (avant-projets detailles);
(b) an environmental impact assessment, and a resettlement plan, if required;
(c) an economic assessment of the subproject with a cost-benefit analysis; and
(d) a proposed site development contract, as described below, providing information on the roles of the
DUs, CNL and developers, and a detailed financial plan with the anticipated cost recovery
mechanisms.
After agreement on appraisal documentation, LDUs will launch a local consultation to select a developer.
However, during the first phase of the program, most of the developers are likely to be selected from the
public sector since the slum upgrading process does not yet attract private developers. The consultation
through bids will be progressively extended over time when the private sector expands. The selected
developer will sign a site development contract with LDU and CNL, launch detailed design studies
(APD, avant-projets detailles), prepare bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, and, after selection of
the enterprises, supervise the works.
Technical overview
The project has been designed to speed up the preparation phase and implementation of works. The
project will increase beneficiary ownership through timely delivery of land title and provision of lots
affordable to low-income households. The land is mostly publicly owned, and will be purchased by the
developers before being developed and sold to the beneficiaries. Title delivery is the responsibility of
the Land Registration Directorate, under the Ministry of Finance (MoF). Titles or temporary use title
will be made available to households at the end of the works, after payment of their share in the costs.
Urban standards are selected to provide basic needs at a cost affordable to households: the size of
individual lots will not exceed 100 m2 unless required by specific reasons, such as topography; roads
design will adapt to the existing situation, avoiding excess land use, and might not be paved in some
cases; sewerage and drainage will be designed to lower cost while maintaining full efficiency, such as
superficial drainage systems, or semi-autonomous sewerage systems. Electricity might be limited to
public lightning and individual connections postponed in case of insufficient resources. The average cost
2
of servicing is in the range DA 1,300-1,600 per m .
The project will provide core units of 35 to 45 m2 to slum residents, built under construction standards in
compliance with regulations, including seismic regulation. The units will be acceptable under sanitary
conditions, with, at least, a room, kitchen and bathroom. Households will therefore be able to provide
their participation in kind by horizontal and/or vertical extension, at their own pace. The core unit is
worth DA 300,000 on average, and the unit after expected extension an estimated DA 600,000. On a
X      Temporary use titles (actes provisoires) are delivered by the private sector (notaires) in a timely manner.
They are transferable and mortgageable.



Algera                                     Page 13                       Low-income Housing Project
case by case basis, units can be built at higher cost than DA 300,000, provided that the developer can
secure LG's and/or beneficiaries' participation.
4. Institutional:
Project management. The executing agency, CNL, was described in para. C4. MoH has created a
Steering Committee (comite des aides RHP - Resorption de I 'Habitat Precaire) to carry out its
responsibilities in project implementation e.g., site selection, and approval of site development
contracts, before allowing CNL to start disbursing. The Committee includes representatives of MoF,
MoH, CNL. A central project implementation unit (Support Unit, or assistance a maitrise d'ouvrage)
will be established in the Directorate of Urbanism in MoH no later than December 31, 1998, to
coordinate between wilayas, ensure consistent quality of subprojects, monitor the timetable, and
coordinate with the Bank. The SU's staffing needs will include technical, economical and financial
expertise, as well as environmental proficiency. The project TA component will strengthen the central
and local offices of MoH and CNL through training and equipment acquisition.
5. Social:
Social issues arise most significantly in the slum upgrading sites, as the population will be rehoused in
situ or, where this is not possible because the pre-existing slum is in an environmentally unacceptable
location, on the nearest available new site. This aspect of the project will turn unsecured slum dwellers
into title holders with affordable core unit housing. The benefits, which are of more than two times the
costs incurred by the beneficiaries, are well known to the project affected persons, who look forward to
their new status. The actual process of reinstallation in the new homes is rapidly and collectively done,
with transport provided and minimal disturbance to schooling and work. Existing social studies indicate
a realistic expectation of measurable, sustained improvement in incomes, environmental conditions and
standard of living. The project approach conforms well to the principle of treating resettlement as a
development process. It is sensitive to the need to incorporate choice to accommodate the preferences or
needs of those distinctly above and below the prevailing socioeconomic levels (offering the options,
respectively, of own-built housing on superior sites, and social housing), and to the need to maintain or
improve livelihoods and income earning opportunities.
Since OD 4.30 (Draft OP/GP/BP 4.12) applies, the MoH has prepared a Process Guidance Framework
(PGF) for environmental and social impact assessment of subprojects. The PGF includes an
environmental assessment package and a resettlement policy framework (included in the Project Files,
see Annex 8) and the procedures to be followed for the purpose of conducting environment impact
assessments. Any subproject involving the relocation of local population will be the subject of a specific
resettlement plan that will integrate into the physical plan the outcome of the environmental assessment
and of a social survey to complement and refine as needed the available social information. These
resettlement plans will be provided by GoA based on the policy framework and the two models agreed
upon with the Bank. Moreover, based on these models, the environmental aspects of an operational
manual will be prepared before October 1, 1998, to detail procedures and ensure quality in
socioeconomic aspects of subproject preparation. This was agreed at negotiations and reflected in the
minutes of negotiations.
Social issues of particular concern to the Bank are: (a) avoidance of temporary resettlement;
(b) addressing the needs of any latecomers not included in the original census, provided their arrival on
the site was not specifically to obtain benefits; (c) provision for specially vulnerable households or
persons; (d) affordability of the scheme to low-income families and their ability to remain in the area and
derive clear measurable benefits; (e) the effect on social cohesion and livelihoods and economic
activities; and (f) the management of the process of resettlement itself, with particular regard to
consultation, conflict resolution and procedure for handling grievances. These matters will also be the
subject of downstream impact monitoring and evaluation.



Algeria                                     Page 14                        Low-Income Housing Project
Limited resettlement plans would be prepared for sites with works limited to service upgrading, where
less than 200 persons are affected by temporary or permanent settlement. Given the complexity of land
tenure, a case-by case approach will be used. Those being resettled who have no land title will benefit on
the same basis as those in slum upgrading, i.e. a choice of titled lot with core unit, serviced plot for own
construction or social housing, whereas those with title will obtain amicable compensation or, failing any
agreement, have recourse to legal remedies.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category: A
The project is expected to have an overall positive environmental impact. Furthermore, through the
improvement of environmental related infrastructure, the project is expected to benefit the health of the
concerned population. The project will: provide for sewerage connections to main treatment stations, a
service currently unavailable at all sites; enable collection of waste from small industries, currently an
issue in some sites; improve access for domestic solid waste collection; and build small parks. In
addition, environmental training will be provided to the relevant Directions de l 'Urbanisme in close
collaboration with the Industrial Pollution Control project, according to the training plan provided at
appraisal.
The Project is a category A project due to its resettlement impacts in some of the subprojects. Whereas
according to Algerian legislation housing projects are not subject to environmental assessment, this
project adheres to the requirements of ODs 4.01 & 4.30 (see Section 5). An Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) has been prepared for a sample of 12 subprojects, representatives of the slum
upgrading and settlement servicing sites to be selected in the project. An executive summary has been
sent to the Board, according to procedures, although slightly after appraisal. The twelve sites are located
in the wilayas of Annaba, Blida, Constantine, and Tipaza. Environmental aspects have been integrated in
the site selection and design criteria. The environmental assessment undertaken reviewed all the
environmental aspects of the twelve selected sites and ensured that relevant environmental measures
were integrated within the design of the project or undertaken by other agencies. Environmental
management plans have been prepared for ten sites and arrangements for supervision of the
environmental aspects have been detailed. Based on these selected sites, investments in environmental
infrastructure amount to: (a) 37% of project costs for the slum upgrading and settlement servicing sites,
and (b) 70% of the estimated Bank loan.
During implementation, all subprojects for enhancement and development of further infrastructure will
integrate environmental aspects in project design and be subject to further environmental review where
necessary (see Section C). The environmental aspects of housing will be part of the above-mentioned
operational manual which will be completed before October 1, 1998; related instruction will be provided
through the training component to ensure the soundness of the environmental aspects of the subprojects.
The manual will allow the Government of Algeria to operate with and respect environmentally sound
procedures in (a) the selection of future housing sites; (b) the preparation of environmental assessments;
(c) the integration of environmental measures in site preparation; and (d) project supervision.
The project environmental measures will be supervised by the RHP Steering Committee under the
guidance of la Direction Gdne'rale de l 'Environnement (DGE) of the Ministere de l 'Interieur, des
Collectivites Locales et de V 'Environnement. During the midterm review, the environmental criteria will
be reviewed with DGE and tightened if necessary. Improvement of the institutional procedure will also
be sought of to provide greater efficiency.



Algeria                                    Page 15                      Low-income Housing Project
7. Participatory approach:
Local communities involved in resettlement will be consulted in advance about the plans through public
documents made available locally. Local community organizations through their elected representatives,
and local government are fully involved in the resettlement process.
Identification/Preparation    Implementation    Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups      CON                CONS/COL               COL
Local governments                   CON                    IS                  COL
AFD                                 COL                   COL
UE                                 IS/COL                 COL
ADB                                  IS                    IS
information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration(COL).
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries are the residents of the slums and other nonserviced neighborhoods. The former
will benefit amply through obtaining housing and titled land at highly subsidized rates, as well as
through the provision of services. The latter will benefit from title and services. Positive impacts on
health, local community life and net domestic incomes are expected. Other affected groups are those
who settled on the site after the census and were therefore not included in the lists of beneficiaries.
These would be very few, as following the preliminary census, the community has collaborated to
prevent new arrivals. Any late comers will be dealt with on a case by case basis in the surveys and
resettlement plans. A special group affected, for whom special provisions will be made, are those
extremely poor or vulnerable persons unable to meet the costs, even with subsidy and assistance; these
are provided with rented social housing and are eligible for various types of municipal and state
assistance.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Local and communal governments, whose mandate is urban improvement; local contractors; local
leadership, who have a stake in the effective management of the resettlement process and the resolution
of any disputes.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Three aspects of the project will help promote sustainability:
(a) increased managerial capacities of MoH, CNL and local developers, with a direct benefit to
subproject quality;
(b) increased fiscal affordability of public low-income housing schemes, stemming from optimized
urban standards, more systematic competition for work contracts, and more equitably shared cost of
housing under the new housing subsidy scheme; and
(c) increased participation of local residents, with an increased beneficiary ownership and higher
probability of good maintenance practices for the new housing stock.



Algeria                                        Page 16                         Low-income Housing Project
2. Critical risks (assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives
Housing subsidy scheme is not implemented on  Moderate       The housing subsidy scheme has been
time and 1998 budget allocation is not                       published in December, 1997.
appropriate for the new scheme.                              Commitment of GoA on the 1998 budget to
reflect the new scheme and necessary
allocations before project effectiveness.
Participation of independent associations and  Substantial   Increased awareness of GoA after first
local residents in the neighborhoods not                     positive experimnents with local
promoted.                                                    associations.
Low cost recovery from inhabitants         Substantial      Inhabitants will get a land title when their
share of the land and service cost is fully
paid. Instruction Ministerial n° 01 /59M
states that the housing subsidy will be given
to households against the land title.
Project components to outputs
Commitment of MoH and local agencies to    Moderate          Discussions during project preparation on
implement reforms.                                          the overall framework should reduce the
risk. Moreover, close follow-up of
subproject preparation in accordance to
policy and assistance by a consultant.
Local implementing agencies to prepare select-  Moderate     The project preparation has revealed a high
ion of sites and satisfactory design of sites               level of ownership from the local agencies.
Time lag in administrative procedures      High              creation of a SU to assist MoH
Overall project risk rating        Substantial      Close monitoring of the security situation
The risks of extensive delays or not undertaking the project (disillusionment or impatience among local
communities, leading to social tensions and loss of confidence in the authorities) appear greater than the
risks of project imperfections. The MoH, whose policy and practice has developed greatly in the last few
years, is committed to a process of continuous learning and improvement, and has in the last few years
established a record of successful implementation of similar resettlement operations.
3. Possible controversial aspects:
There are local variations between schemes, and this project introduces a modest element of cost-sharing.
While slum residents are eager to benefit from the scheme, there may be some who compare benefits
unfavorably to prior practice that did not have an element of cost sharing. A broad and comprehensive
information strategy will be developed with the associations, with strong commitment from the
Government over stability in the new housing policy.



Algeria                                   Page 17                      Low-Income Housing Project
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness condition
Approval of an order (decret) allowing FONAL to finance infrastructure cost (see para. C2).
2. Other
(a) Support Unit staff will be selected by MoH and contract signed no later than December 31, 1998;
and
(b) Institutional improvements for CNL with a draft recruitment plan, a draft training program,
strengthening of internal audit December 31, 1998, adoption of plans and programs by June 30,
1999, a database for beneficiaries June 30, 1999, and a proposed computerized information system
by June 30, 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are expected to be ready by October 1998.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Maryse Gautier Sector         an-ude Villiard  Country             stian Iloie



Algeria                                            Page 18                                              Annex I
Low-income Housing Project                                                                  Project Design Summary
Annex 1
Algeria: Low-Income Housing Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators'   Monitoring                 Critical
and               Assumptions and
Supervision                Risks
CAS Objective                                                                     (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Protecting the poor and       Decrease in slums and non-    AADL: database on     GoA pursues its previous
addressing the desperate low-    serviced poor areas, as    housing               slum eradication policy
income housing situation,     compared to 400,000 non-
especially in city slums      serviced units and 17,000 ha in   MoH monitoring
1994
ONS (Statistic agency)
Project Development Objectives                                                    (Development Objectives to
CAS Objective)
Provision of affordable housing  Ratio of housing units located in  MoH, CNL      Costs under selected
and service infrastructure in low- slums and illegal encroachments                standards unaffordable for
income areas of 6 wilayas, in a   as compared to initial figures for              the poor
sustainable manner           the selected wilayas
Number of households          MoH, technical services New policies constrained by
benefiting from the housing and  of selected wilayas,  Past policies
infrastructure component      supervision missions
Project Outputs                                                                   (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
* Improved cost efficiency of   * Share of low-income housing  MoH, LDUs, and CNL   * Satisfactory budget
subsidy scheme                subsidies accruing to      reports, supervision     allocation under the
households with incomes of   missions                subsidy scheme
less than 2 minimum wages
per month
* Overall funding and the share  MoF, MoH           * Slow implementation of
of public transfers into the                        new transparent policies
overall funding of the
National Housing Fund
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full
impact.



Algeria                                          Page 19                                             Annex 1
Low-Income Housing Project                                                                Project Design Summary
* Affordable housing units   * Share of cost recovered    LDUs and CNL          * Low cost-recovery from
for the poor, and improved   directly from beneficiaries    reports, supervision  people living in slums
cost recovery                                           missions
* Increased cost efficiency of   * Average construction and  CNL reports,       * Developers willing to
technical design             infrastructure cost per    Developers, AADL        comply with these
housing unit and per sq.   statistics              arrangements
meter
* Strengthened institutions,  * Site development agreements  LDUs reports and   * Adequate managing
and clear role of            and maintenance plans      supervision missions    capacity of CNL
stakeholders at local level  prepared by local authorities  MoH, CNL
* Monitoring of training
program implementation
* Improved environmental     * Resettlement plans prepared   CNL and LDUs       * Active participation of
and resettlement policy      and approved               independent             independent
socioeconomic impact    associations, and local
* Positive social impact     * Dropout rates for households  assessments with     inhabitants
unable or unwilling to accept  beneficiary and
the new conditions         community association
participation
* Evolution of living standards
of the poor on selected sites,
measured through
socioeconomic impact
assessments
* Improved administrative    . Time lag between           Cadastre Agency and    * Slow administrative
capacity for tenure         infrastructure completion   Land registration (under   procedures form the
regularization               and land title delivery    MoF) indicators         Land Registration
Department (MoF)
Project Components                                                              (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a detailed
description.]
* Site development for low-    * Civil works including    CNL reports,          * Strong commitment of
income households            preoperational studies,    supervision missions,   MoH and local agencies
infrastructures, construction   photo surveys      to implement reforms
works: US$213.5 million
* Local implementing
agencies to prepare
timely selection of sites
and satisfactory design
* Institutional strengthening  * Institutional and Technical    MoH developers audits    of sites
of MoH and CNL through       Assistance development:    and supervision
training and advisory        US$4.8 million             mission               * Time lag in
services                                                                        administrative
procedures



Algeria                               Page 20                                     Annex 2
Low-Income Housing Project                                                 Project Description
Annex 2
Algeria: Low-Income Housing Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Site Development for Low-Income Families -
US$213.5 million (total cost of component).
The component will aim at providing basic services and core housing units to people
living in selected areas, or supplying serviced lots to low-income households, in the
wilayas of Algiers, Annaba, Blida, Constantine, Oran, and Tipaza. Basic infrastructure
will be provided to all selected sites and will be implemented in two steps: (a) design
studies and implementation of civil works for land servicing, (b) housing core units
provided to households living in unsatisfactory units, and (c) land title delivery to
households in a non-regular situation.
(a) Infrastructure works: All sites will be provided with roads, drinking water, sewerage,
drainage, electricity, and open spaces. No solid waste investment has been planned since
solid waste is already collected in the existing settlements. Nevertheless, improved
infrastructure will further raise the quality of solid waste collection. Necessary space for
public equipment will be provided in the subprojects. The technical, environmental and
economic studies will be designed to adapt urban standards to the target population,
maintain the existing households on the sites when environmental assessment permits,
and address the ability of the beneficiaries to afford housing. In case of slum upgrading,
resettlement procedures may apply, and will therefore comply with Bank policies. New
street layouts may require relocation of a few houses but the objective is to keep this
number to a minimum. In such cases, the developer will ensure rehousing and allocation
of a new plot in accordance with national policies and Bank procedures.
The average infrastructure cost is estimated at DA 1,600 per m2. Therefore, the
component will service about 50,000 lots. Roads count for 35 percent of in-situ works,
water 18 percent, sewerage and drainage 23 percent, and electricity 20 percent . Land
acquisition which amounts to DA 100,000 per lot will be ceded by GoA to developers at
DA 20,000, and ultimately financed by beneficiaries. The component could potentially
be extended with cofinancing (parallel financing) by the French cooperation, ADB, and
the European Union.
Funding for the component will be provided by GoA, through FONAL, and managed by
CNL, which will also manage the Bank loan. For each site, funds will be allocated to
developers under a site development agreement (convention d 'operation) defining duties
and responsibilities of CNL, LDUs, and the developers, as well as its detailed financing
plan. Depending on space availability and market opportunities, additional funding will
come from the sale at market prices of selected services lots and will be included in the
financing plan. On average, direct cost recovery on infrastructure would amount to 38
percent of total cost, estimated at DA 70,000 (US$1,200) per beneficiary.



Algeria                               Page 21                                     Annex 2
Low-Income Housing Project                                                 Project Description
Developers will launch competitive bidding to small and medium-sized local enterprises.
They will provide justification of implemented works to CNL, which will disburse the
corresponding funds.
(b) Land title deliverv: Since most households are in non-regular tenure situation, the
project will monitor land title delivery. The developer will coordinate with the National
Cadastre Agency (ANC) and the Directorate of Land (Direction Generale du Domaine
National) within MoF, in order to deliver land titles when infrastructure works are
completed. In case the site does not have an original title, ANC and the Directorate of
Land will provide a temporary title and the full one in less than a year. The delivery of
the title to the owner will be made in exchange for their financial participation.
(c) Housing core unit: The project will provide to households previously living in slums
the housing grant in the form of a core unit (logement evolutif) of 30 to 40 m2 each, with
the minimum standards required. The housing units will include a room and satisfactory
sanitary conditions. The projected cost is around DA 10,000 per m2, and is expected to
decrease when competitive bidding is generalized for construction works. About 13,000
core units will be financed under the project. Most of these core units will be built by
SMEs, after selection through competitive bidding.
Site selection criteria and appraisal of subprojects
A Steering Committee at the central level of MoH will select sites proposed by MoH
local representatives, based on subproject concept documents (fiche de projet), with
review by PIU and the Bank. Parameters include housing condition, urban location, and
environmental conditions particularly the absence of basic infrastructure. The fiche de
projet also includes general objectives to be agreed upon by MoH, so that LDUs can
launch preliminary studies after site approval. The LDUs will determine whether
environmental impact assessments and resettlement plans are necessary at this phase. In
a second step, the Steering Committee, with the assistance of the PIU, will appraise
subprojects with technical studies, environmental and socioeconomic studies, proposed
site development agreement (convention d'operation), economic analysis, and maps.
Agreement from the Steering Committee and review by the Bank will pave the way for
the third step: the preparation of detailed studies and bidding documents by the
developers and launching of works.
A sample of subprojects within the component has been prepared in accordance with the
procedure as described. The documentation includes technical aspects, with maps and
cost estimation, financial aspect, environmental assessment, and resettlement plans when
required (see Annex 8).
Project Component 2 - Training, Studies, and Equipment to Strengthen
MoH and CNL Management - US$4.8 million (total cost of component)
The new housing policy set up by the Government represents a substantial change in
administrative and financial procedures. It will therefore require a comprehensive
program of training and studies to update data and knowledge and strengthen all entities
involved, and technical assistance and equipment acquisition to improve efficiency.



Algeria                               Page 22                                     Annex 2
Low-income Housing Project                                                 Project Description
MoH:
TA under MoH will amount to US$1.7 million and will include studies, training
program, and a support unit. The Government has agreed to launch a study dealing with
the resources of the communes (terms of reference available in project file). The
objective is to propose ways to upgrade and rationalize commune resources. Other
studies facilitate the setting up of the newly created housing database. AADL is in
charge of the implementation and launched two studies in 1997 related to rent market
analysis and building permit monitoring. The Housing Improvement and Development
Agency (AADL) has identified the need to proceed with other studies on: (a) real estate
market analysis, (b) land market analysis, (c) housing finance, and (d) performance
indicators.
Support Unit. MoH will receive assistance from consultants to facilitate subproject
preparation, coordination among wilayas, quality control, schedule monitoring and
disbursement follow-up.   This assistance will provide services for technical,
environmental, social and financial expertise, for an estimate of one hundred staff-
months (about US$1 million) for the project implementation time-length.
The training program will target MoH's central and local offices, and developers. The
objectives will be to improve: (a) subproject preparation, with economic analysis and
financial planning, and (b) subproject supervision by LDUs and the developers. A
specific training program aimed at strengthening LDUs in environmental aspects will be
financed under the Industrial Pollution Project. Acquisition of small equipement is
planned for an amount of US$300,000, targeting the LDUs.
CNL:
TA to CNL will amount to US$1.6 million and will follow an action plan as
recommended by the financial and organizational audit completed in March, 1998. The
major objectives will be to: (a) implement the new organizational scheme; (b) set up a
system for financing CNL's activities and project implementation no later than
December 31, 1998; (c) set up the national database of beneficiaries; (d) develop a
computerized management system and acquire the needed equipment including hardware
and software; (e) strengthen internal auditing; and (f) implement a training program.
The above objectives will be financed with: (a) about 20 staff-months of international
experts, who will contribute to a new organization scheme (3 s/m), internal audit (3 s/m),
computerized master plan and implementation (3 s/m), database set-up and
implementation (5 s/m), and training (6 s/m); (b) hardware and software equipment.
CNL will benefit from 1.5 percent of the loan amount to finance the project
management, among which 0.5 percent will finance the two above-mentioned objectives.



0
3
(D
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria0
Low-Income Housing Project                                                         0..
Components Project Cost Summary
(DA Million)                                 (US$ Million)
%     % Total                                %      % Total
Foreign    Base                              Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
Z      ~~~~~~CD
1. Slum Development           5,433    5,038    10,471       48       98     92.4    85.7   178.2          48       98    z
2. Institutional Strengthening  56      193       248        78        2       0.9     3.3       4.2       78        2     t
Total BASELINE COSTS            5,489    5,231    10,720        49      100     93.4    89.0   182.4          49      100
Physical Contingencies         704      769      1,473       52       14     12.0    13.1      25.1        52       14     w
Price Contingencies            658      583      1,242       47       12      6.1      4.7     10.8        44        6
Total PROJECT COSTS             6,851    6,583    13,434        49      125    111.5   106.8   218.3          49      120
p:\algeriaMid\42940\appr\costab\sumcom.xls
m
ao
CD 
a-=
02
CD



0
3m
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria 
Low-income Housing Project
Cr,
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (DA Million)  Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
1999    2000    2001    2002        Total    1999    2000    2001       2002     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition                   401      326        4        -       731      6.8      5.4      0.1        -      12.2           <D
B. Slum Development Works
Infrastructure                     1,067    2,858    3,685    1,053    8,664     18.1    47.0    58.9       16.5    140.5
Housing                             333    1,177    1,518      414     3,441      5.6    19.4    24.2        6.5     55.7
Subtotal Slum Development Works      1,400    4,035    5,203    1,467    12,105    23.7    66.4    83.1       23.0    196.2
C. Design and Supervision               37     103      132       38       310      0.6      1.7      2.1      0.6       5.0
D. Consultant Services                149       22       23       24       219      2.5      0.4      0.4      0.4       3.7
E. Equipment                           47        7        7        8        69      0.8      0.1      0.1      0.1      1.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                    2,033    4,493    5,371    1,537    13,434     34.5    73.9    85.8    24.1    218.3
m
p:\algeria\id\42940\appr\costab\eayrt.xIs
a ,0
0 >



Algeria                                    Page 25                                  Annex 4
Low-Income Housing Project                                                 Cost Benefit Analysis
Annex 4
Algeria: Low-Income Housing Project
Cost Benefit Analysis
The economic analysis has been carried out for settlement servicing operations as well as for slum
upgrading, which represents the larger part of proposed Bank lending.
1. Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows (DA million, mid-1998)
Benefits                                                12,945
Economic Costs                                          7,117
Net Benefits                                             5,828
Internal Rate of Return                                 17.2%
2. Main Assumptions
The model for calculating economic rates of return takes account of the major economic costs and
benefits resulting from subprojects for upgraded shantytown housing. Costs consist mainly of the
demolition of shacks, servicing of the land, and construction of permanent housing. The overall basic
objective is the improvement of the beneficiaries' living conditions, and it can be divided into the
following more specific objectives: improvements in the built environment and in urban service quality
and coverage, generation of employment, reductions in environmental risks, easier access to education,
etc. It is assumed that the various benefits of the projects are reflected in the economic lease value of the
units, except for the positive consequences on employment, which are taken into account separately.
Subsidized expenses are fully taken into account when calculating costs. The present analysis compares
economic benefits to real economic costs, not to beneficiaries' expenses, which are diminished by the
amount of subsidies involved. For instance, costs of land are computed on the basis of observed
opportunity costs and not on the basis of actual payments.
The subprojects fall into two main categories: slum upgrading and settlement servicing. Each of these
categories has been economically analyzed separately within a consistent overall framework. The method
used to assess slum upgrading operations is summarized in section 2.a below. The specifics of the
analysis carried out for site servicing are summed up in section 2.b.



Algeria                                     Page 26                                   Annex 4
Low-income Housing Project                                                   Cost Benefit Analysis
2.a Slum upRgrading
The cost/benefit analysis is carried out for an average housing unit to be built. It is then multiplied by the
number of core units to compute the actual values of flows for the whole project.
Economic costs
-  Land: the land is publicly owned, and plot prices are subject to an 80 percent reduction.
Consequently, the opportunity cost is based on land not subject to this reduction. The lag in
acquisition costs and opportunity costs is charged to economic costs progressively as
servicing is realized.
-  Unit to be replaced: the value of the shack to be replaced is estimated conservatively by
charging the whole value to the costs of Year 1. The value is the result of Bank field studies.
-  Servicing: servicing costs consist of labor costs and of resources use. Studies undertaken for
the proposed project have shown that labor accounts for 50 percent of servicing works. The
economic cost of labor is computed by the shadow price of labor costs in order to take into
account Algeria's high unemployment rate.
-  Construction: construction costs are calculated on the basis of average unit prices observed in
similar operations. Financial costs are converted to economic costs by using a conversion
factor to take into account the distortions of the construction sector in Algeria. International
standards indeed show that average construction costs for one square meter are close to one
minimum wage. Construction costs include costs of servicing works and of core units as well
as of further extension by the beneficiaries. These additional costs are made up by
participation in kind, mobilization of private savings, and mortgage financing, which becomes
available when the first floor of a livable unit is completed and the owner given a proper land
title.
Benefits
-   Improving living conditions brings various benefits which are internalized in the computed
economic lease value of the built unit. These benefits include savings in health costs, savings
in electricity costs, savings in transport costs, educational perfonnance, and savings in water
and sewerage costs. The economic monthly lease value is computed by multiplying the sale
value of the unit by a standard shadow sale-lease factor of 0.75 percent, derived from studies
of various housing markets around the world. As this factor is valid for markets without
distortions, it is applied to the shadow-priced, economic cost of construction plus land value.
The increase of land value over time is estimated conservatively: it is driven by land value
only.
-   Employment: according to the results of a survey of Government contracts for sanitation,
water supply, street systems, and housing, and from previous experience with similar
operations, it is assumed that labor accounts for 50 percent of servicing and housing works.
Economic value of generated employment is computed by shadow-pricing labor expenses in
order to take into account Algeria's high rate of unemployment.
The discount rate is the expected real interest rate of 10 percent. The internal rate of return calculated
from the discounted flow of net benefits is 15.9 percent for slum upgrading operations.



Algeria                                       Page 27                                     Annex 4
Low-Income Housing Project                                                       Cost Benefit Analysis
2.b Site servicing
Analysis of site servicing operations has been carried out within the same framework as slum upgrading
operations. The following comments summarize only the specifics of the economic analysis of site
servicing in comparison with the slum upgrading assessment.
Costs: costs are similar to slum upgrading costs, except for demolition and construction costs, which are
not present in this case.
Benefits: benefits from improved living conditions are evaluated by comparing the economic lease value
with the project to the lease value without the project. Before the project, the unit value is the cost of
construction decreased by average depreciation, which is estimated at DA 600,000 per unit. For such an
unit, the shadow sale-lease factor is lower than the standard international 0.75 percent for normal houses
and flats because targeted units are settled without land title and without access to any urban network.
Implementing the project gives the owner a proper land title and access to urban infrastructure. First, sale
value is increased by the economic cost of servicing works and by land value. Second, the development of
an illegal settlement in a serviced neighborhood raises the shadow sale-lease factor to a value closer to the
0.75 percent standard. In order to carry out a conservative evaluation, it is assumed that the shadow sale-
lease conversion factor does not fully reach the 0.75 percent standard, in order to take into account the
origin of the units and their depreciation over time, which is expected to be higher than the depreciation of
properly built houses. The sale-lease conversion factor is therefore assumed to increase to 0.60 percent.
The economic rate of return of site servicing is 19 percent.
2.c Overall analysis
The overall analysis results from adding the cash flows for slum upgrading and for site servicing. The
economic rate of return is computed on the discounted total flow of net benefits. The internal rate of
return of the project is 17.2 percent. Detailed figures are provided in the three following tables.



Algeria                                                                   Page 28                                                               Annex 4
Low-income Housing Project                                                                                                       Cost Benefit Analysis
General                       Service infrastructure    :CONOMIC ANALYSIS lOFSLMl UPGRADING                                     :         i
Lot surface (m2)          100 Unitfinancial costs (DAfm2)  1,600
Subsidized surface of
core unit (m2)             35 Financial costs (DA)       160,000                      I 
Shadow prcing of labor,
costs due to                  Labor (share of financial
unemployment              0.8 costs)                        50%                       i                                           |
Conversion factor for
construction costs due        Economic cost of labor
to sectonal distortions    0.5 share (DA)                 64,000
Opportunity cost of                                                        i
capital                   10% Total economic cost (DA)   144,000             _
Shadow pncing sale-
lease convertor         0.75%                         i                                                       _
Land acqulsition and value    Construction of housing units                                                 1 I             _       .
Opportunity cost of                            I                                                  1
land free of        i
shantytowns (DA'm2)      1,000 Unit financial cost (DA/m2)  10,000         L          L
Acquisition prce              Unit economic cost
(DA/m2)                   200 (DA/m2)                      5,000
Labor share                   50%i
Employment impact
______________________   (DAJm2)                       4,000 1
Economic cost of labor
share for subsidized
surface (DA) ,         I   70,000 
cost of demolished shack
CDA)                   I   25.a 
WORK PROGRESS                                         VALUES                COSTS    BENEFITS
Hbusing             ErpIoynent    ase                    net        net
Completion of housing  Land value unit value   annual     inpact      value    annual   benefits   benefits
Service        unIts (m2)        (,000 DA)  (,C00XDD     (.0l     (.0001   (l/ear) (.M M@  (,000M    (,000
Year 1                 60%               25               20        231        256         138       20,826      159        -97       -97
Year2               i  80%               50               68        433        202         113       38,988      152        -50        45
Year3                  100%              55               84        503         70          33       45,270      78          87
Year4                  100%              60               100       544         41         20        48,960      69         28         21
Year5                  100%              70               110       604         50          40       54,360      94    - 44            30
Year6                  100%              90               121       715        100          80       64,350      144        44         28
Year7                  100%             110               133       827        100          80       74,439 1   154 1 54               31
Year8                  100%             130               146       940        100          80       84,637      165        65         33
Year 9                 100%             140               161       1,005       50         40        90,455      130   |   80          38
Year10                 100%             140               177       1,021       0           0        91,904      92         92         39
YearI1                100%             140               195       1,039       0           0        93,498      93    r   93          36
Year 12                100%             140               214       1,058       0           0        95,252      95    T   95          33
Year 13                100%             140               236       1,080       0           0      j 97,182      97         97         31
jYear14             it100%              140               259       1,103       0           0        99.304      99         99         29
Year 15                100%             140               285       1,129       0           0        101,638     102        102        27
Year 16                100%             140               314       1,158       0           0        104,206     104        104        25
Year 17                100%             140               345   |1,189         0            0        107,030     107        107        23
Year18                 100%             140               380       1,224       0           0        1 10,137    110        110        22
Year19                 100%             140               418       1,262       0           0        113.555     114        114        20
Year2O                 100%             140               459       1,303       0           0        117,315     117        117        19
Year21                 100%             140               505       1,349       0           0        121,450     121        121        18
Year22                 100%             140               556       1,400       0                    125,999 j   126        126        17
Year23                 100%             140               612       1,456       0                    131,003     131        131        16
Year24                100%              140               673       1,517       0                    136,507     137        137        15
Year25                100%              140               740       1,584       0                    142,562     143        143        14
Year26                100%              140               814       1,658       0                  j 149,222     149        149        14
Year27                 100%             140               895       1,739       0                   i 156,549 -   157       157        13
Year28                 100%             140               985       1.829       0                    184,608     165        165        13
Year29                 100%             140          |1,083         1,927       0                  | 173,472     173   |   173         12
PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFITS (,000 DA)                                                                             1,237
PRESENT VALUE OF COSTS (.000 DA)                                               756     _               _
PRESENT VALUE OF NET BENEFITS (,000 DA)               j                                            i                    i                481
INTERNALRATEOFRETURN   |                       15.88%                                              i [



Algeria                                                         Page 29                                                     Annex 4
Low-Income Housing Project                                                                                     Cost Benefit Analysis
General                                 F -        ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SITE SERVICING
Lot surface (m2)   ____
Op portunity cost of capital  - -110%
SCF for labor costs due to unemployment        0.8
Shadow sale-lease convertor befreore servicing 01 . 3 5%
Shadow sale-lease conivertor after servicing ______________________________________
taking into account the depreciation of_________
the unit                                L 0.60%1
Land-acquisition and value    _____________
Opportunity_cost of land free of shanyon  D  1      ________   _____________                              ________
Acquisition price (DA/m2)                      200 ____   ________
Service infrastructure                  I___
Unit finiancial costs (DAIm2)                1,600
Financial coest,  (DA)__ -_ _ _ _ _ _      16,0      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Labor (share of financial costs)              50%
Economic  cost of labor s hare  (DA)        64,000   ______________                ______________                 ____
Total economic cost (DA)   -              144.000                                                               ____
Sale value of existing houses (DA)         600 000                                _____________
WORK PROGRESS   VALUES                                       COSTS    BENEFITSI ___    ___    ___
value              Increase Iactualie
Land     House    Lease    without                in lease  en131oynie!           net       net
value     value     vakue    project   annual    value  nt inpact benefits  benefits  benefits
___Service  (,00O DA) (,OOO DA)   ye       _MMar          D     (      j            WXD (.UI                 V
Year 1       60         20       706      50,661    25,200      106        238                 64        -42        -42
Year 2       80%        68       783      56,390    25,200       77        31        13   i   44         -33        -30
Year 3      100%        84       8286    59,616    25,200        46        34        13         47        2         2
Year 4      __100%      100      844       60,768    25,200      16        36         0        320                  15
YearS       100%       110       85       61,488    25,200       0         36         0        36         36        25
Years6      100%       121       865      62,260    25,200       0         37         0        37         37        23
Year7       100%       133       877      63,151    25,200       0         38         0        38         38        2 1
Year8       100%       146       890      64,110    25,200       0         39         0        39         39        20
Year 9      100%       161       905      65,164    25,200       0         40         0        40         40        19
Yearl     1000%    --177                 66,23      25,200      0         41         0        41         41        17
Yearl1l     100%       195       939      6~7,599  1125,200      0         42         0         42    ~ 42          16
Year 12     100%       214       958      69,002    25,200       0         44         0        44         44        15
Year 13     100%       236       90       70,545    25,200       0         45         0         45        45        14
Year 14     100%       259       1,003    72,243    25,200       0         47         0         47        47        14
Year'15     100%       285       1,029    74,110    25,200       0         49         0         49        49        13
Year 16_    100%       314       1,058    76,165    25,200       0         51         0         51        51        12
Year 17     1 00%      345       1,089    76,424    25,200       0         53        0a        5          53        12
Yearl18      100%      30        124    80,910    25,200         0         56         0         56        56        11
Yearl9      100%       418      1,162    83,644    25,200        0         58         0         58        58        11
Year 20     100%/      459      1,203    86,652    25,200        0         61         0        61         61        10
Year 21     100%       505       1,249    89,960    25,200       0         85         0        65         65        10
Year 22     100%       556      1,300    93,599    25,200        0         68         0        68         68        9
Year 23     100%       612       1,356    97,603    25,200       0         72         0        72         72        9
Year24      1000/      673       1,417    102,006   25,200       0         77         0        77         77        9
Year2S  1000/o  740   1,484   ~106,850    25,200       0         82        0         82        8 
Year26      100%       814       1,558    112,178  25,200        0         87         0        87         87        8
Year 27     100%       895       1,639    118,039   25,200       0         93         0         93        93         8
Year 28     100%       985       1,729 __124,486    25,200       0         99         0         99        99        8
Year2-9 -----100-%   1-,083-1,82          1-31,-578- 2-5,2-00    -0        106        0        1-06      106        7
PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFITS (.000_CA)            _____498_ ~
P-RES-E-NTVAL-UE O-F C-OSTS (.-000 CDA-)-                ___2_2_5 _ _
P RESENT VALUE OF NET BENEFITS (,000 DA)___27
INTERNA~L R-A-T-E OF RE-T-UR-N --          19.08%



Algeria                                                               Page 30                                                          Annex 4
Low-income Housing Project                                                                                                Cost Benefit Analysis
U   I   i            i         S                   !          I         F         T         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__________ _________  _________I_________
Number of serviced settlements       9977 Opportunity cost of capital         10%1 __ _
Numberof core units                  6444
COSTS                                               BENEFITS                                           NET BENEFITS
per                                                per
per core    slum     serviced  serviced             per core    slum    serviced  serviced
unit   upgrading  unit (,000 settlenient  total     unit   upgrading; unit (,000 settlerent   total    annual  actualized
(,000 DA)   (MDA)      DA)    S (MN        offiV    (,000 DA)   (MDA)      DA)    sMA         0         (MW       (M
Year 1          256       1,652       106     1,062      2,714    159        1,0261   64           639      1,665    -1,04'  -1049
Year2           202       1,300        77       766      2,067    152          97844        i      439      1,417      -650   -591
Year3            70,       450:        45       447       8971   78            503j   47           471       974         77    64
Year4            411       264         16       160       424    69            444    36           355       799       375    282
YearS            50        322          0         C       322    94            608    36    j      362       970        648    443
Year6           100        644          0         0       644    144           930    37 j         370      1,300      656    407
Year7           100        644          0         0       644    154           995    38           379      1,374      729    412
Year8           100        644          0         0       644    165         1,061    39           3886E    1,449      805    413
Year9            50        322          0         0       322    130           841    40   i       399      1,239      917    428
Year10            0           0         0         0         0    92            592    41           410      1,003     1,003    425
Year 11           0           0         0         0         0    93   |        602    42    1      423      1,026     1,026    395
Year 12           0           0         0         0         0    95            614    44  -        437      1,051     1,051    368
Year13            00 0                  0                   0    97   !        626    45 -         452      1,079     1,079    344
Yearl4            0          0          0         0         0    99   F        6401   47   j       469      1,109     1,109    321
Year15            0           0         0         0         0    102           655j   49           488      1,143     1,143   301
Year16            0           0         0         0         0    104   !       671j   51           508      1,180     1,180   282
Year17            0           0         0         0         0    107   1       690!   53   i       531      1,221     1,221    266
Year 18          .0           0         0         0         0    110   !       710;   56    ,      556      1,266     1,266    250
Year19            0           0         0,        0              114 0         732!   58           583      1,315     1,315   236
Year2O            0           0         O0        0         0    117   |       756!   61   1       613      1,369     1,369    224
Year21            0           0         0         0         0    121           783"   65           646      1,429     1,42'   212
Year22            0          0          0         0         0    126           812,   68   j       682      1,494     1,49    202
Year23            0           0         0         0         0    131           844j   72           722      1,567     1,567    192
Year24            0           0         0         0         0    137           6801   77           766      1,646     1,646    184
Year25            05          0         0         0         0    143           919    82           815      1,733     1,733    176
Year26            0           0         0 '       0         0    149   i       962    87           868      1,829     1,829    169
Year27            0           O         0         0         0    157   |    1,009    93            926      1,935     1,935    162
Year28            0           0|        0         0              165   j    1,061    99            991      2,051     2,051    156
Year29            0           o0        0         0         0    173         1,118    106         1,061     2,179     2,179    151
PRESENTV ALUE OF BENEFITS (MDA)                         _                                                  12,945
PRESENTVALUE OF COSTS (MDA) !                            7,117          i                             I
PRESENTVALUEOFNETBENEFITS(MDA)                     j _                                                ,               5,8281    5,828
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN        j              17.2%1         i          |



Algeria                                    Page 31                                   Annex 4
Low-Income Housing Project                                                  Cost Benefit Analysis
3. Sensitivity Analysis
The following critical assumptions were scrutinized through a sensitivity analysis exposed in the
following table.
Changes in Hypotheses from the Base Case Scenario-              Resulting IRR
All costs increased by 10% without raising any benefit                      12.5%
Value of existing dwellings to be replaced increased by 100%                15.7%
Standard conversion factor for construction costs increased by 20%          14.8%
Standard shadow sale-lease factor decreased by 10%                          13.2%
1. The above results demonstrate that keeping costs under control is key. The internal rate of return is
indeed heavily influenced by increases in costs: IRR drops from 17.2 percent down to 12.5 percent
when costs increase by 10 percent.
2. The highly satisfactory rate of return of the base case scenario does not rely on an underestimation of
the existing dwellings. The sensitivity analysis shows that multiplying the values of dwellings by 2
leads to a still high IRR of 15.7 percent.
3. The sensitivity analysis of the base case scenario shows robustness to high increase in standard
conversion factor for construction due to sectorial distortions. This is an important point because
international standards for construction costs in comparison with minimum wage are well known but
subject to some margin of appreciation.
4. The above results show a significant sensitivity to the shadow pricing sale-lease conversion factor.
IRR drops from 17.2 percent down to 13.2 percent when the sale-lease factor is decreased by 10
percent. This relationship is quite normal because evaluation of economic lease value is central to the
method carried out. The standard value of 0.75 percent is highly reliable with a very slight margin of
error. Evaluation of the economic rate of return does not rely on an overestimation of this sale-lease
conversion factor.
The above results show that the resulting highly satisfactory internal rate of return proves remarkably
robust to changes in critical hypotheses. This demonstrates sound economic relevance of the proposed
operations.
4. Fiscal Impact: Efficiency of Subsidies
This project involves Government subsidies, the impact of which is compared to the concurrent OPGI
program. OPGI public agencies build apartments to be rented at a price equal to 15 percent of
beneficiaries' income. In the OPGI program, GoA has therefore to subsidize the whole construction costs
as well as the difference between rent and maintenance costs. The quantitative analysis is summarized in
the following table.



Algeria                                    Page 32                                 Annex 4
Low-Income Housing Project                                                 Cost Benefit Analysis
Costs for Government
Investment Costs                                   Upfront Grant
Unit Construction Cost (DA/m2)             20,000  Average Subsidy for Land       80,000
Surface (m2)                                  75  Average Subsidy for Servicing    75,000
Construction Cost (DA)                  1,500,000  Average Subsidy for core Unit   300,000
Maintenance and Amortization Costs
Annual Maintenance and Amortization (DA)    97,500
Average Annual Revenue of Household (DA)   120,000
Effort Rate                                  15%
Participation of Households (DA)           18,000
Annual Subsidy (DA)                        79,500
Actualization Cost                           10%
Net Present Value of Subsidies
for ten years of Maintenance             517,801
Tota Subidi         it ;                2017,801  Total Subsidies (l)Alnit)      455 000
The above results show that the amount of subsidies for one OPGI unit would allow the construction of
4.4 units in the proposed project. This demonstrates the high fiscal efficiency of the proposed project in
comparison with the concurrent OPGI program, with an efficiency rate of 4.4.



Algeria                                 Page 33                               Annex 5
Low-Income Housing Project                                         Financial Audit Summary
Annex 5
ALGERIA: Low-Income Housing Project
Caisse National du Logement (CNL)
Financial Audit Summary
1. An institutional and financial audit was completed in 1997 by Centre National d'Assistance
Technique (CNAT) and Centre Specialise de Consulting (CSC). The final report was presented in
March 1998 although only the 1996 financial statement was released. It presents a diagnostic of
the prevailing situation followed by recommendations on changes which need to be introduced to
sustain the intended increase in the number of interventions (over 80,000 per year for 3 years
starting in 1998) and the implementation of the World Bank program.
2. CNL's mission is to manage the allocations of funds received from the budget for various
housing programs, allocate these funds, and keep accountability of their allocations. It is also
required to invest the excess of treasury on the monetary market and add its revenue to the funds
available for the financing of the program.
3. Since its inception in 1991, CNL managed the financial aids provided by the State, first with
the PLA program (Programme de Logements Aides) from 1992 to 1994, and then with the pilot
RHP program from 1995 on. It administers the funds dedicated to FONAL (Fonds National
d'Aides au Logement) to support the financing of social housing. It also realizes studies with
respect to housing financing.
Financial Audit
4. In 1996, CNL supported two programs: the PLA and the RHP. The PLA program provides an
aid mobilized through the CNEP (Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance) and composed of
grants disbursed over a short-term period as well as long-term interest subsidies (up to 25 years).
The PLA program was revoked in 1994 in favor of RHP. The RHP program is a direct (disbursed
in kind), up-front, financial grant (DA 250,000 for a housing core-unit and infrastructure) executed
within a one year period. This program, which is easier to operate, has been more popular than the
PLA. The growth of demand has required changes in terms of organization, staff and equipment.
Since 1997, CNL is in charge of managing subsidies for rural housing.
5. Total cumulated funds, received from the Budget since its inception amounted to DA 9,670
million or US$167 million as of December 1, 1996. CNL has distributed DA 6,500 million or
67.2 percent of this resource with 97 percent going to the RHP program. The distribution of funds
and the number of grants among wilayas are decided by the Housing Ministry (Ministere de
l'Habitat). Then CNL signs agreements with the wilayas stipulating the utilization of the funds. In
1995, 38 agreements were signed with 26 wilayas for 26,300 grants and 59 agreements were
signed with 42 wilayas for 22,650 grants in 1996. In 1997, 22,564 grants were awarded and 45
Exchange rate as of 12/31/1996: DA 58 per US$. This indicative amount in US$ does not take into
consideration the exchange rates of the previous years.



Algeria                                  Page 34                                Annex 5
Low-income Housing Project                                           Financial Audit Summary
agreements were signed for a total amount of DA 4.5 billion. Administrative constraints caused
initial delays in the disbursement of the grants. Such constraints are now solved. The new target
is 80,000 aids for the 1998-2000 period.
6. The bylaws2 specify the conditions of the compensation attributed to CNL, but the institution
has not received any remuneration to cover its operating expenses and the purchase of the
necessary assets since it was established in 1991. Its revenue has come from the income from its
statutory funds, invested in the financial market along with funds received from FONAL and not
disbursed. The revenues from the statutory fund have over-covered its expenses until recently. The
revenues from FONAL should not be used to finance CNL operating expenses, and a separation
between the two sources of revenue has been recommended. Once CNL will have to rely on its
own source of funds, the decline of interest rates and the increase in its activities will make it
difficult to cover its operating expenses. It has been agreed with MOH that a provisional budget
should be prepared indicating capital expenditure and operating expenses, and proper resource
allocation made available to CNL before Board presentation.
7. Capital expenditure program (offices, equipment, supplies) has been very deficient since the
creation of the CNL due to lack of identified resources (Statutory Funds should have been used for
this purpose). The RHP program, supplied by a larger amount of funds provided by the budget will
certainly require a larger number of well-educated staff and proper equipment.
8. The audit considers that the Finance and Accounting Department is well organized, but some
of its elements, such as budgeting and MIS, are not yet operational for lack of funds and staff. The
Information System provides detailed data on the different stages of the financial aid provided by
CNL. The Department manpower (9 staff) is too small to meet the present load of about 25,000
annual requests and 24 monthly accounting reports.
9. The analysis of the financial statement indicates that the Statutory Funds and Retained Income
represent, with over DA 2 billion, 40 percent of the balance Sheet. But, it should be noted that 87
percent of this amount comes from investment of budgetary funds on the monetary market. It is
earmarked as funds for housing programs, and it cannot be presently utilized to meet the capital
and operating expenses requirement.
10. The flow of funds is monitored efficiently thanks to complementary procedures for each level
of responsibility that ensure the separation of the different tasks and the development of reliable
financial information for decision making executives. The flow of fund, with respect to the
management of the various aids, is followed daily by the Regional Services, and monthly by the
Finance and Accounting Department and executives. In spite of small deficiencies that were
observed in the treasury and the financial cycle, the auditors consider that the accounts reflect the
reality of the transactions.
Forecast
11. Attached tables on the balance sheet and the income statement provide estimates on CNL's
future activities from 1998 to 2000. The forecast shows that CNL intends to disburse DA 21
billion in 1998 to catch up with the aid that could not be distributed in 1997 for reasons external to
CNL. The auditor is confident that CNL will be able to carry out the signature and disbursement of
new contracts with the wilayas in addition to the disbursement of 1997 agreements. During 1999
2 Decree n 94-111, Article 5 stipulating CNL status.



Algena                                 Page 35                              Annex 5
Low-Income Housing Project                                       Financial Audit Summary
and 2000, CNL plans to distribute around DA 12 billion a year. According to CNL management,
the cost per agreement and per aid, set at US$0.83 in 1996 , should decrease further. This cost will
serve as a basic performance indicator.
Action Plans
12. The above mentioned level of disbursement implies the implementation of action plans to
strengthen CNL current activities. In agreement with CNL management, the following actions
were identified and planed for implementation in 1998 and 1999:
Organization
13. The new organization structure adopted in December 1997 provides for the establishment of a
Department of International Financing especially dedicated to the management of the Project.
Other changes include the strengthening of the Audit Department, the creation of CNL
representations at the wilaya level, the development of two new Directions Regionales, the
decentralization of some of the accounting procedures, and the merger of the network with the
Department in charge of the aid administration.
Staffing
14. CNUs staff was 160 at the beginning of 1998 and should ultimately increase to 225, 16 of
whom will work exclusively for the World Bank Project. Presently the staff is composed of 34
percent managers, 21 percent supervisors and 45 percent employees. Turn over is low. The staff is
generally qualified but training should be the priority. Remuneration is composed of a fix salary
plus a premium which can reach 25 percent of the salary. Average salaries were DA 22,900
(US$395) for the managers, DA 14,980 (US$258) for the supervisors, and DA 11770 (US$203)
for the employees at the end of 1997. Adjustment of the salary scale is being considered.
Management program
15. Improvement of the overall management activity will focus on: (a) strengthening accounting
and financial procedures; (b) setting up a management control system; (c) strengthening the
budgetary system, and (d) expansion of the data processing system for the financial and
accounting departments. To implement this action plan, CNL will primarily rely on the training
and technical assistance programs. The former will focus on housing subsidies management,
project management, and computer techniques. The latter will focus on the file management
system as well as the management information system in view of allowing CNL to develop a
national data base on the housing grant allocation system and to keep track of the beneficiaries at
the regional and national levels.
Equipment program
16. As shown on the balance sheets, emphasis will be put on equipment in 1998 and beyond. This
include the building of a new HQ in Algiers, the purchase of hardware and software equipment, as
well as the purchase of vehicles.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MTISTRY OF HOUSING
CAISSE NATIONALE DU LOGEMENT                                                                    c
ACTUAL                                                PROVISIONAL
BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31              1994         1995         1996          1997            1998            1999           2000
(in US$)
ASSETS
Cash Resources                              65,002,093    75,801,307    93,572,471    214,439,889    71,790,921       76,811,001   83,893,656
Prepaid Expenses                                54,250       36,952       39,972         87,858          80,756         100,992      128,039
Accounts Receivable                          1,257,359            -            -             -                -               -
Financial Claims on Investments                  2,831       97,313       55,083        247,477               -               -
Office Furniture                                11,444        9,463       18,877         25,417          29,210          29,752       30,794
Social Equipment                                 4,274        6,564        4,736         58,606         165,467         250,383      317,571
Buildings, Equipment & Intangible Assets       671,032      593,395      552,077        424,461       5,310,442        5,264,210    5,357,597
Land                                             7,622        6,303        5,853         15,996          15,941          15,335       15,037
Total Assets                                67,010,904    76,551,297    94,249,069    215,299,704    77,392,736       82,471,673   89,742,694
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                68,590       36,623          381           368                -               -
Other Accounts                                  97,442            -            -             -                -               -
Debt Due to Operating Expenses                                    -       52,501      4,642,765       6,588,574        3,544,760    3,411,410
Medium Term Debt due to Capital Expenditures         -            -            -             -        4,810,997        3,702,479    2,722,853    5
Held for Third Party's Account              47,868,146    48,748,946    58,140,070    194,707,501    39,349,127       44,079,425   47,502,905
Retained Income                             12,852,790    22,701,705    31,353,809   11,408,910      22,119,480       26,792,459   31,837,630
Statutory Funds                              6,123,936    5,064,024     4,702,308     4,540,159       4,524,558        4,352,550    4,267,897      >
Total Liabilities                           67,010,904    76,551,297    94,249,069    215,299,704    77,392,736       82,471,673   89,742,69443
Exchange Rate DA per US$                           43           52            56            58             58.2            60.5         61.7



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF HOUSING
CAISSE NATIONALE DU LOGEMENT
_                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0
ACTUAL                                        PROVISIONAL                           co
INCOME STATEMENT (inUSS)                      1994          1995         1996          1997            1998            1999         2000
Revenues:
Revenues from Statutory Funds and
Other Funds Held for Third Party's Account    8,754,937    14,040,137    11,378,811    13,199,180       18,879,015    10,842,975    10,972,447
Other Revenues                                   13,595        29,910        2,638         62,694                -             -             -
Total Revenues                                8,768,532    14,070,047    11,381,450    13,261,875       18,879,015    10,842,975    10,972,447
Expenses:
Labor Costs                                     568,557       649,433      715,852        744,112          897,715     1,138,347     1,144,814
Depreciation                                    126,330       127,038      149,601        138,197          240,034       265,537      299,433
Services                                        117,347       182,808      143,595        142,978          202,526       256,826      258,282
Supplies                                         47,832        94,871       61,715         76,899          110,223       139,752       140,551
Financial Fees                                    3,033         1,701        2,724          8,743           41,048        67,107       69,044
Taxes                                             2,810         1,932        4,338         37,478           39,124        49,620       49,887
Other Costs                                     801,225       938,829       29,971         18,563           25,567        32,430       32,609
Total Expenses                                 1,667,134    1,996,611     1,107,795      1,166,970       1,556,237     1,949,620     1,994,619
Income                                        7,101,398    12,073,436    10,273,654    12,094,904       17,322,778     8,893,355     8,977,828
Tax                                                                                     4,596,243        6,588,574     3,379,475     3,411,572
Net income                                    7,101,398    12,073,436    10,273,654     7,498,661       10,734,204     5,513,880     5,566,256
Q.
RATIOS
Yearly Consumption Rate (disbursed/received)                     82%          86%
Cost per Agreement (total expenses/number agreements)          43,872       18,776
Cost per Agreement per Aid                                       1.67         0.83



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA                                                                                                >
MINISTRY OF HOUSING
CAISSE NATIONALE DU LOGEMENT
0,
X,
ACTUAL                                                                 PROVISIONAL                           53
BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31 (in                          1994               1995              1996               1997                1998                 1999               2000
DA)
ASSETS                                                        DA                DA                 DA                DA                   DA                  DA                 DA
Cash Resources                                              2,795,089,978     3,941,667,981      5,240,058,355     12,437,513,576        4,178,231,576       4,647,065,576      5,176,238,576
Prepaid Expenses                                                2,332,745         1,921,504          2,238,428          5,095,745            4,700,000          6,110,000           7,900,000
Accounts Receivable                                            54,066,420
Financial Claims on Investments                                   121,741         5,060,268          3,084,669         14,353,644
Office Fumiture                                                   492,084          492,083           1,057,130          1,474,196            1,700,000           1,800,000          1,900,000 
Social Equipment                                                  183,780          341,345            265,207           3,399,154            9,630,154         15,148,154          19,594,154   X
Buildings, Equipment & Intangible Assets                       28,854,386        30,856,519         30,916,297         24,618,732          309,067,732        318,484,732         330,563,732
Land                                                             327,756           327,756            327,756            927,756               927,756            927,756            927,756
Total Assets                                                2,881,468,890     3,980,667,456      5,277,947,842     12,487,382,803        4,504,257,218       4,989,536,218      5,537,124,218
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                                2,949,389         1,904,371             21,321            21,321
Other Accounts                                                  4,190,000
Debt Due to operating Expenses                                                                       2,940,046        269,280,392          383,455,000        214,458,000        210,484,00C
Medium-Term Debt due to Capital Expenditures                                                                                               280,000,000        224,000,000         168,000,000
Held for Third Party's Account                              2,058,330,272     2,534,945,183      3,255,843,939     11,293,035,082        2,290,119,210       2,666,805,210      2,930,929,21 a m
Retained Income                                               552,669,979      1,180,488,652     1,755,813,286        661,716,758         1,287,353,758      1,620,943,758      1,964,381,758 Q
Statutory Funds                                               263,329,250       263,329,250        263,329,250       263,329,250           263,329,250        263,329,250        263,329,250 
Total Liabilities                                           2,881,468,890     3,980,667,456      5,277,947,842     12,487,382,803        4,504,257,218      4,989,536,218       5,537,124,218-
2>



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF HOUSING
CAISSE NATIONALE DU LOGEMENT
C
ACTUAL                                                              PROVISIONAL                           a
INCOME STATEMENT (in DA)                                          1994              1995              1996               1997               1998                 1999             2000
Revenues:
Revenues from Statutory Funds and
other Funds Held for Third Party's Account                  376,462,283       730,087,142       637,213,437       765,552,468        1,098,758,700         656,000,000      677,000,00(
Other Revenues                                                 584,596          1,555,311           147,745         3,636,261
Total Revenues                                              377,046,879       731,642,453       637,361,182        769,188,729       1,098,758,700         656,000,000      677,000,001
Expenses:
Labor Costs                                                  24,447,930        33,770,516        40,087,690         43,158,471          52,247,000          68,870,000       70,635,00
Depreciation                                                  5,432,187         6,605,993         8,377,654          8,015,398          13,970,000           16,065,000       18,475,00    J
(a
Services                                                      5,045,928         9,506,000         8,041,303          8,292,750          11,787,000           15,538,000       15,936,00    c
c0
Supplies                                                      2,056,791         4,933,273         3,456,060          4,460,150          6,415,000            8,455,000         8,672,000
Financial Fees                                                  130,401            88,441           152,536           507,095           2,389,000            4,060,000         4,260,00
Taxes                                                           120,838           100,465           242,910          2,173,742           2,277,000            3,002,000        3,078,000
Other Costs                                                  34,452,694        48,819,094          1,678,394         1,076,674           1,488,000            1,962,000        2,012,000
Total Expenses                                               71,686,769       103,823,782        62,036,547         67,684,280          90,573,000          117,952,000      123,068,001
Income                                                      305,360,110       627,818,671       575,324,635        701,504,449       1,008,185,700         538,048,000       553,932,000
Tax                                                                                                                266,582,115         383,455,000         204,458,240       210,494,00C
Net Income                                                  305,360,110       627,818,671       575,324,635        434,922,334        624,730,700          333,589,760       343,438,00C
Q.
C)
C>
oX



Algeria                                   Page 40                                    Annex 6
Low-income Housing Project                                  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6
Algeria: Low-Income Housing Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A.    Procurement Methods (Table A)
1.    Procurement under the project will be in accordance with the guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised in January and August 1996. The
Bank's standard bid documents will be used for all procurement under ICB. Consultants will be
selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants, January 1997 and revised in September 1997. The estimated costs and procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table A.
2.     Project implementation is highly decentralized, with small works contracts scattered in
many areas. Such contracts would not be of interest to foreign bidders and would be procurred
following NCB procedures. Under NCB launched by the Government, a large number of SMEs and
tdcherons normally participate in such works. The relatively small contract amounts therefore favor
private sector involvement. NCB procedures were reviewed by the Bank and, with minor
modifications, were found acceptable. For contracts below US$50,000 competitive quotations may
be obtained from usually at least three domestic contractors.
3.     Goods required for the project will consist of computer equipment, accessories, and other
small equipment. Contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or
more each will be procured through NCB procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million may be awarded through national shopping
with quotations received from at least three suppliers.
4.     Consultant activities for the infrastructure and housing component as well' as Technical
Assistant to MoH will mainly consist of studies and training for MoH, CNL, and local developers,
and design studies.
B.    Prior Review Threshold (Table B)
5.     All contracts for works exceeding US$750,000 and contracts for goods exceeding
US$350,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For consultancy assignments, all
contracts awarded to firms valued at US$100,000 and above, contracts awarded to individuals
valued at US$50,000 and above, sole source contracts, and terms of reference regardles of the
amounts, would be subject to prior review. The prior review of contracts for works, goods, and
consultant services, is estimated at 11 percent of Bank-financed procurement. All other contracts
would be subject to random post review during supevision by Bank staff. The contract review
arrangements are summarized in Table B.
C.    Procurement Monitoring and Supervision
6.     Responsibility for procurement of infrastructure investment subprojects will lie with the
local developers. CNL will have a monitoring function by reviewing the procurement methods and



Algeria                                 Page 41                                    Annex 6
Low-income Housing Project                                 Procurement and Disbursement ArrangemenXt
planning, bidding documents and the evaluation of bids. CNL will also submit to the Bank the
procurement for prior review.
Disbursement
D.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
As described in table C.
E.    Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
7.     Component A. Disbursement against civil works contracts costing more than US$750,000
will be fully documented, with copy of the contract, copy of the World Bank non objection to the
contract, and all invoices. For all other expenditures, disbursement will be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures. CNL will record all expenditures per subproject, and the Bank will
create subcategories for subprojects costing more than US$1 million.
8.    Component B. Disbursement against goods contracts exceeding US$350,000 and
consultants'contracts exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, will be fully
documented. For all other expenditures, disbusement will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs).
9.     Supporting documents for component B will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be
retained by CNL and made available to auditors and Bank visiting missions. For component A,
CNL will transmit to the Bank the signed site development agreements and its annexes. CNL will
record the contracts as agreed with the Bank so that the Bank can monitor them for prior or ex-post
review as needed. Annual audit reports will be submitted within six months of the end of each fiscal
year and will be prepared by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
F.    SPecial Account
10.    The authorized allocation of US$15 million will be limited to US$10 million until the
aggregate withdrawals from the loan account reach US$40 million. The special account will be
replenished on a monthly basis or more often, when at least one third of the allocated amount has
been withdrawn. Documentation for replenishment applications for the special account would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
G.    Retroactive Financine
11.    Civil works under component A and technical assistance under component B. I can be
financed retroactively if payments were made for eligible expenditures after May 1, 1998. The total
amount will not exceed 10 percent of the project, or US$15 million.



Algeria                                        Page 42                                          Annex 6
Low-income Housing Project                                          Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
Table A: Procurement Method
Local
Competitive         Local        Consulting
Bidding         Shopping        Services       N.B.F.        Total
A. Land Acquisition                  -               -              -             12.4          12.4
B. Civil Works
Infrastructure              138.4              -              -              -          138.4
(102.8)                                                     (102.8)
Housing                      45.5            12.2             -              -           58.2
(34.2)           (8.8)                                      (43.0)
C. Design & Supervision              -               -              -              5.0           5.0
D. Consultant Services               -               -             4.3             -             4.3
(3.8)                        (3.8)
E. Equipment                        0.4              0.1            -              -             0.5
(0.3)           (0.1)                                       (0.4)
TOTAL                             184.3             12.3            4.3           17.4        218.3
(137.3)           (8.9)          (3.8)                      (150.0)
Notes: NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous
items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of
the items listed as "NBF" need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
ICB is not expected to apply in this project.
Due to surroundings, figures may not add up.



>
Algeria: Low-income Housing Project
0
Annex 6 Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)                                 I
r0
(in US$million equivalent)                                                   ,
Selection Method                           Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                        (including
Expenditure Category                                                                      contingencies)
QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS       CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Finns                     1.8                                           0.5                2.3
B. Individuals              0.7                                                               0.7
Total 2.5                                            0.5                3.0
Note: QCBS =Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB =Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost SelectionO
CQ  =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications                                                              2
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.  3
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
CD,
QBS = Quality-based Selection~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
FigresinparntCQi  SelectieaountBse ton Cofnslanceyts' Quanklfctoans
.0A



>
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'                                         r:
0
S
Expenditure             Contract Value              Procurement            Contracts Subject to                            o
r0
Category                (Threshold)                Method                  Prior Review /                                  O
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review                         0
US dollars                                        US dollars                                       S
1. Works
50,000 or below            Local Shopping         Post Review
above 50,000               NCB                    US$11 million
2. Goods
100,000 and below          Local Shopping         Post review
100,000 to 350,000         NCB                    US$0.3 million
Above 350,000              ICB                    All
0
3. Services                                                                                                                  C
100,000 and above for firms                       All                                                t
US$2.3 million
50,000 and above                                  All
for individuals                                   US$0.7 million
4. Miscellaneous
0
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                          US$16.5million                                  3
a
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for o 
guidance.                                                                                                                                    3, ,



C>
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                                   W =
CD
0
Expenditure Category                              Amount            Financing Percentage
in
US$milli
on
I.  Civil works for Sub-projects                     142.5          80%
2.  Goods for CNL                                      0.3           100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3.   Consultants' services and training:                             100%
(a) for CNL                                   1.4
(b) for MoH                                   1.6
Unallocated                                            4.2
Total                                                 150.0
3
CD
I
w
<D
SD
a,
R:,
iD
CD
- a
CA



Algeria                                    Page 46                                 Annex 7
Low-income Housing Project                                   Project Processing Budget and Scdeduie
Annex 7
Low-Income Housing
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)   (as of 04/28/98)
320.0                  275.8
B. Project Schedule                            Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time Taken to Prepare the Project (months)
First Bank Mission (identification)            10/16/1995              10/16/1995
Appraisal Mission Departure                    03/06/1996              05/04/1998
Negotiations                                   05/04/1998              05/11/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/01/1998                 /19
Prepared by: Caisse Nationale de Logement (CNL)
Preparation Assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                           Specialty
Maryse Gautier                                 Municipal Engineer
Francois Amiot                                 Economist
Keith Rennie                                   Sociologist
Nicole Glineur                                 Environment Specialist
Hadi Abushakra                                 Lawyer
Maurice Gress                                  Procurement Adviser
Habib Fetini                                   Country Economist
Ezzine Hadj-Mabrouk                            Environment Specialist
Boris Cournede                                 Project Assistant
Dominique Dietrich                             Secretary



Algeria                                    Page 47                                    Annex 8
Low-income Housing Project                                              Documents in the Project File
Annex 8
Low-Income Housing
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Economic Analysis
- Resettlement Policy
- Guidelines for Resettlement Plan
- Recommendations for designing Site Development
(Bertaud Model)
C. Other
* Preparation study by Padco Consultant: programme de resorption de l'habitat precaire
dated January 1997
* Instruction ministerielle no 008 du premier aoat 1995 relative aux mesures d'amelioration
des conditions du cadre de vie a travers les zones d'habitat insalubre, et note jointe sur les
cas de sites necessitant le deplacement des populations (Ministere de I 'Habitat
* Algeria - new Government Program, August, 1997.
* Database of slums per wilaya, with population, surface, and number of housing units
involved, MoH, 1994.
* Subproject documentation, including urban area presentation technical design,
socioeconomic studies, resettlement plans
* CNL financial and organizational audit. CNAT - Mars 1998
* Terms of Reference of Etude sur l'amelioration des ressources des collectivites
locales
* Environmental Assessment Package (also available at the Public Information Center)
including:
- Executive Summary (English)
- Full Environmental Report (French) with environmental action plans per site (CREDES -
Gouvernement algerien. Avril 1998)
* Resettlement documentation including:
- Policy resettlement framework
- Two resettlement plans
(GoA).



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
D LoStatus of Bank Group Operations in Algeria toi
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
¢                                      ~~~~~~~~IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations PortfolioB
o                                                                                                                                                                                               I
Difference Between              X
expected..
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual                  a
(0                 Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
D   Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                         Purpose
o°                    No.                                                                                 IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frm Rev'd
O Number of Closed Loans/credits: 91
p
Active Loans
E  DZ-PE-43724   IBRD41430    1997   GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA                 RURAL EMPLOYMENT                  89.00        0.00            0.00          84.00         9.57       0.00
3  DZ-PE-4960    IBRD4034A    1996   ALGERIAN GOVERNMENT                   IND.POLLUTION CTRL.               76.00        0.00            0.00          76.00        4.50        0.00
DZ-PE-4978    IBRD4006A    1996   GOVT OF ALGERIA                       SOCIAL SAFETY I                   47.18        0.00            0.00          44.81       12.15         .26
°  DZ-PE-38695   IBRD3813A    1995   GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA                 MASCARA EMERG.RECONS              35.51        0.00            0.00          32.81       27.75        0.00
S  DZ-PE-4907    IBRD3839A    1995   REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA                   HIGHWAYS VI                      104.49        0.00            0.00         101.15       46.65        0.00
g  DZ-PE-4907    IBRD3839S    1995   REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA                   HIGHWAYS VI                       25.51        0.00            0.00            .91       46.65        0.00
DZ-PE-4974    IBRD3743A    1994   GOV. OF ALGERIA                          WATER SUPPLY & SEWER              98.62        0,00             0.00         97.42       45.70        0.00
C  DZ-PE-4974    IBRD3743s    1994   GOV. OF ALGERIA                       WATER SUPPLY & SEWER              11.38        0.00            0.00            .19       45.70        0.00
DZ-PE-4954    IBRD3573A    1993   GOVT. OF ALGERIA                      BASIC & SEC. EDUCATI              13.62        0.00            0.00          12.03        -.82       0.00
DZ-PE-4954    IBRD3573s    1993   GOVT. OF ALGERIA                      BASIC & SEC. EDUCATI              25.44        0.00            0.00            .31        -.82       0.00
DZ-PE-4976    IBRD3561S    1993   REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA                   HOUSING COMPLETION &             195.30        0.00            0.00            .57          .57        .19
00 DZ-PE-4938    IBRD3405A    1992   GOVERMENT                             SAHARA DEVELOPMENT                21.78        0.00             0.00         20.45       31.05       12.55
DZ-PE-4944    IBRD3487A    1992   GOVERNMENT                            FORESTRY & WATERSHED               8.26        0.00            0.00           8.08       10.23       9.07         S 
DZ-PE-4944    IBRD34875    1992   GOVERNMENT                            FORESTRY & WATERSHED              10.76        0.00            0.00            .96       10.23       9.07
DZ-PE-4964    IBRD3488A    1992   GOVT. OF ALGERIA                      CADASTRE                          10.67        0.00            0.00          10.39       10.71       0.00
DZ-PE-4964    IBRD34885    1992   GOVT. OF ALGERIA                      CADASTRE                          22.33        0.00            0.00            .32       10.71       0.00               X
DZ-PE-4934    IBRD3266A    1991   GOV. OF ALGERIA          A            UNIVERSITY DEVELOPME              18.69        0.00            0.00          17.60       18.23      12.23        'I
DZ-PE-4934    IBRD3266S    1991   GOV. OF ALGERIA          A            UNIVERSITY DEVELOPME              38.18        0.00            0.00            .65       18.23      12.23
DZ-PE-4917    IBRD3105A    1989   REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA                   PORTS III                          9.75        0.00            0.00           3.49       15.71       2.87
DZ-PE-4917    IBRD3105S    1989   REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA                   PORTS III                         23.24        0.00            0.00            .32       15.71       2.87
Total                                                                                                    885.71        0.00            0.00         512.46      378.41      61.34
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  378.72             3,481.08            3,859.80
of which has been repaid:                    4.50            1,953.22            1,957.72
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  898.38             1,538.71            2,437.09
Amount sold                       :                 0.00               36.37               36.37
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                36.37               36.37
Total Undisbursed                 :              512.46                10.86              523.32
5,
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                              (
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590) . Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S 2 satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.                                                                                                       0
0
Note:    Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                             o
m D
>
CO
pn



Algeria                                                 Page 49                                               Annex 9
Low-income Housing Project                                                                   Statement of Loans and Credits
Algeria
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval              Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1992                    Helios                   6.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    6.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                    ABCA                     0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                      6.00     2.00     0.00    0.00     6.00     1.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauitv   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on June 3, 1998



Algeria                                               Page 50                                                        Annex 10
Low-income Housing Projed                                                                                  Country at a Glance
Algeria at a glance                                                              8/28/97
M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North  middle-
Algeria    Africa  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        25.5       279    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            1,570     2,090    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (biGGons USS)                               44.8       582    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         2.2       2.6       1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                        4.1       3.3       1.8     per                             prmary
Most recent estimat (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               56         57       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70         66       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ve births)                 34         54       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              9
Access to safe water (% of population)                   ..       85       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   38         39
Gross pfimary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)  105         97      104              Algena
Male                                                111        104      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               98         91      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1i85       1996     1996
Economic ratos*
GDP (billions US$)                           15.6     58.0      41.4     45.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                45.1     33.2      32.2     26.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP            33.6     23.5      27.5    .31.6             Openness oi economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   35.9     36.4      28.5     33.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..      25.9     29.9
Current account balance/GDP                 -10.6      1.2      -5.4      2.7
Intrest paymentsiGDP                          1.4      2.4       4.5      4.3      Savings                     Investment
Total debtWGDP                         .     29.7     31.5      78.85    73.7
Total debt service/exports                    9.0     30.2      37.8     26.8
Present value of debtWGDP         :            ..       ..      60.5
Present value of debt/exports                                  205.9                          Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96    1965       1996  199746
(average annual growth)                                                                      A/gena
GDP                                  5.4     0.1       3.8       3.8      4.5
GNP per capita                       2.0     -2.3      0.2       2.3      2.6                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.3:     20        6.3       9.6      4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                  12.2     10.1      11.9     13.4       s
Industry                                     46.1     50.7      57.2     59.3
Manufacturing                               8.6     12.2       11.4     10.1                                    95 f
Services                                     41.7     39.3      30.9     27.3   1 .          15 
Private consumption                          51.1     47.9      55.8     52.7      ns
General govemment consumpion                 13.0     15.7      15.7      14.2
Imports of goods and services                42.9     20.3      31.2     24.6                     GDi     GOP
1976-8  198S8-9      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   3.4      2.5      15.0      21.3     1o
Industry                                      5.2    -0.6        3.3      4.0
Manufacturing                              11.2    -9.0        -1.4     -8.7   o      -_
Services                                      5.7      1.2       3.3      3.0             01   92 \               9S\ 9S
Private consumption                           8.1    -3.0        2.6       1.9    -10
General govemment consumption                 7.0      4.7       3.5      3.0
Gross domestic investment                     4.4    -4.1        3.0      3.5    -20
Importsofgoodsandservices                     4.6    -3.6        2.0    -13.3                -Exports  Imports
Gross national product                        5.2      0.1       2.5      4.3                     x
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wfth its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Algeria                                               Page 51                                                        Annex 10
Low-income Housing Project                                                                                 Country at a Glance
Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestc pces                                                                       Inflaton (%)
(% change)                                                                        so
Consumer prices                               8.2     10.4      29.8     18.7    so
Implicit GDP deflator                         5.4      4.6      28.5     22.6    30
Govemment finance                                                                 10
(% of GDP)                                                                         0
Current revenue                                       37.9      29.3     32.7            SI   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                         ,,    19.3        7.9     11.0              -     GDP dot. --P1
Overall surplusideficit -                             -8.3      -1.4      3.0
TRADE
1976    '1985     '1996     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and Import lvels (mill USs)
Total exports (fob)                                '12,975    10,258   13,208      15,000
Natural Gas                                        1,174     1,352    1,569           T
Refined Product                                    2,750      1,861    2,362
Manufactures                                  ..      26        30       31       0W
Total imports (cf)                             ,   10,763    10100    9,091
Food                                         ..2,181   2,520  2,983   soech
Fuel and energy                               ..     184       200      239
Capital goods                                      3,108      2,100    2,000        0
Exportpnceindex(1987=100)                             157        112      136            so  91  92  93  94  90  9B
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..      81        131      132                   Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..      193        85      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1995     1995
(millions US$)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               4,873   13,373    10,940   13,959      s
Imports of goods and services               6,603   12,448    12,110   11,239
Resource balance                           -1,730     925    -1,170    2,720
Net income                                   -163   -1,571    -2,199   -2,358      0            F     n-
Netcurrenttransfers                          232    1,358      1,129      881          90  el  92  93
Current account balance,                                                                                              as
before official capital transfers        -1,661      713    -2,240    1,243
Financing items (net)                       1,598     651      1,316      278
Changes in net reserves                       62   -1,363        924   -1,521     nso
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)         1,897    4,646     4,254    6,380
Conversion rate (ocaliVSS)                    3.9      5.0      47.7     54.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composlton of total debL 1996 (m1. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        4,633   18,260    32,631   33,692
IBRD                                        36      480      2,049    1,939                     C    A
IDA                  0        0          0        0                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~480  1939   C
IDA                0        0         0        0                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2102
Total debt service                           469    5,002      4,661    4,071          F                         D
IBRD                                         6       72        397      391        11269                     2268
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             30       41         70
Official creditors                         115      -112       806
Private creditors                         1,193     540        123                          \               E
Foreign direct investment                  119        0          5                                          E
Portfolio equity                             0        0          1
World Bank program
Commitments                                 48        0        280      428      A - iSRO                   E - Bilater
Disbursements                               33      148        554      286      B-IDA    D-Othermultlata   F-P,Pvate
Principal repayments                         3       42        260      252      C - IMF                    G - Short-tern
Netflows                                    30      106       294        34
Interest payments                            3       30        137      139
Net transfers                               27       76        157     -105
Development Economics                                                                                              8/28197



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29619
.C.H.o  ;?Skikdo     I2AiN JtYI8AoA-6o    El KrIo
75,888  o9D             0Aze8oo                                                                                                        -1-
BIE'US BOUMFt D:K.    TliMj   Azozga  29 750  Bei                         _                      129.297              t            47,779?  EITO.f
ERAS   *  Booodj ~*-   N   kooo uo   El K(oeor                        L  El M,I,.o        1 9,9
,  Tlf Z>  Bl'T0ERt8  i Bo,2RP me   OBaur ieecl      A1oirh-                 A k          81.676                         0ElArrouch     ' "
°T5n6            ,       s Af5          420240   Tbho°g                         13,492   MAb:           ti,00hero                 Milo  0    ,re                Goelroo         Bo,°Ceo0ogo   -
36-              MC)SIAf.ANt Ab                       Chlef           Al Z ')F;, A                A'S  "            Ghozl=ne                                                               I 1 656       OAlntAlila    OumE                         o    i~~~~E H  5 , Ach k,d.'SA  l 1m.mil0 .'.,!  -16  ~ -H...
El Mizon               0ALbodi               K t1 ,                                    Kh2 MihN KTATbes
MiI~~oo~~                                        0                                 0                Goedi
-  -  L's-'1.e!   '   Tlghenif                                             OAlnOussera                                                .              ,                                    ens ea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%,-~  .A
43,092                  WI                                                                                                             C ,obl,P SXL ~helhon A1A,    Sdol
AuiSf  Ain                  Elcrt  AlHacofn  M,Iiono        Beo,oncE Ao0fk1   21 16                                                                  I A,d0                       AAoSs
hIef                                         0                    0ghi   70,869          AroieBo.                        'El WoIo,                         . 
MC)5 17       .iilMM                                                                                                                                                                    0Afn M'1,1o                      35 -k70
Chl(f OGhaz-cue?                                                  El                                                                                            O.. El,_   30,088  OF5nda  Sougueur  OHa h   O,946o
NiLdrM                                       o      55a,87                                               DE,'A;                                  So,_El                                                                 11 656                     B ... ,35  Oo..E.
-°Mg--i55872121,8                                                                       36 012 715                                                  0                                             of; B-D                          'El A.
A,-Are                        EjKor80Sd,o                                                                                                           Eld    0      -5366                        A,,leoAh                   Ed        E1 ...,
- OSebdou   Telagh   Sasda                       I k  i                                          6                                                        Talgr°  ANCOThen K., El'                                   Ank Bic
3 2,62 .    3te HId A.  El Hcd1 MMail
Rel,zo0e           ~21,8520Noos                                                                                                                  el®
13,                           .ohoooood,o               1ehoo,o0                     ,Tis-ilt                                  N0 
3.,,2di~  -,,,...                                                                                                 060 RuhserKh-oheI.C'                                                                                                                       Tb..
3'  !h-if                                                               A    -...
Be-l S.f0    ®A                          Mos-on ®           8   ohn          Tont®0eec                                                                                                        B.,,k.0  211, 1 46   `A,o T0-t0
T2--h-t                      AIASCARA                                               Ken CHO-oI                                                      B- So0c
GOozoocet                               0                                                                                               M'Dook8I            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El Ko-tor
R-oc,,i            Sd, BF                                                                                                  Hoes Bobho1,                                                                                              9,460
\.    F40Nc,ooo .o.                                                                               60De                                                                   17,33Be  ®88,488
'\O M.     ~         ~ TI                                                               0                                                                                                                                                                                            )    5   LUDFtMEDSVIAA   EErONE    / Gooa
MLg~i TO  - W        C11,1 45    HAd. O                                                      DU AG R                                                                  Eh C                                                                                                   0SV
T.I.gh         1A.   1   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIo11,995                                                                                            Zeri6et                               Dieb. 0.1,
0Uebdo                                                                       8,7                                                                                                                                            Elelogh
DhPRo                SAIDA TI776                                                                            DjO                                                                                        E1 odoE
I-i.~~~~~~~~~~~172201d i1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gm
1 57,593               RoI122                                                                                                             v.Ooe  el1Ntie                                                                                                                    -
1)   UlAooho  .                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13,550  0eeo
31~                              ~             ~ I            ELECT              LY                                                                                                            9A>NLCAIA                                           2  2bI, 2
3REMIE.ES 2L1                                                      SI 2.                                                       lDoI                                                            I                                2s    \   2131                                          34
468           El B.y.dh                       26,222                                                         _._                                                  2       ERNAION   d
POPULATION LIVING IN SLUMS AND                                               *ALGIERS
28,31 7 NONSERVICED ENC ROACHMENT, MH, 1994
POPULATION VIVANT 06AN5 DES OUARTIERSA-                                           Mp
SPONTANES ET HABITATS PRECAIRES, MN, 1994.                                Ao   to
A L G ERIA                                                                                             P1.0GW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,O,  FIRST SELECTED WILAYAS             o'o GI,,® 6
A    L  G     E   R    I A                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREMIERES WILAYAS SELECTIONNEES
0  50       1T             1~      ~ ~~ONSAD  ILAE                                                         ,     Bon,        NA        ,00
LOW-INCOME  HOUSING  PO ETKILOMETERS                                                                                                                                         0  VTOWESANDVILLAOES                                                                 N.A,"                   I~
P R O J E C T                                                                                                                       *,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'--' ~VLLSETVLL G S7,675  499322
PROJET DE RESORPTION  DE L' HABITAT PRECAIRE                                                                                                                                                          SEE E WILAYAHEDURES                              Jool            A Al IG E R I A
FIRST SELECTED  WILAYAS                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 '-12,1 02
CAPITLE                 ~
PREMIERES WILAYAS SELECTIONNEES                                                                                  b,-p,  yh.Mp-p-fT.W,I13k278NA
Th, kO-dO0-, -00, ,o,oosd -ny.rke,; ---ooI0oosho-               WILAYA BOUNDARIES                                             .
ooh,, ., do --01,pl -0 t P., of Th. World Ro-k G-oP. 001      LIITES DES WILAYAS                                               ,                     Tm,Ioe
lbw.00   .       f-ellao      -yo e000,0 o  odoe,oo         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                             "
eooep,eooeolsoohkooodooes                       ~~~~~~~~LIMITES INTERNATIONALES                                          '>         75,1 53      ,
JUNE1998



