Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
- 23O lo    2
Low Income Housing Project
Resettlement Documentation
April 1998



Table of Content
Resettlement Policy Framework  .............................................................................
Resettlement Plan for the Shantytown of Amar Merzoug I,
Annaba Wilaya                 ...................................................................................................
Resettlement Plan for the Shantytown of Sidi Harb IV,
Annaba Wilaya                ...................................................................



Page 1 of 15
Unofficial translation
Annex 12
POLICY FRAMEWORK PAPER
ONRESETTLEMENT
under the
Low-Income Housing Project
qRiP)
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF HOUSING
Directorate of Architecture and Urban Development
April 1998



Annex ŽI
Page 2 of 15
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    'Principles and objectives. ......................... . 
2.       Legal and institutionalframework .........................    .6
3.      Eligibilityfor benefits of the operations
3.1       Eligibility criteria ...........................9
3.2       Beneficiary identification               ......  10
4.   Entitlements ............... . 10
5.      Project implementation  .............-                                .  15
6.     Organizational responsibilities ..     ......................       .      16
7.   Methods of estimnation ........ 18
8.   Monitoring and evaluation   ....... 18
ANNEXES
I     List of subprojects under preparation
rI    List of laws relevant to resettlement



Annex 12
Page 3 of 15
Acronyms
AADL        Agence pour l'Amelioration et le Developpement du Logement (Housing
Improvement and Development Agency)
AFL         Agence Fonciare Locale (Local Land Agency)
AFIW        Agence Fonciere Intercommunale de Wilaya (Intercommunal Wilaya Land
Agency)
APC         Assemblee Populaire Communale (Communal People's Assembly)
APW         Assemblie Populaire de Wilaya ( People's Assembly)
BET         Bureau dE'tudes Techniques (Technical Consultancy Firmus)
CNL         Caisse Nationale du Logement (National Housing Fund)
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment (Etudes d 'impact sur 1 'environnement)
FONAL       Fonds National d'Aide au Logement (National Housing Assistance Fund)
GoA         Government of Algeria
LDU         Direction de l'Urbanisme (Local Directorate of Urban Development)
LP          Lotissement Pr6ventif(Sites and services subproject)
MoH         Ministry of Housing
MdO         Maitre d'Oeuvre (Master of Works)
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PDAU        Plan Directeur dAmenagement et d'Urbanisme (Planning and Urban
Development Master Plan)
POS         Plan d'Occupation des Sols (Land Occupancy Plan)
RES         Restructuring
RHP         Resorption de l'Habitat Precaire (Slum redevelopment)
SNMG        Salaire National Minimum Garanti (National Guaranteed Minimum Wage)
TOL         Taux d'Occupation par Logement (Occupancy Rate per Housing Unit)
TOP         Taux d'Occupation par Piece (Occupancy Rate per Room)



Annex-12
Page 4 of 15
POLICYFRAMEWORKIPAPER
ONRESE7TLEMENT
under the
LO W-INCOME HOUSIVG PROJECT (RHPI)
1.    Principles and objectives
1.1.  The Algerian Government (GoA) proposes, within the framework of a loan granted by
the World Bank, to implement a project to redevelop unsanitary slum neighborhoods (hereinafter
called "the Project") and thereby bring about a substantial improvement in the living conditions
of the low-income residents of those areas.
1.2.  This project is consistent with the provisions of the Government's new housing policy,
which aims, inter alia, to apply the following major principles:
(a)  to address the issue of slum redevelopment within a overall framework, at the urban,
regional, or communal level, abandoning the previous policy of treating each instance
separately;
(b)  to introduce precise identification criteria for targeted low-income groups in order to
channel more efficiently direct or indirect assistance from Govermnent;
(c)  to introduce and apply principles and means whereby the residents concerned can
participate in the implementation of projects to improve their housing situation, either
financially (cost-sharing and cost-recovery) or by taking direct responsibility for building
certain parts of their dwellings (directly, or through neighborhood associations and
committees).
1.3.  To that end, the program's development objectives are to improve living conditions and
the environment for low-income households located in urban neighborhoods that are
characterized by a high density of slums or unserviced settlements, through provision of serviced
lots and housing units. The project will directly benefit the following categories:
(a)   slum dwellers, through construction of subsidized housing units and provision of a land
title ensuring tenure and rights of transfer;
(b)  low-income households in unserviced areas, through provision of roads, water, sewerage,
and electricity;
(c)  that portion of the population able to benefit effectively from provision of affordable
serviced lots and land tenure under conditions appropriate to low income households.



Annex-12
Page 5 of 15
1.4.  This program will finance operations totaling US $200 million, distributed among several
subprojects spread across the country's various regions and falling under one of the three
following categories:
(a)   Slum redevelopment (relogement, REL) subprojects for households living in slum areas
(bidonvilles), with provision for re-housing families in core housing units (one room,
kitchen, and bathroom) that would replace the slum dwellings, together with land tenure
regularization;
(b)   Seulement servicing (restructuration, RES) subprojects for non-serviced neighborhoods,
comprising a program to improve of basic infiastructure and regularize land tenure;
(c)   Sites and services (prevention, LP) subprojects, supplying serviced lots destined for low-
income families.
1.5.  This policy framework document has been developed in the context of the preparatory
phase (referred to hereafter as RHP1) comprising a certain number of subprojects representative
of the above three categories and selected in five wilayas, namely Annaba, Constantine, Blida,
Tipazs and Oran. The document could be revised after the implementation phase of these
subprojects.
1.6.  A Prncedures Manual will be prepared at the end of the preparatory phase to finetune the
methodology of preparation and implementation of resettlement operations. It will be based on
the two resettlement plans already completed. It will give the guidelines for the preparation of
resettlement plans and socioeconomic surveys according to Bank requirements.
1.7.  Subproject appraisal for each slum redevelopment project (REL) will be based on a
specific resettlement plan and a socioeconomnic study approved by the Bank. However,
subprojects with resettlement of less than 200 people will only require a simplified resettlement
plan, without the requirement of a socioeconomic study.
1.8.  The population affected by the totality of sub projects in the involved in RHP 1
subprojects (including REL, RES, and LP) is estimated at 40,000 households, or around 70,000
people, distributed as follows:
* REL (Slum redevelopment) subprojects,
•  RES (Settlement servicing) subprojects,
• LP (Site and Service) subprojects.
1.9.  Resettlement forecasts vary according to sites and will be detailedi in the resettlement
plans to be completed for each subproject.
1.10. In subprojects which involve either temporary resettlement (settlement servicing) or
permanent resettlement (rehousing in subsidized units), or displacement of residents either within
or outside the slum area concerned (slum redevelopment)), according to the definition of terms
approved by the two parties, the following policy principles shall be observed:



Annex-12
Page 6 of 15
(a)   displacement or relocation of the residents concerned will as far as possible be avoided or
at least minimized;
(b)   when displacement of some of the residents targeted by a given subproject is required,
care must be taken to ensure that they are given the opportunity to maintain or upgrade
their living standards;
(c)   various types of compensation (direct or indirect social assistance) will be provided as
needed within the framework of procedures set forth in national legislation;
(d)   budgetary resources, local infrastructure and social services will be made available in
timely fashion to the affected population.
1.10. The fmnal Project outcome expected by the authorities is three-pronged:
1st.   a substantial upgrading of the living and housing conditions of people living in
awful conditions of overcrowding, lack of sanitation and lack of privacy, through
the free supply of core housing units constructed in accordance with -established
construction norms;
2nd.  provision to people who live in an insecure legal status (lacling legal property titles)
the opportunity to own the plot on which their house is built, by subsidizing most of
its purchase price;
3rd.  the enabling of relocated households to develop a good-quality residential project at
minimumn cost starting from a basic core unit, thus allowing them to meet their
Living requirements according the changing requirements of family size and
structure.
1.11. The benefts attained by the concerned population-of improved housing and living
conditions and regularized legal status consequent upon resettlement operations into permanent
housing, as well as the provision of services and the creation of preventive sites-greatly exceed
the disadvantages deriving from a displacement that might take them a few meters away from
their former home sites, or the loss of their original slum dwellings.
2.    Legal and institutional framework
2.1.  Algeria's current legislation provides the legal framework for the entire Project and its
related subprojects. The legislative instruments governing the actions of the public operators are
listed in annex 2. They have undergone substantial changes since 1990, when the Land Law was
enacted.
2.2.  In the first place, new legislation was enacted in 1980 to mitigate urbanization impacts on
the environment.  Taking account of the significant urban expansion stemming from
implementation of an important housing and associated infrastructure program, the Environment
Act (law dated February 5, 1983) and regulatory texts (decree 90-78 of February 27, 1990 on



Annex 12
Page 7 of 15
environmental impact assessments, EIA) set up new procedures for the authorization of housing
programs and industrial plants. The EIAs were therefore requested before any authorization, in
order to reduce environmental impacts, the generation of wastes and harmful emissions.
2.3.  The land law reforms of 1989-90. Subsequently, a new economic environment created
the need for legal and regulatory reforms on land management, city planning and land
development The regulations promoting urban land management by municipalities in force
since 1974, intended to facilitate and speed up land availability for mostly public developments,
were abrogated under provisions of the new 1989 constitution.
2.4.  The new constitution guaranteed private land tenure of land, prescribing rigorous controls
against expropriation, which henceforth became subject to just, equitable and prior compensation
(provision defined by the law 91-11 of August 27, 1991 relating to expropriation for reasons of
public interest).
2.5.  The implication of these provisions required the passing of a new law on urban land
tenure (Law 90-25 of November 18, 1990) This instrument revised legislation relating to
communal land ownership, restoring the rights to use the land to their legal owners in the context
of the application of the provisions of urban development legislation.
2.6.  Henceforth, since the transformation of land use was affected by this law, it was
necessary to avoid abusive conversion of agricultural land on the outskirts of urban areas. Thus
it was necessary to promulgate another law on Urban Development and Land Management (90-
69 of 1 December 1990) which reformed the urban planning and land management instruments
designed to manage urban growth. These new instruments comprised:
the Planning and Urban Development Master Plan (PDAU) which detemiined the
urban sectors and overall land use in relation to communal lands; and
* the Land Occupancy Plans (POS) which defined the rights of construction on plots.
These instrurnents, open to challenge by third parties, were widely adopted, with 1233 of the
country's 1541 communes having prepared PDAUs.
2.7. Since that time, therefore, the availability of land for urban programs was subject to these
new management rules by the legal owners, applying practices provided for in the urban and land
management instruments.
2.8. Legal status of land Land use is defined by its juridical status, as follows:
(a)   Private land. The use of private land depends on the ability of the owner to undertake
operations within the land use defined in the PDAU. If the owner's resources are
insufficient, bank credit based on mortgage and/or cession to a third party is possible.
Expropriation in the public interest is only possible in the context of an urban land
management plan which defines land use. In the absence of this instrument, no
expropriation can take place.



Annex 12
Page 8 of 15
(b)   State land. State land cannot be ceded to another party, but is reserved as appropriate for
projects in the public interest. In respect of lands in the private domain of the
Government, their attribution under urban master plans is undertaken by a cumbersome
process of placing them on the open market. However, these lands may also be destined
for public facilities and housing operations of a social character, with subsidies on the
purchase price.
(c)   Municipal lands within the Municipal Reserve.   These latter are transferred into the
management control of the local land agencies with the dual objective of (i) regularizing
the administrative situation in respect of their definitive incorporation into the municipal
land reserves, since this procedure had already started before this provision of the law
was abrogated; and (ii) continuing the allocation and management of plots that are still
available. The regulation of lands acquired under the heading of municipal land reserves
has also been updated through registration and the publication of administrative acts
passed at the time of their attribution.
In addition, and in particular in respect of subprojects selected for the Bank loan financing, the
following regulatory procedures on urban matters will apply: (i) development authorizations will
be submitted to a review and approbation by all technical agencies to allow land use
regularization; and (ii) tenure title delivery to concerned households. The land titles provided
against payment will finalize this onerous process of land title transfer, and will allow
beneficiaries to get building permits and mortgage.
2.9.  LocalAssociations and communityparticipation. in summary, the 1989 constitution led
to the reform of law 87-15 dated July 21,1987, on not-for-profit organizations. Law 90-31 of
December 4, 1990 provides a much more flexible environment for the creation and operation of
associations dealing with professional, social, scientific, educational, cultural, religious and
sporting matters. No longer does their formation require administrative permission, but instead
derives from their representativity, and from the extent to which they conform to their stated
objectives. Thus, all local associations existing in RHPI subproject sites were created under the
principle of free association, which is emphasized in article 6 of the same law.
2.10. Following the same thread, the texts relating to urban development contain various
procedures for ensuring, in the preparation of urban planning documents, consultation with and
the parficipation of the elected representatives of local populations (Assemblies Populaires
Communales: or Peoples' Municipal Assemblies), land owners, chambers of commerce and
industry etc.
2.11. Delivery of land title. Finally, it should be noted that in the slum redevelopment projects
there are no constraints related to the legal status of the land, since each sub-project is situated on
public land. The delivery of individual land titles to the beneficiaries will follow a well
established procedure of the Algerian government, which has had to deal with similar cases in
the last few years. An authentic title of land ownership, i.e. one that is properly recorded and
published, will serve, once the households have settled their obligations to the Local Land
Agencies owning the sites, to replace the order of assignment [arreti d'affectation] issued by the
public operators at the start of the resettlement process.



Annex 12
Page 9 of 15
2.12. However, in the event that any particular constraint should arise, particularly in the slum
upgrading subprojects, the Algerian Civil Code and the Law on Expropriation for State-approved
Purposes contain special procedures for judicial compensation.
2.13. Finally, the existence of an ultimate appeals procedure available to the populations
affected by resettlement: the appeal to the local representatives of the ombudsman (Mediature de
la Republique) which have been established in every region of the republic.
3.    Eligibility for Project benefits
Eligibility criteria
3.1.  The criteria for identifying residents eligible for government assistance under the Project
vary according to the category in which the subproject is classified.
(a)   For category (i) (slum upgrading), eligibility for the benefit of resettlement extends to all
households living on the site who are identified in a survey by the local authorities as
meeting the govenment aid eligibility conditions at the threshold defined by the
intenministerial order of December 1997. This order establishes that all households with
incomes below the threshold of four times the national minimutm guaranteed salary
(4 SNMG) are eligible for this assistance for home construction. This level, a maximum
of DA 350,000, is weighted at four times the revenue of eligible households. The
assistance ranges from 200,000 to 350,000 according to the case.
Households with incomes above that threshold wishing to build a dwelling other than that
proposed by the Government will be offered serviced plots created within the same site
or in ithe promotional sites and services subprojects closest to their original place of
residence.
Households with incomes below one SNMG will be taken care of by the housing
commissions established at the level of the responsibility of the elected local authorities
(APC) who will offer them either social assistance housing or municipal assistance
toward their contribution.
(b)   For category (ii) (settlement servicing), eligibility for govermment assistance is extended
to households residing in the designated area, with income levels meeting the
requirements of the interministerial order. However, households which for various
reasons do not wish to be resettled in their original neighborhood upon completion of the
servicing project, will, once their agreement has been properly determined, be offered
construction plots in the sites and services projects closest to their original neighborhood.
(c)   For category (iii) (sites and services subprojects), eligibility for plot-related benefits (i.e.
the right to purchase plots at discounted or otherwise subsidized prices) is extended to
low-income households whose living conditions merit government assistance. The



Annex 12
Page 10 of 15
elected local authorities (APCs) will draw up lists of beneficiaries of the sites and
services subprojects by reference to the current national social laws and local priorities.
Beneficiary identification
3.2.  At the beginning of every site study, all the occupants of the project perimeters will be
identified through comprehensive surveys carried out by the local authorities (APC) and the
operators, lists which will be verified by the socio-economic study. Both these authorities will
be in possession of official nominative lists at the time of each beneficiary assessment. In this
respect, occupants of slum dwellings or other shelter who have settled within the site after the
completion of the survey will be treated in a different way that will enable a determination of
their eligibility in relation to the carrying capacity of the site and the available fiancial
resources.
3.3.  Moreover, prior knowledge of the beneficiary lists by the targeted population themselves,
and by their representatives in the neighborhood associations, guarantees proper allocation of
plots and reduce the risk of slippage [glissement].
3.4.  The policy framework document provides a statement of the principles, objectives and
general content of the policy of resettlement. It constitutes the reference document for each
specific resettlement plan and for the studies which will be prepared for each sub-project. These
resettlement plans will be developed based on the methodology of approach, inquiry, and
statistical data analysis to be developed in the Manual or Procedural Guide.
3.5.  The socio economic study constitutes the principal aspect of the resettlement plan. Its
objectives are: to verify the reliability and correctness of the enumeration, to indicate various
changes that may have taken place in the population concerned, to identify eligible and non-
eligible households, to indicate their socio-economic status, to identify and evaluate the nature of
economic activities, to estimate the expected losses and benefits, to describe the degree of
involvement of the associations and local organizations in the process of resettlement, to
determine the measures to take to minimize losses of incomes or assets, to identify the nature of
assistance to be applied to vulnerable individuals, etc.
3.6.  To this end, the resettlement plans connected with each subproject will integrate the
results of the socio-economic analysis in specific measures that should be taken to guarantee the
success of the resettlement sub-project.
4.    Entitlements
4.1.  The Project as a whole, with its three components of slum redevelopment or upgrading
(REL), settlement servicing (RES), and sites and services (LP), fully reflects the Algerian
Government's commitment to bring about substantial improvements in the living and housing
conditions of the communities concerned. The benefits, both physical (core units supplied free
of charge and plots largely financed by the Government) and non-physical (land titling) to be



,Annex-12
Page 11 of 15
derived by the households far outweigh the minor inconveniences incurred during subproject
implementation (displacement by a few meters from their original home site in some cases, or
rare instances of temporary or permanent relocation within the settlement servicing subprojects).
4.2.  HouLseholds targeted by the slum upgrading subprojects will be awarded full ownership
(with land title) of all (or part) of the plot of land on which they had illegally put up their slum
dwellings (i.e. without authenticated land ownership documents). On completion of the technical
studies, the public developers in charge of the subprojects will start servicing the sites and
connecting them to public utilities, with 70% government financing, and will then construct
individual core unit housing houses on part of the allocated plots (between 80 m2 and 120 m2,
depending on the site), the core unit being completely financed by the Govermnent. Once
constructiont is completed, full ownership of the houses will be turned over to the relocated
households, which will be responsible for finishing, for paying the transfer price of the plot, and
for any possible extensions to the core unit.
4.3. The possible financial gain to be realized by the households in the event of sale of their
houses and respective plots at true market value will be on the order of 5-10 times the amount of
the initial investment.
4.4.  The land titles delivered will be properly authenticated and recorded at the land
registration offices. The titles can thus be assigned, inherited, or used as security for certain
types of mortgage financing. This aspect to a large extent explains the undeniable attractiveness
of this formula to the populations concerned, their willingness to be mobilized, and the active
participation by resident associations in the different phases of project implementation.
4.5.  In order to avoid and minimize loss of incomes resulting from the direct effects of
resettlement in a residential environment, the public developers and local authorities, after
consulting with the local associations, will make provision in the various sub-projects for sheds
and other livestock enclosures to be constructed near the homes of the residents concerned that
will enable them to maintain their activities, provided these are not incompatible with urban
nornms.
4.6. Certain other benefits expected from the slum upgrading operations are not immediately
quantifiable, such as improved levels of sanitation, lower infant mortality rates, increase in
school enrollment, etc. These are the direct by-products of improved living and infrastructure
conditions throughout the area of impact of the subprojects. Moreover, since the subprojects
come under the Planning and Urban Development Master Plan (PDAU) and the Land Occupancy
Plans (POS) in accordance with Algerian urban regulations, they will benefit from the provisions
of those plans (infiastucture investments, and from the direct and indirect outcomes of new
facilities such as schools, medical dispensaries, etc.).
4.7. In respect of socially and economically vulnerable households, certain communes where
slum upgrading subprojects are in progress currently have new institutional arrangements for
dealing with social matters (cellules de proximite, local offices of the Ministry of Social
Solidarity). These institutions could provide additional support to rehousing in the limited sense



Annex 12
Page 12 of 15
of the term, while also helping inject greater efficiency into community self-help. Households in
this category, that cannot afford the costs of resettlement on the site on the terms described
above would, if they so desired, be offered permanent relocation in public subsidized housing,
which they could not leave except at risk of losing their right to public assistance.
4.8.  In the event that the project developers are confronted with a situation of temporary
resettlement, they will take every measure necessary to avoid it or to minimize its effects. Such
possible resettlement will not take place in the winter months, its duration will not exceed three
months, and all costs and losses suffered by the populations will be entirely reimbursable by the
developers.
4.9.  Lastly, existing sociological analyses of the Algerian context very clearly demonstrate
that the risk of indebtedness for slumn residents is minimal. They show that possession of a land
title generally opens the way to strategies for mobilizing the various material and non-physical
resources owned by the households in their region of origin: sales of agricultural goods and of
various land rights, reactivation of kinship networks to finance construction, the setting up of
informal mechanisms to share costs of permanent relocation among the various members of
extended family groups, etc. The chief obstacle within the Algerian context is not a total lack of
financial resources, but the absence of a land title enabling a household to record once and for all
its place within urban groups.
4.10. However, to the extent that the difficult economic situation during the last five years
(devaluation of the national currency, double-digit inflation, unemployment etc.) has contributed
to the erosion of households savings in money and goods, the ability of such households to
finance their own development should not be overestimated. A more accurately targeted strategy
of social assistance should be envisioned for the most vulnerable households. The municipalities
have a key role to play in relation to the social safety net, and in the context of the specific
budget allocated by the Ministry of National Solidarity and Family Affairs.
4.11. Entitlement Matrix
The populations affected by slum redevelopment (REL) and restructuring (RES) operations are
entitled to benefits or compensation according to the entitlement matrix below. The resettlement
plans prepared for each subproject will calculate specific values for these compensations
according to local conditions.



Annx 12
Page 13 of 15
Case  Summary Of losses          Eligible                         Eligible for State Assistance                     j Not Eligible for State Assistance
person
I      Loss of land
1.1   Illegal occupation       Household  Access to serviced plot at subsidized price according to legal provisions  Access to serviced plot at a price below
Head                                                                                 market value, and of an area greater
than that of the standard plot.
1.2    Legal Occupation        Land        a) Not affected by resettlement                                           a) not affected by resettlement
owner
b) Where the area of the plot owned is less than that of the standard plot, it will   b) In the event of resettlement for
be enlarged and granted at a price that includes subsidies, so that the owner may   reasons of public interest, a plot
envisage construction of a viable structure.                             equivalent to that owned will be
granted.
c) In the event of resettlement for reasons of public interest, a plot equivalent to
that owned will be granted.
3.     Loss of Housing
3.1    Slum dwelling            Household  a) Social housing for vulnerable families (below the threshold for state  Occupants of slum dwellings who are
Head        assistance for housing construction);                                    owners of the plots on which they have
b) Assisted construction up to a value of DA 350,000, weighted according to the  built can access a credit fot house
level of household income [in favor of lower income households).         construction.
3.2    Pennanent, substandard   Household  Assistance of construction up to DA 350,000, with the possibility of recovery of  Recovery of construction materials, nnd
housing                 Head         construction materials for future extension.                             possibility of compensation under 1. I
above.
3.3    Permanent, standard      Household  a) regularization of land title and regularization of construction permit in the  a) retains land of which he/she is the
housing                  Head        case of illicit cotistruction, expansion of right to construct (two or three storied    owner
building);
b) Where demolition is required in the public interest, application of the
provisions of the law on expropriation, plus benefits under the heading of
compensation for land loss
c) Where part of the construction is affected, compensation prorated according
to the extent of destruction,
However:
: Where the partially affected structure is illegal, the owner will be treated in the
same manner as people eligible for State assistance;
Where the owner is also a land owner, the household head will be granted a land
area equivalent in value to the damages suffered.



Annex12
Page 14 of 15
Case  Summary of losses       Eligible                                                       Rights
I                             I person                                                        Rights
4     Economic activities      Enlrepreneur    1). LEGAL AND COMPATIBLE    2). LEGAL BUT INCOMPATIBLE    3). ILLEGAL AND
taking place on site                             ACTIVITY                ACTIVITY                           INCOMPATIBLE ACTIVITY
Maintained on site        Removed to an appropriate local site,  No compensation: activity is
at the expense of the administration  prohibited.
and local authority
Other Benefits
5     (Vulnerable persons)     Individuals   Benefit from complementary social safety net support and direct assistance through national solidarity.
6     (Supplementary support)  Individuals   Assistance through solidarity provided by neighborhood associations, the traditional social fabric, and various forms of
mutual societal assistance.
7.    Reduction of land area    Household   a) compensation by expanded construction rights (horizontal and vertical extension)
head      b) benefit from positive impact of urbanization of the site (servicing, regulation of land titles, etc.)



Anex 12
Page 15 of 15
5.    Project implementation
5.1.  Implementation on the project rests on three basic principles:
(a)   Make every effort to avoid displacements of residents, even within the site, and, when
this is impossible for technical reasons, minimize such displacements, keeping them
preferably within the subproject area, so as to avoid disrupting the links between the
households concerned and their immediate social and economic environment.
(b)   Adopt gradual resettlement plans designed first to rehouse residents living in the
immediate neighborhood of the first completed construction blocks, continuing the
process as the subsequent blocks are completed, until all of the beneficiary population has
been resettled. It is understood that the first blocks to be developed will be located in the
unbuilt areas existing within the subproject site, so as to minimize destruction of shacks
and avoid temporary displacements.
(c)   Ensure that information concerning resettlement planning reaches the target residents in
time to allow them to get involved directly in the resettlement process, through their
representative associations, in exercise of the rights to which they are entitled under
Algerian law.
Application of these principles will make it possible to reduce the potential for disputes and other
causes of friction arising at any point between the start and the end of the resettlement process.
5.2.   Should any complaints or claims be recorded by the operators, particularly in the
settlement servicing subprojects, which are more complex to implement because of the diversity
of legal situations (tenancy, individual ownership, joint ownership, etc.), or where the quality of
constructions justifies the procedure, the parties concerned, within the context of Algerian
legislative provisions and judicial institutions (Civil Code, Law on Expropriation, the courts) are
entitled to seek legal remedy, but only after all other procedures have been exhausted for
amicable settlement within the associative and consultative framework provided in the urban
development regulations.
5.3.  In order to ensure the success of operations, the populations affected by slum
redevelopment and restructuring sub-projects will be informed and mobilized through their
elected representatives of the neighborhood associations. The APC (Communal People's
Assembly) and the technical and administrative units set up on each resettlement site will
endeavor to settle all disputes and solve all technical administrative and social problems
pertaining to resettlement. These units, which are composed of representatives of the regional
administration (directorates of urban development), the project operators, representatives of the
APC and most importantly the members of the local neighborhood associations, will strive to
settle amicably all disputes relating to the resettlement process.



Annex 12
Page 16 of 15
6.    Organizational responsibilities
6.1.  The RBP I project will be managed primarily by the MoH, which will provide
coordination at the central level through a standing project implementation unit within the
Directorate of Architecture and Urban Development. This unit, with appropriate staff and
resources, will be in charge of coordinating and supervising the activities of the different
agencies responsible for local implementation.
6.2.  The National Housing Fund (CNL) will be responsible for managing the financial side of
the operation at the central level. through its Comite des Aides (Assistance committee), which
will supervise the allocation of support to the various local implementing agencies.
6.3.  These implementing agencies are of two main kinds:
(a)   The subproject managers [maitres de Iouvrage], i.e. the Wilaya Urban Development
Directorates, which are entrusted with management of the different aspects (studies,
financing, program concept, etc.) related to feasibility of the subprojects located on their
territory;
(b)   the "operators," whose task is to implement the programs put together by the project
managers.
6.4.  Local operators are generally the communal or intercommunal Land Agencies, or the
regional agencies or branches of the Housing Improvement and Development Agency (AADL),
which generally operate as delegates of the subproject managers. They are directly in charge of
carrying out slum upgrading, settlement servicing, and site and services subprojects. These
agencies are in charge of the census of project sites, , purchase of the land for the site, and of
physical and human management of the resettlement plan, in particular its financial and legal
aspects (cost recovery, land title delivery, etc.).
6.5.  In addition, there is a third level of implementation comprising site supervisors, and
contractors (consulting firms, public works or building contractors, local micro-enterprises) who
are employed for specific contractual tasks: studies, site servicing, housing construction.
Below is the organogram for the RHP program:



Annex ]2)
Page 17 of 15
Organogram for the RBP Program
(as per PADCO report)
Bank
Loan
GIistry of finance
Onlending
Ministiy of Housing
(FONAL and RBPADUA Unit)
Allocation to FONAL
NATIONAL HOUSING FUND (CNL
(FONAL and Comit6 des AidesRHPJ
a
Beneficiaries,-    _          -------L--*-- .     -Local authorities
------- ---- _  ,._.__._._.._._._Jld other-s
'A                   A                  A
d                  d ,                d
0IA FL         u MOJAADL .           MO_P'nvate
HelpProect    elpPrOject           Help   Project
- - 4#  Individual assistance for self-help construction
-ft  Financial participation by beneficiaries and others



Annex 12
Page 18 of 15
7.    Methods of estimation
Resettlement and restructuring operations will bring considerable material and non-physical
benefits to affected households. Non-physical benefits either cannot be directly measured, or
may be seen only after several years have passed-for example, the ownership of property title,
allowing access to credit and cession to descendants through inheritance; or the improvement of
indicators of domestic well-being, or of the level of scholastic achievement. However physical
and economic benefits can be estimated using a simple and rapid method. The table in annex III
shows the benefits derived from the works, with the core unit expanded to 70 m.
7.1.  The material replacement value of assets lost is many times covered by the value of the
assets at the end of the resettlement process: an illicitly constructed slum dwelling made of
scavenged materials, of little market value is exchanged for a well built house, held in full,
alienable and transferable right of property. Thus on completion of the resettlement process,
households find themselves owning a material asset worth from 5 to 15 times their average
annual income.
7.2.  However, to the extent possible, i.e. when the quality of the materials used to build the
slum dwellings so permits, the developers of the resettlement subprojects will seek to save those
materials from destruction. This will enable them to be resold or reused by their owners in the
core-unit housing project. Such assets (doors, windows, railings, locks, metal sheeting, other
reusable construction materials) can thus be recovered and be reused directly or indirectly by the
beneficiaries in the construction of their new homes.
7.3.  Special administrative procedures may also be introduced beforehand or reactivated, in
the case of the settlement servicing subprojects. These will be detailed in the resettlement plans
drawn up for each subproject concerned.
8.    Monitoring and evaluation
8.1.  The following performance indicators will be adopted to evaluate the resettlement
activities:
(a)   Inputs:
* teams set up to implement each phase of the resettlement process (human and
material resources);
* surveys and inventories prepared by local developers upon completion of each phase
of the resettlement process.
(b)   Outputs:
* housing units built and handed over (number, quality, area, extent of finishing, etc.) per
phase and for the entire subproject;
* homes or businesses compensated or displaced during each phase of implementation.



Annex 12
Page 19 of 15
(c)   Processes
* Methods of construction used
* Methods of project management
* etc.
(d)   Outcomes
. maintaining or improving the levels of certain easily measurable standards of living
ndlicators: occupancy rate per housing unit (TOP) and comparison of those rates with
the rates measured in the pre-resettlement socioeconomic surveys before the
r esettlement process, increase or decrease in ownership of household appliances, etc.;
*net costs (within a suitable range) paid by households during the resettlement
(connection to utilities, household appliances, etc.), proportion of the new fixed
charges (electricity, water, etc.) in household budgets, etc.
Dropout rates for households unable or unwilling to accept the new conditions, and
procedures for handling those households.
8.2.  The following agencies have been appointed to monitor the resettlement process under
each subproject:
* the Direction de l'Urbanisme de la Wilaya, which will supervise all technical aspects
of resettlement;
* the Assemblie Populaire Communale, which will supervise the human and social
aspects of the operation in consultation with the beneficiary associations;
* specialized consulting firms or local developers, selected for their specific expertise
and charged with verifying and checking of specific aspects of the operations
(socioeconomic studies, site inspections, etc.).
8.3.  The Ministry of Housing wiMl send the Bank monitoring reports using a format agreed by
the two parties (World Bank and MoH) [Not annexed].
8.4.  The methods of evaluation will be taken from the Manual of Procedures now in preparation,
which, based on the cumulative experience acquired during implementation of the Project, will
provide a complete methodology for approaching, studying, and implementing slump upgrading,
settlement servicing and site and services subprojects. This manual will provide practitioners at
any level of the development process with the means of producing a final evaluation of their work..



ANNEX I - List of RHP1 subprojects
Name of subproject    Commune and K ilaya   Type of action    Project     Operators
owners
I      Sidi Harb IV        Annaba/Annaba           Slum            DU/MoH        AFIWA
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ U pgrading
2      Sidi Salem I        El Bouni/Annaba         Slum            DU/MoH        AFIWA
Upgrading
3      Merzoug Amar I      Sidi Amar/Annaba        Slum            DU/MoH        AADL
Upgrading
4      Essaroual           El Bouni/Annaba         Slum            DU/MoH        AFIWA
Upgrding
5      Drarbina I          AYn Abid/Constantine    Settlement      DU/MoH        AADL
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Servicing
6      Hakdebel            Constantine/Constantine   Settlement    DU/MoH        AADL
Servicing
7      Massinissa          El Kbroub/Constantine    Slum           DU/MoH        AADL
_______ _____  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Upgrading
8      El Bordj            Damous/Tipasa           Settlement      DU/MoH        AFIC Zeralda
I                 ._____                     Servicing
9      Douar Messaoud       Oued El Alleug/Blida   Settlement      DU/MoH         AF Blida
Servicing
10     HafBouamama I        Oran/Oran              Settlement      DU and APC   AADL
_                                       Servicing
11     Maramane            Blida/Blida             Slum            DU/MoH        AF Blida
.______ ______ _______ ____ _   Upgrading
12     AliAmar             FoukwTipasa             Settlement      DUlMoH         AFIC Tipasa
I________________   _____________________    Servicing
13     Diar El Bahri        Beni Mered/Blida        Sites and svs.    DU/MoH      AF BLida
14     Ha Hammar            Gdyel/Oran              Settlement      DU/MoH        AF Gdyel
Servicing
15     Addache I and II     Birtouta/Blida          Site & Service   DIJUMoH      AF Blida
16     Sidi Youssefl*       Beni Messous/Algiers    Site & Service    DUCH.MoH    AGERFA
17     Sidi Youssefl**     Beni Messous/Algiers    Site & Service    DUCHIMoH    AGERFA
18     Amn Melha 1***       Gue de                  Site & Service    DUCH/MoH    AGERFA
Constantine/Algiers    . _-
19     Aln Melha II****     Gue de                  Slum            DUCHfMoH    AGERFA
_ ____________  Constantine/Algiers          Upgrding
*, **, ***, ****: The list of selected sites within the Algiers Govemnomte is under revision, and a
list of the new selected sites will be issued at a later date.



AN'NEX II - List of Laws relevant to resettlement
(1)   The Civil Code (Ordinance of September 26, 1975 and its successive revisions.
(2)   The Environmental Code (Law of February 5, 1983) and its implementing
regulations (including Decree 90-78 of February 27, 1990 concerning
environmental impact assessments);
(3)   Land Tenure Law [Loi d'Orientation Fonciere] 90-25 of November 18, 1990.
(4)   The Law on Planning and Urban Development [Loi Relative a lAmdnagement et a
l'Urbanisme] (Law 90-29 of December 1, 1990) and its implementing regulations:
(i) Decree 91-177 of May 28, 1991 defining the rules for planning, urban
development, and construction;
(ii) Decree 91-177 of May 28, 1991 laying down the procedures for preparation
and approval of Planning and Urban Development Master Plans
(PDAU) and related documents;
(iii) Decree 91-178 of May 28, 1991 containing the procedures for preparation
and implementation of Land Occupancy Plans (POS) and related
documents.
(5)   Law 90-30 of January 1, 1990 concerning State-owned lands [domaines].
(6)   Enactments concerning land title preparation and recording.
(7)   Law 90-31 of December 4, 1990 concerning Associations.
(8)   Law 91-11 of August 27, 1991 on Expropriation for State-approved Purposes [pour
cause d'intirttpublique].
(9)   Legislative Decree 93-03 of March 1, 1993 concerning real estate activity; its
Article 7 sets out the eligibility criteria for govermment assistance for low-cost
housing promotional activities.



DEMOCRATIC ANT POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF HOUSING
Low Income Housing (RBP 1)
financed by the World Bank
PLAN FOR RESETTLEMENT OF THE SHANTYTOWN OF:
AMAR MIERZOUG I
Sidi Amar Commune, Annaba Wilaya



RESETrLEMENT PLAN FOR THE SHANTYTOWN' OF
AMAR MERZOUG I
(Commune of Sidi Amar, Annaba Wilaya)
1.1.  The Overall Project and the General Policy Framework
1.2.  Description of the Subproject
The Amar Merzoug I subproject consists of an operation to provide new housing for 441
households currently inhabiting the central, most densely populated part of the shantytown of the
same name and covering an area of 12 hectares. The work to be performed involves site
development of the first 12 hectare segment recovered on the actual site of the shantytown and
construction of 500 core housing units covering an area of 45 m2 on lots measuring 80 m2, and
the development of 250 additional serviced lots for low-income families, in an effort to prevent
slum expansion.
The second part of the operation, known as Amar Merzoug II, will benefit the rest of the
population of the site. This project is part of the slum clearance strategy put in place by the
Urban Affairs Department [Direction d'Urbanisme] of the Wilaya of Annaba, and so it is also
part of the intercommunal Urban Development and Land Use Plan [Plan d'Amenagement Urbain
et dVrbanisme] for Sidi Amar.
I.2.1. The Site: Identification
1.2.1.1. The general geographical and institutional setting
Merzoug Amar is a squatter settlement which has developed in a rural area, at a place
called "Douar El Gantra," located 8 km from the main town of Sidi Amar commune, which is
about 20 kilometers from the town of Annaba. It grew up along the wilaya road No. 108, which
joins National Highway No. 44 from Annaba to Constantine, at a former troop regrouping site
established by the French Army in 1958. Like most of the shantytowns in Annaba Wilaya, its
development was spurred by the El Hadjar steel complex, which was formerly the SNS, and is
now managed by ENSIDER (SIDER National Enterprise). The complex is only some 10 km
east of the shantytown.
Between the 1966 and 1977 census, and even more so between the 1977 and 1987 census,
all the hinterland of Annaba experienced rapid development of housing compounds. Some of
these compounds were built according to usual construction practices, but most of them were
temporary, flimsy settlements which grew up after the establishment of this steel complex. The
complex currently employs 12,000 persons, not counting all the related business it has brought
in, including construction and public works, service and transportation companies, and the like.



2
As an example, the commune of Sidi Amar, which had 16,400 inhabitants in 1977, 5,342
of whom (32.5%) lived in built-up areas, saw its population swell to 44,697 by 1987, 99% of
whom were living in built-up areas, and to 54,463 in 1996. This represents an "urban" growth
rate of 7.3% a year, well above the natural growth rate of 3.2% a year recorded for the same
period of time.
GraDh No: 1: Growth of the Total Population and the
Urban Population in the Commune of Sidi Amar
60000*..
4=0O -Pox
40000                
30000
200 -0
10000
6e             1977            1987
This considerable influx of migrant people in search of jobs has caused the slums to
spread over an area extending 40 km around the steel complex. In 1987, 14,000 shacks were
counted in the wilaya of Annaba, providing shelter for nearly 90,000 inhabitants in some forty
shantytowns of varying sizes. Amar Merzoug, with its 2,322 inhabitants occupying 450 shacks,
is an average-sized settlement in this respect, in comparison with other shantytowns such as Sidi
Salem, with around 1,000 shacks, which has arisen in the neighboring commune of El Bouni.
The Amar Merzoug subproject, which focuses on the most densely populated sector of
the shantytown of the same name, the part that developed around the original site of the former
camp established by the French Army in 1958, better known as the SAS, is not just a single,
isolated operation. It is part of a broader based strategy for dealing with the problem of squatter
settlements initiated by the wilaya authorities in 1993. Under this strategy, 3,200 shacks were
cleared in different parts of the wilaya, some of which were located in the main town of Sidi
Amar commune itself. A total of 1,263 lots were serviced. Core housing units were built on 730
of them, and the remainder were set aside for the ptupose of preventing expansion of the slums
or for real estate development.
This strategy is based on four guiding principles:
Incorporation of slum clearance operations into the Urban Development and Land Use Plans
[Plans d'Amdnagement et d'UrbanismeJ of the communes in question;



3
*     Providing an opportunity to the local people to choose between new housing on site in the
form of an expandable core unit financed by the national government or building their own
housing, with assistance, on serviced lots set aside for this purpose;
*     Direct participation by the local people in solving their housing problems, through the
neighborhood associations;
*     Development of a preventive, rather than just a remedial, approach to the problem of slum
housing.
It is in this context that the operation known as "Amar Merzoug Property Development" was
initiated by the Urban Affairs Department in the wilaya of Annaba. A local public property
developer, the Housing Improvement and Development Agency [Agence pour l'Amelioration et
le Developpement du Logement] (AADL) in Annaba was put in charge of the project.
It involves a shantytown called "Amar Merzoug," formerly known as "Douar El Gantra,"
covering 20,960 hectares bordered as follows:
*     To the North, by private land
*     To the South, by a primary school
*     To the West, by a railway
*     To the South [sic], by buildings and the feeder road to National Highway No. 16.
The purpose of this project is to service 1,417 lots measuring 80 m2 each, broken down
as follows:
a) 947 public housing lots [lots sociaux];
b) 470 serviced lots, to prevent slum expansion [lots de prevention];
c) 82 commercial lots, including 51 for public housing and 31 to prevent slum expansion.
In addition, community facilities, such as those described in Table 2 below, will also be
provided, as well as green areas, playgrounds, public squares, and other public facilities on 6.38
hectares of public land.
1.2.1.2. The resettlement site
The site is located in the central, most densely populated part of the shantytown, covering
12 hectares on which 450 shacks provide shelter for 441 households. According to a survey
taken by the AADL, the developer, and the APC in September 1997, 2,322 persons live in this
area. The remaining households located on the periphery of this core, which live in 550 units
scattered over an area measuring 8.69 hectares, will- be the focus of the second, subsequent stage
of this project. (See the plan for the Amar Merzoug subdivision.)
The sizes of the plots occupied vary from 40 to 100 m2 each, or an average of 50 m2.
The size of some plots located on the outskirts must be revised upward, as they include large
enclosed fields of up 400 m2 where livestock is raised. The physical features of the site,



4
including its size, the fact that it is not suited to crops because of its location alongside major
roads, the fact that it is relatively flat (with slopes from 0.5% to 1%), and its legal status, as
government-owned land, have encouraged a scattering of shacks and a relatively extensive
residential occupation.
Table No. 1. Housinz Conditions and Current Population
Number of plots with housing: 450
Type of construction (as a %)           Permanent construction: 17%
Shacks and similar units: 83%
Others:   %
Area of the plot with housing           Minimum: 40 m2
Maximum: 100 m2
Average:  50m2
Number of housing units: 450
Number of vacant units: 9
Number of households: 441
Number of inhabitants: 2,322
Number of working inhabitants: 230
1.2.2. Nature and Objectives of the Project
The underlying principle is to rehouse the families occupying the existing shacks in core
housing units built under this project. The objective of the project is to clear the slum housing
located in Amar Merzoug while offering the households residing on the site serviced lots
includig core housing units.
The work to be done consists in servicing the first segment of 12 hectares recovered on
the site of the shantytown, in building 500 45-rn2 core housing units for the same number of
households living at the site and in servicing 250 additional lots to prevent slum expansion.



5
Table 2 provides a detailed description of the project.
Table No. 2. Description of the Proiect
TYPE OF LAND USE        Area of  Number of Total Area  Total area    No. of
unit      plots     in m2      as a %     housing
(m2)                                        units
1. Settlement servicing
- Serviced plots with housing
- Serviced, unbuilt plots
2. Land development
- Lots with core housing, for
resettlement                 80        500      40000       33,33
- Serviced lots, to prevent
slum expansion               80        250      20000       16,66
- Individual lots           120         60       7200           6
- Shared lots
3. Construction
- Core housing units         45        500      22500                   500
- Finished individual housing
units   _     ___
- Rental housing in apartment
buildings (OPGI) 
Total Housing              _         __________              __         500
4. Community facilities
- Businesses
- General administration   1903,54        1      1903,54
- Schools                  4229,60        1     4229,60    _
- Health care facilities   2755,03        1      2755,03
- Sports and others        7082,99        1      7082,99
Total community facilities               4       15998,16    13,33
Roads, public easements, and
free space                                       36801,84    30,66
Total gross project area                         120000       100
e Number of housing units after the plots with existing housing are upgraded or number of units built under the
prognam
The resettlement of the targeted population in Merzoug Amar is justified by the
deplorable condition of living and housing standards of the local people, namely, the complete
absence of any basic infrastructure, including sanitation, roads, safe water supply, and electricity.
Waste waters are evacuated in open gutters or ditches which wend their way among the
shacks. In view of the fact that the land is relatively flat, the waters are frequently stagnant, with
all the health implications that entails.



6
Roads are nonexistent, pirated electricity is brought into the shacks by cables placed
along the ground, involving the risk of electrocution for children, drinking water is drawn from a
few rare standpipes, and household garbage is deposited in the open at a few collection sites
designated by the communes.
To improve these conditions, the following infastructure will be built on site:



7
Figure No. 1. MAP SHOWING THE VARIOUS RHP1
PROJECTS IN ANNABA WILAYA



8
Figure No. 2. GEOGRA?HICAL LOCATION OF THE
AMAR MERZOUG 1 SUBPROJECT
A                             C A i, A'       I                                     ;
i~~~~~~~~~~~~ V
,,  fM _    ,.AR ,    ,,XHAZ                             41            
-IF
* *- >_/ t '..... .C.  .  D --                                           A I        -         . ;
GXG   tR  - .*  '
*     g              I                            ,-' X<                                      *     l
., .  g     ..  .                1j5te   Ra amm    ttX  CE-ES;TUW. 
)~                                 j I                           TtotT 
'S                                                    rRIJZTs
*  I    * ~~~~. ~~  *.  *CIh~~ 4AWI



9
a) Sanitation:
Construction of a single sanitation system in which waste waters and rainwater are
channeled in the same drainage canal located downstream from the development.
b) Roads:
The road system will be made up of the main trunk roads and the pedestrian walkways
located within the housing division. This road network will be linked up to RN16 (National
Highway 16).
c) Water supply:
A grid system will be used for the water supply. The water will be piped in from the
existing 200 diameter pipe, and the water resource department will be in charge of the delivery
system.
d) Electricity:
Electricity will be supplied to the housing development by two transformer stations built
under the project. SONELGAZ will be responsible for the connection with the public lighting
system and for putting it into operation.
As for the actual housing, the project developer, namely, the AADL, has put the GART
Consulting Firm in charge of designing a core housing unit that can be extended horizontally and
vertically on the basis of a model that has already been tested at in other rehousing projects: 45
m2 of floor space, on a 80 m2 lot, including a 15.6 m2 room, a 7.88 m2 kitchen, a bathroom
measuring 6.12 m2, and a toilet. This should considerably improve the inhabitants' living
conditions. The principle adopted is to provide technical assistance and to supervise the home
expansion operations of the beneficiaries on the basis of their needs and available financing.
1.2.3. The local people
According to the detailed census of the inhabitants of the site conducted by the GART
Consulting Firm, in cooperation with the El Gantra neighborhood association and the local
authorities, 450 shacks were counted on the site of the subproject and 550 shacks in the area
surrounding the site. The resettlement will therefore affect exactly 2,322 persons.
The other households scattered in the surrounding area, namely 550, will be the focus of
the second segment of the operation. For this purpose, the local authorities and the operator, or
the AADL, have detailed lists of all the residents at the site, who have been duly identified and
listed, and it does not appear that any new shacks have been built since the census was taken in
September 1997.
The Amar Merzoug neighborhood association, known as the "El Amel Association of the
El Gantra Shantytown," authorized on February 14, 1995, pursuant to Law 31-90 on
Associations, by the wali of Annaba (see authorization receipt in the Attachments), aware of the
stakes involved in the operation, appears to be in control of the situation, especially since the
number of people moving into the shantytown appears to have gone down in the past few years.



10
According to the data from the socio-economic study conducted by the GART Consulting
Firm (Annaba Wilaya Consulting Firm), Amar Merzoug seems in fact to have shown a very clear
decline in new shacks built since the early 1990s, when the regional economy centered around
the El Hadjar steel complex began to decline. The site was relatively unattractive from the start,
as over half of its current population had been moved by the wilaya authorities of the main town
in the commune, Sidi Amar, in 1986. At the present time, it appears that the site only provides
shelter for those households that cannot go elsewhere, to places closer to sources of employment.



Figure No. 3
FA4;ADE AND FLOOR PLAN OF A CORE HOUSING UNIT
AMAR MERZOUG SITE
(core unit built by the government)
I,. _4LtiI
E      1 !-;                                        11  ' 
t~~~~~i                           ./ ;; .   j!0....4 i
. .  .   I   R   __  .  +_6
~......
I                  '.~~~~~~~~~~~~4



12
Figure No. 4
FA;ADE AND FLOOR PLAN OF A CORE HOUSING UNIT
AMAR MERZOUG SITE
.           --  
i  ___ r.=  
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 
--  --- -- - ____ r-
~ I;_        -          ---.
*  !      ~~-5,.-  :1 
rACA^ge E R.: /100
-~~-



13
1.2.4. Status of land, acquisition, and transfer
All of the land on which the slum upgrading project is based is government-owned
property. Acquisition procedures were initiated by the operator, the AADL, on May 31, 1997,
when it contacted the Government Property Department in Annaba. A 36-month payment
schedule was worked out, effective as of January 1, 1998. (A copy of the payment schedule is
attached.)
1.2.5. Compensation
The Amar Merzoug resettlement project is strictly residential in purpose. The people
concerned draw their income from work performed away from the site. During the survey, there
were no obvious businesses or handicraft or cottage industries identified in the shantytown that
would entitle the residents to receive compensation or indemnities due to their displacement or
suspension of their business.
The only income-producing activities identified on the site involved a traditional practice
of raising sheep and cattle on the side, but this operation amounted to only some ten head of
sheep and no more than three cows per household. The pastureland around the site was also used
for livestock, with the labor provided by family members of both sexes, and with makeshift pens
or sheds to keep or shelter the animals.
These enclosures, like the shacks, were salvaged illegally on the government-owned land
where the shantytown is situated. The largest ones do not cover more than 500 m2, and they
were made of a variety of used materials, such as wooden posts, wire, and other pieces of sheet
metal or metal debns, and of the thomy hedges of the opuntia (Barbary figs).



14
Table No. 3. The Compensation Matrix
A. FAMILIES
Summary of Losses    Definition of      Summary of Rights         Responsible
Beneficiary                                  Organizations
Loss of slum housing   Head of household   Core housing unit valued at  AADL, Annaba
D 350,000                 Urban Affairs
Dept. (DU)
Loss of landL/plot   Head of household  80 m2 lot, assigned at a   AADL, Annaba
(illegal occupation)                    price of D500/m2 (market   Urban Affairs
value=D1500/m2)           Dept.
Loss of area         Head of household   Equivalent or larger area    APC
(illegal occupation)                    for livestock (rented from
the commune or owned)     _
Loss of permanent           NA                     NA                    NA
house (legal occup.)
Loss of lot (legal          NA                     NA                    NA
occupation)                                          _-
Loss of land (legal         NA                     NA                    NA
occupation)
B. INDIVIDUALS-
Loss of harvest               NA                   NA                     NA
Loss of pastureland           NA                   NA                     NA
Loss of shed or pen     Owner            Plot of land in ZAC to          APC
(illegal occupation)                     build a shed or pen
Loss of official business     NA                   NA                     NA
Loss of informal business     NA                   NA                     NA
Resettlement process    Site resident    Rehousing                 AADI, DU
Resettlement expenses   Farmer           Plot of land              APC
Loss of earnings        NA               NA                        NA
C. NEW OBLIGATIONS
Title transfer costs (notary)   Owner          3% of Purchase Price of Lot
Electricity cost           Head of household    D1,500  installation   of  meter  by
SONELGAZ, quarterly invoice for
prorata use
Cost of piped-in drinking  Head of household    D4,000  meter installation, bimonthly
water                                          invoice
Land tax                   Head of household    Exemption
Sanitation fee             Head of household    16.5% of water invoice amount



15
1.2.5. Displacement reduction procedures
As pointed out earlier, the primary purpose of the project is the resettlement of the people
on the site in core housing units. This is the first part of a program which will eventually lead to
resettlement of all the inhabitants of the shantytown listed in the census on the Amar Merzoug
site.
The entire program is part of the slum clearance project adopted by the authorities of
Annaba wilaya since 1993. It consists of the following:
* Servicing and equipping the unsanitary housing sites which were under-equipped or totally
lacking in facilities;
* Offering the people living on these sites decent urban living standards by providing them:
i) Legal tenure of their land by issuing an authentic transferable title of ownership, which can be
tranmitted by inheritance and is eligible for mortgage loans;
ii) A core housing unit built and financed by the national government, which provides minimal
residential comforts, but especially social and administrative recognition and status enabling
access to the benefits of urban citizenship;
* Avoidance as far as possible of the inconveniences of being moved away from the site, which
could cause social, economic, and psychological disturbances.



16
ME={GOLJZ AMAR HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
.~~~~~ ~~~    - -i *-            an   -
{  . 1i---  -       ^ ' S1                           |  j4--m-wm
! i 2, gliilitF l
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        I
I~~~~~~~~~~~ I IIl11                              2I*H
1' p; JI
n~~ U
A~~~~~~~~~~~
i  1  j}3            @|                             -i i~VL~iiLi1 
.'  I r           I r 
- {7 - .- -- 1'    i,    .    ¢   ;   



17
2. PREPARATION OF THE RESETTLEMENT PLAN
2.1. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY AND CENSUS
2.1.1. Conducting the census
A detailed census of the population living at the site was taken in September 1997 by the
GART Consulting Firm, in cooperation with the El Gantra neighborhood association and the
local authorities (APC). The interviewers employed by the Consulting Firm, along with one or
more members of the "El Amel d'El Gantra" association, filled out a questionnaire for the
inhabitants occupying each of the 450 shacks that had been counted. These questionnaires were
subsequently used to prepare household cards, one per nuclear family, and a list of the names of
the heads of household surveyed was given to the APC and the neighborhood association, to
check it for accuracy.
This list of the names of heads of household included information on the following
variables: 1) Number of persons in each shack; 2) Number of shacks; 3) Year the household
moved in; 4) Place of residence prior to moving onto the site; 5) Income of the head of
household; 6) Number of working persons in the household; and 7) Employer or type of work.
On the basis of this detailed list, the GART consulting firm then proceeded to take a
sampling of 50 households, for the purpose of conducting an additional, more detailed survey
that consisted of a battery of 19 additional questions on the following subjects:
*     Identification variables, such as type of construction, level of construction, method for
evacuating liquid waste, use of the construction, its legal status, existing facilities, such as water,
electricity, sanitation, toilet, or bathroom, the type of family, and the like;
*     Attitude and behavior variables, such as intention to build something else on the plot,
financing method planned for the new construction, opinion regarding displacement from their
original homes, opinion on cost recovery, and the like.
The data collected were then processed by computer. On the basis of this information, some
ten tables were prepared for a single input, making it possible to describe the distribution of
replies to each question. No further multivariate analysis was performed. The results of the
simple analysis of the data from the sampling were put into a report entitled "Processing and
Analysis of the Results of the Socio-Economic Survey."
These data were then given to a sociologist for more detailed analysis and processing.



18
2.1.2. Results of the socio-economic survey and census
2.1.2.1. Results of the census
The small number of variables used in the census, which was, however, offset by the
comprehensive nature of the survey, gives a relatively accurate idea of the housing conditions of
the families, of their geographical origin, the date they moved in, the distribution of the income
of heads of household, and their employers.
The following conclusions can be drawn in general:
Housing conditions observed:
Overall, they are very poor. All the buildings surveyed on the site, without exception,
were "shacks or similar constructions." In other words, they were single-story homes with one
room (78%) or a maximum of two rooms (22%), made out of various light-weight materials, and
mainly of sheets of tin. They obviously had neither a "bathroom" nor a "kitchen," but areas
equipped to a greater or lesser degree for preparation of meals and a toilet in an outside or inside
courtyard.
The isettlement process and residential areas
An analysis of the people living in the Amar Merzoug shantytown brings out various
facts and sitaations. In the first place, it appears that most of the present population, i.e., 52%,
comes from the group of households that were evicted from the main town of the commune in
1986 by the local authorities.
Prior to that time, the settlement rate was relatively low, that is, less than ten new
households a year, and there was no significant rise in new shacks observed in subsequent years.
The only trend that stands out after 1986 is a slight diversification with regard to the
geographical origin of households. It seems that people started to come from other wilayas
further away, such as Tebessa, Souk Ahras, and El Tarf, whereas the population had been more
or less confined to the local area ever since the shantytown was established in the 1960s.
However, an analysis of the residential areas of all the households shows quite clearly a
gradual change in the residential and social function of the shantytown. If the group of
households which was rehoused on the site against their will is excluded, it is found that while
prior to 1986 most of the households were original occupants, they were replaced by a second or
even a third family after that date.
This means that Amar Merzoug has probably become a place where migrants in search of
jobs or housing make a temporary home, because shantytowns closer to the city of Annaba are
saturated. An examination of the employment of the heads of household confirms this finding.
It is apparent that jobs in industry, including unskilled and skilled workers, or foremen, masons,



19
and painters, were partially replaced by more distant "service" jobs, such as guards, agents,
supervisors, taxi drivers, and the like, or by unemployment after 1986.
Income:
An analysis of income by the census takers shows that the average income of employed
heads of household on the date of the survey was around D8,360 a month. However, if all
households are considered, regardless of their status-unemployed, employed, or undeclared, the
figure comes to about D5,1 00 a month. In this regard, it appears that levels of household income
are relatively similar, despite the fact that sharp contrasts were found between some households
with disposable incomes of no more than D2,000 a month, and others which exceeded Dl 8,000
per month.
It should also be noted that these figures do not include additional or make-up income
from secondary economic activities (which are principal activities in some cases), such as
informal businesses, but mainly sheep raising.
The GART Consulting Firm's socio-economic study does not provide any information on
the subject, but the phenomenon is apparent. At the site one can see several fenced-in areas
adjoining peripheral shelters with between 4 and 30 sheep in each. This provides a comfortable
income and an important source of funds for the households involved in this activity. The local
authorities, fully aware of its existence, have, however, taken care to allow for it by providing an
area next to the developed site so that these activities can be maintained. We do not, however,
have even an approximate assessment of the income from them.
Along these lines, we should mention that the fact that this shantytown is located at some
distance from the closest urban population centers, and that occupation of the site is so extensive,
has led to the development of makeshift farming activities, which reinforce its rural character. At
the same time, it should also be noted that it is difficult from a methodological standpoint to
assess the true level of the population's economic resources.
2.1.2.2. The results of the socio-economic study
Because of the reduced size of the sampling, bFased on a finite population, it is impossible
to make statistical inferences or to make detailed use of the information, by preparing two- or
three-input tables. However, the classifications obtained and certain significant overlaps make it
possible to provide a more complete description of the attitudes and behavior of residents and
their relationships with the social actors in the social structure. We will begin by examining
simple distributions of the first type.



20
Opinions and attitudes:
The following opinions and attitudes generally prevail:
Explicit housing needs
Of the 50 heads of household questioned, 100% view demolition of the shacks and
reconstruction as a prime necessity. Forty percent of them believe that piped-in water is the
second most urgent need, 56% put electricity in the homes in third place, and 52% of them
believe that legalization of their land tenure is the fourth priority.
Financing and cost recovery
Of the 50 heads of household questioned, 56% responded that they could defray the costs
of their upgraded housing and, of that group, 64% felt that they were in a position to make a
monthly payment equal to or greater than Dl,000 a month for cost recovery, while 16% of them
could make an initial payment of D3,000, and then make monthly payments of D100 a month.
Sources offinancing:
Of the heads of household questioned, 52% intend to borrow the money, 34% intend to
use their savings, and the rest are divided between undecided (7%) and no opinion (7%).
Rehousing
Finaly, as regards the opinions expressed on the actual resettlement in upgraded housing,
42% are in favor of rehousing on the site [operation-tiroir], 24% are in favor of receiving a plot
outside the siite, and finally the minority (20%) would prefer not to be moved from the plot they
were occupying at the time of the survey.
If, however, we look at the relationship between disposable or readily available income in
each household, or in other words the income level and whether or not there are monetary
savings, and the date on which the family occupied the premises, a certain facts emerge.
In the first place, it appears that opinions regarding the nature of residential projects, i.e.,
whether to remain or leave, are much more closely related to how long the people have been
living there than to income. For a given income bracket, households that moved in during 1985
and 1986, which for the most part were the families that had been displiaced in Sidi Amar,
seemed more inclined to remain where they were -than did the households which had moved in
more recently. In the second place, it appears that the declared disposable income, primarily in
the form of wages, was not the determining factor behind the tendency to want to "take a plot of
land elsewhere after the shacks are torn down." This attitude was most prevalent (82.4%) among
households which, no matter what their level of declared income, were willing to "use what they
had saved," or in other words households which believe they have enough savings to build their
own housing.



21
These results, and other not described in this analysis, seem to imply the following:
I) There is a general tendency to put down roots on the site, which is seen primarily in
households which, regardless of their income, have been there for over ten years. Time seems to
have had its effect, and households plan to devote an important part of their financial efforts to
becoming a lasting part of the on-site resettlement project.
2) It would appear, and this is not in the least paradoxical, that it is the households that
moved to the site more recently who believe "their savings" would enable them to participate in
an alternative residential project, despite the fact that their income is the same as or even less
than that of the longer-term households referred to earlier.
All things considered, this leads one to conclude that it is the few households that do not
have such strong ties to the site and believe that they have "savings" in one form or another
(monetary savings, but also probably livestock) feel capable of developing a residence away
from the site, according to a procedure other than the one proposed under the program.
Caution, however, is called for since this attitude could in the final analysis be attributed
to an overestimation of their financial capacity, which after all is relatively limited, and to a
failure to comprehend precisely what the project is about.
2.1.3. The impact
It is impossible to talk in terms of real negative effects with regard to residential
conditions. Resettlement of all households in core housing units not only means that these
families have access to property they can hand down to their heirs, something that was not
available before, but also that they have access to social recognition. In fact, to have housing
recognized by the government and society at large means above all access to a dignity and a
social existence whose benefits are easily recognized: a street address which permanently
elevates the residents to the category of city-dwellers; an actual "home" where they do not have
to be ashamed to invite friends and relatives; relinquishment of the status of "dead" because they
are living on the fringes of the city; and other considerations of this sort.
The interviews with the persons affected confirm the positive effects in terms of reducing
the costs of maintaining their families, despite the appearance of false payment constraints
related to the new fixed costs of the housing.
According to the inhabitants, the considerable reduction in the costs of health care,
transportation (taxis did not want to come into the shantytown, or if they did, they would charge
exorbitant fares, and public carriers had no lines going past the site, etc.), and the constant,
expensive maintenance of the fragile shacks, vulnerable to bad weather and quick to deteriorate,
and so forth, more than offset the increase, if any, in new expenses as a result of the upgraded
housing.



22
The parties concemed also seem to have a very clear idea of the monetary value of their
housing once it is regularized and completed. The profits they could realize if they should sell
the minimal core housing unit offered free of charge by the State are nearly ten times greater than
the initial capital outlay.
In fact, a quick estirate shows that the serviced lots with housing acquired for D20,000,
or the cost of buying two sheep, could be immediately resold at the price in effect on the local
market of more than D500,000, taking into account only the price per serviced square meter on
the market, plus D350,000, the amount paid by the State as aid to low-income residents..
2.1.4. Consultation regarding the results of the census
There were no consultations with the people in the context of the census. The opinions
expressed on the subject of the resettlement project were gathered by means of a socio-economic
survey. The majority was in favor of the resettlement project
The few reservations voiced on the "operation-tiroir" [upgraded housing on the same
site] came mostly from those households which had moved to the neighborhood, most recently
i.e. the most mobile group, who have just begun their migratory process. For this group, the
location of the site is not a clear advantage in their search for employment or additional sources
of income, in view of the economic stagnation prevalent throughout the region at this time.
What was important to them from the start was not to put down roots at a place that had no
benefits in terms of job opportunities, but rather the possibility of residential mobility offered by
the slum dwelling.
It is worth noting that these hesitations disappeared when more complete and detailed
information on the advantages of the rehousing operation was provided, in the form of formal
consultation procedures (the associations) and informal procedures (individual talks).
In the final analysis, all the people affected by the project accepted resettlement at the
site, according to the arrangements and conditions explained by the local authorities and
operators. This unanimous support for the project was largely facilitated by the "pedagogical"
nature of the core unit housing operation conducted in Sidi Amar, the main town of the
commune, which gave the inhabitants an opportunity to see for themselves exactly what the
residential project consisted of. The actual-size models of core housing units built at other sites
were visited by most of the heads of household. This made up for the fact that most of them
were not familiar with the standard plan.
Moreover, the inhabitants consulted indicated their acceptance of the 80 m2 lots, even
when that figure represented a reduction of more than two-thirds of the area they were currently
occupying. The advantages to be drawn from the operation seemed as a whole to outweigh the
disadvantages of having a smaller lot.



23
2.1.5. Additional censuses and surveys required
In view of the reliability and accuracy of the basic information collected for the purpose
of identifying and processing the beneficiary households, there is no need to repeat the census. It
would, however, be useful to look into the possibility of conducting a survey to evaluate the
impact of the resettlement several years after it is completed.
2.2.  THE RESETILEMENT SITE
2.2.1. The choice of the site
The site of Amar Merzoug was selected because it meets the following four requirements:
i)    The existing housing conditions at the site meet the national government's aid
eligibility criteria;
ii)   The resettlement can be accomplished there with a minimum displacement of the
local people;
iii)   The land available there is large enough to cover the entire program, without
entailing any major problems of acquisition and transfer,
iv)   Undeveloped land is available adjacent to the site of the shantytown for
construction of infastructure and plot servicing facilities for the first housing
blocks, without necessitating the displacement of the local people.
2.2.2. The site capacity
The physical features of the land, including its topography (relatively flat with a 0.5% to
1% grade), and the nature of the soil (slightly clayey sand), the size of the area (20.69 hectares),
and its legal status (government-owned land), all make the site of Amar Merzoug eligible for the
large-scale rehousing program comprising not only the program to resettle all the households
occupying the site, but also the serviced lots developed to prevent slum expansion and lots
developed for commercial purposes, community facilities, and other urban space (see Table No.
2).
2.2.3. Acceptability of the site
The people affected by the project know the site, since they live there, and in some cases
have been living there for over 30 years. Over 75% of them have approved the option not to
move or the "operation-tiroir" option set out in the socio-economic survey.
2.2.4. Replacement housing
As we explained earlier when analyzing the results of the socio-economic survey, the
target population has accepted the proposed housing strategy of the project, consisting of
ownership of the lot, assignment of a government-financed core housing unit at no cost to them,
cost recovery, size of the lots, and so forth.



24
The lack of information on the content of the architectural design of the core housing unit
caused some problems in the beginning. The scale model was not shown and presented directly
to the local residents, but to the members of the neighborhood association instead, and they had a
hard time describing it to their people. These problems, however, were quickly solved by giving
the residents an opportunity to see first hand a similar model built in Sidi Amar, the capital of the
cornmune.
2.2.5. Farming activities
The project includes an arrangement to transfer the three sheep pens surveyed by the
neighborhood association and the APC to an agricultural area adjacent to the site, located less
than 300 meters from their current location. This voluntary transfer of the livestock operation
will not entail any financial losses for the persons concemed.
This land is located in the ZAC (Commercial Activity Zone) set aside under the POS for
Sidi Amar. It will be appropriated for the purpose of raising livestock. The land will either be
leased to the commune, owner of the ZAC, at very low rates (the price for leasing agricultural
land), or else ownership will be transferred to the livestock farmers in question at the selling
price for pastureland, or under D20 per m2.
2.2.6. The site development arrangements
The same arrangements and procedures for acquisition, subdivision, and rehousing used
for the first segment of the Amar Merzoug program, the Amar Merzoug I subproject, will apply
to the second segment of the program.
2.2.7. The development stages
The only arrangements planned involve incorporating commercial lots on the site so that
small retail businesses can be insalled in the vicinity, to supply the people's needs for essential
goods, as well as to introduce a certain economic and social vitality in the neighborhood.
3. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
3.1. The Environmental Situation
The studies conducted by the environmental inspectors of Annaba Wilaya and the
analysis contained in the CREDES report clearly- show that there are rn,o air pollution risks
involved.
The Derradji Redjem environmental observation post located two kilometers from Amar
Merzoug has recorded the concentration of dust at 364 mglm3 of air, or in other words above the
WHO standard of 80 mg/m3. According to the Annaba environmental inspector, this does not,
however, constitute excessive air pollution.



25
This pollution comes from the El Hadjar steel complex, located some 10 kmn further to the
east of the site, is not constant, since the dominant winds blow along a north-south corridor, and
so generally bypass the impact zone.
3.2.  Pollution abatement measures
A series of measures to abate the air pollution in the area surrounding the El Hadjar steel
complex, the primary source of the contaminants, has been implemented since 1996. They
include the following:
*      Studies financed by the World Bank for the purpose of identifying the pollution and defining
treatment procedures and strategies;
*     The effective implementation of abatement operations guided by the World Bank for the
ENSIDER and ASMIDAL (fertilizer) complexes;
*      A program for treating dust from the PMA unit located inside the steel complex, which will
begin in March 1998. This treatment will consist in replacing the filters, according to a projected
program designed by World Bank experts.
The other abatement measure involves protecting the site from flooding. It is described
in the following table.
Table No. 5. Environmental Pollution Abatement Measures
No  Abatement Measure           Action                        Cost      Time
01   Protection of the site against   The soil is made up of quartzose  -
flooding                   dune sands which separate Fetzara
Lake from the old Annaba
lagoons. These sands, which are
3-4 m thick in the area of this
settlement, lie on top of an alluvial
series referred to as lagoon-marine
sands and clays. The land in
question is located above the
drainage canal, which is
downstream from the project and
serves as an outlet for the natural
reservoir (lake). (Natural drainage
_____________________________  system )
4. ASSETS
The principal economic assets surveyed consist of 3 sheep pens and stables built of scrap
materials. The pens are not covered, and include a small shelter made of tin that provides cover
for the animals during storms. The livestock totals around 40 sheep and 10 cows.



26
The measures adopted consisted in transferring these pens and stables to the commercial
activity zone (ZAC) adjacent to the site, provision for which is included in the POS for the
commune.
5. INCOME
5.1.  Impact Assessment
The resettlement operation will not have a direct negative impact on household income.
On the contrary, the site improvement work, involving servicing the sites, but mainly
construction of the core housing units, will directly inject additional income by employing local
labor at the construction sites. This labor will be hired primarily from a pool of unemployed
workers and young people without jobs living on the site.
The talks held with the inhabitants and members of the neighborhood association show
very clearly how this possibility of additional income as a result of the construction and
infrastructure projects is incorporated into the households' economic strategies. A quick
evaluation shows in fact that 100 work days paid at the level of the SMIG [minimum wage] or a
little more (piece-work) would enable the households to pay off in full the price of purchasing
their lot.
We have estimated that in 24 months, the project would create jobs for about 100
persons, at the rate of 120 work days each, for a total of 12,000 work days paid at the rate of
D400 a day, for total earnings of D4,800,000, which would be directly injected into the families
residing on the site.
Moreover, the transfer of the livestock operations to the adjoining ZAC will not entail a
substantial loss of income. Since it is a-secondary source of income, moving the operation will
not have a direct impact on the principal income of households.
5.2.  Income recovery strategies
The relocation of the animal pens to the ZAC will not only allow the households
concerned (three households) to recover their secondary income, but will also enable them to
make this activity a primary, profitable business, to the extent that it opens the way to eligibility
for agricultural investment aid.
5.3.  Consultation on income recovery strategies -
The Sidi Amar APC consulted with the heads of household affected by the resettlement
of the animal pens. Despite the illegal and informal nature of these activities, it offered to cover
all the costs involved in moving the livestock operation, by making available to the parties
concerned the means to transport the animals and by providing various types of assistance in
building the new shelters.



27
5.4 and 5.5. Compensation and the Risk of Income Loss
The rehousing will not have a direct impact on the households' income, since the
overwhelming majority of their income is derived from activities pursued away from the site.
The authorities and operators in charge of the project believe that economic compensation is not
required, except in the case of the households with secondary income from livestock operations,
and the risk of loss of income is nil in the short and medium run. On the contrary, the project
will make it possible to inject considerable resources into the site, and these resources could be
used by the rehoused families to pay for their lots and finish the work on their homes, or to create
small businesses within the village itself.
6. PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
6.1.  The consultation process
Even before the association known as "El Amel of the El Gantra Shantytown" was
established on February 14, 1995, the inhabitants of the site had approached their municipality,
through the Sidi Amar Communal People's Assembly, and the -representatives of the Urban
Affairs Department of the wilaya of Annaba to let them know that they were interested in a
resettlement operation along the lines of the one initiated in the communal capital.
The creation of a neighborhood association gave them a structure for consultations and
local participation. Various meetings were subsequently held with the local people for
information and consultation purposes, and the proceedings were recorded in minutes drawn up
pursuant to law. However, the delays experienced in starting up the project penalized the officers
of the association, who were accused of being lax.
6.2.  The reactions of the people
They were positive, and the local inhabitants expressed their interest in the rehousing
operation even before it was initiated by the local authorities.
This interest was demonstrated both in writing, in the minutes of the meetings of the
neighborhood association, and verbally, in discussions with the operator (AADL) the Urban
Affairs Departnent, or the APC.
6.3. The parties involved in the operation
They consist in the following, listed in order of importance:
1. The Urban Affairs Department (implementing agency)
2. The Sidi Amar Communal People's Assembly (public authority)
3. The Housing Improvement and Development Agency-AADL (the operator) (See
presentation card in the attachment)



28
4. The El Amal of El Gantra Shantytown Association (neighborhood association).
6.4. Dissemination of information
The information is tansmitted verbally, in the case of meetings for information,
coordination, and consultation with the local people and members of the neighborhood
association. Decisions are transmitted by mail to the headquarters of the association, local No.
346 located at Amar Merzoug.
7. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SUBPROJECT
7.1. The Irstitutions
7.1.1. Identification of the institutions
a)    The institutions in charge of carrying out the resettlement plan and their operations and
responsibilities are as follows:
PARTICIPANTS               OPERATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Urban Affairs Dept.            1. Implementing agency
2. AADL                           2. Developer: projectmanager
3. Commune of Sidi Amar           3. Manager of construction subsidies
4. CNL                            4. Accountant
5. GART Consulting Firm           5. Prime contractor, in charge of studies
b)    The institution in charge of setting up the income compensation program is the Sidi Amar
Communal People's Assembly.
7.1.2. Resettlement responsibility
The responsibility for resettlement will be assumed by the "Technical and Administrative
Assistance Unit" [Cellule d'Assistance Technique et Administrative], which will be set up at the
site for a period of five years once the project is started up. It will be made up of representatives
from the following entities:
1. The implementing agency (Urban Affairs Departnent of Annaba)
2. The operator or developer (AADL)
3. The neighborhood association (El Amel of the El Gantra Shantytown Association)
4. The municipality (Sidi Amar APC).



29
This unit will be in charge of managing the resettlement process, in coordination with the
housing assignment committee for the commune in question. These two institutions will share
the following responsibilities:
The communal housing assignment committee: It will establish assignment lists and post
them after it has checked rehousing entitlements and considered any appeals and after the
approval of the municipal council. The mayor will post the final lists approved by the committee
and the municipal council, at the headquarters of the APC. These lists will then be forwarded to
the operator, the AADL, which will be in charge of finalizing the purchase of lots and housing,
receiving the total payment or establishing a payment schedule, and finally directing the
beneficiaries to a notary to draw up their property titles.
The technical and administrative assistance unit: It comes into play once the assignee has
acquired the lot. It guides the beneficiary, provides the housing, and assists as the work is being
done, such as helping to obtain construction permits, technical advice, and the like. This unit
may provide other services and assistance free of charge.
7.1.3. Coordination
To the extent that the APC is the only entity with jurisdiction, coordination will be
handled within the technical and administrative assistance unit. There will have to be a
delegation of power to enable the unit to perform the tasks for which it will be responsible.
Specific resources should be provided to ensure it obtains the materials and equipment it needs,
such as office equipment, transportation, communication equipment, and the like.
7.1.4. Capacities
The operator in charge of the project has the following capacity in terms of human and
material resources (in the four national agencies):



30
Table No. 6. Human and Material Resources of the AADL
(Available for the 4 national agencies)
I  HIGH LEVEL       SKILLED STAFF   IMPLEMENTATION              TOTAL
STAFF                                  STAFF
40                 13                  29                 82
Material resources
a. Computer equipment
Microcomputers, with      Digitalization tables       Observation
printers and accessories           3         _
26           I3
b. Vehicles
V.L. Automobiles                        Average age
20                                  3 years
Financial references (turover)
DESCRIPTION                             AMOUNT
94 Fiscal  95 Fiscal  96 Fiscal
Year      Year       Year
Initial endowment          15000
FONAL grant              180000
MH Grant                           7700      18000      7000
Turnover (revenue)                    61200     145200    154000
7.1.5. Training and institutional development
No plan for the systematic training of the staff of the Urban Affairs Department and of
operators was developed. A few separate taining sessions were, however, organized for some
professional staff in the housing sector in 1996.
It is important to build the technical capacity of these institutions by appropriate short-
and medium-term training programs, to make them familiar with the working methods of the
World Bank, among other things. The area of urban project management could be given priority
in this regard.



31
7.2. THE IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
7.2.1. Schedule
The different stages of project implementation are shown in the following table:
Implementation Timetable: 30 Months
Week I  Week 2  Week 3     Week 4  Week 5  Week 6  Week 7 &E+
Acquisition of land  -                                .
Studies completed
Sanitation work                                           _
Roads and walkways       -                                 .
Water supply
Electricity
Housing construction
Resettlement of
inhabitants                                                         _
7.2.2. Timetable of operations
In addition to planning the production scheduling and time periods indicated above, and
the schedule for expenditures and resource mobilization (see financial sheet in the Attachments),
a monthly monitoring schedule will be drawn up. It must be rigorously followed. It will be used
to identify any failures to keep to the general schedule, so that they can be dealt with
immediately.
7.2.3. Relationship with the ancillary work
The schedule for resettlement of the people in their new housing will depend to a great
extent on the work implementation schedule, since the inhabitants cannot be resettled until their
housing is completed.
8. BUDGET AND COSTS
8.1. Authority
Financial responsibility for the operation is shared as follows:
* The CNL (National Housing Fund), which manages allocation of housing subsidies at
national level, is responsible for 70% of the project cost;
* The developer, i.e., the AADL, acting as project manager, is responsible for 30% of the
project cost. This developer, acting under the control and authority of the Urban Affairs



32
Department for Annaba Wilaya, is responsible for collecting this share from the beneficiaries, so
that it can be reinjected to cover the costs of servicing the lots.
8.2.  The sources of financing
There are two sources of financing:
1) The National Housing Assistance Fund (FONAL), part of the National Housing Fund (CNL),
which provides 70% of the project financing;
2) The beneficiaries, which provide the remaining 30%.
Another.secondary source outside the project can be requested. 'Ehat is the Communal
People's Assembly, which can provide services free of charge, financed fiom its own capital, to
assist the residents concerned, as part of its obligations and prerogatives as a public authority.
This assistance can take the form of trucks and other means of transportation to move the
furniture and personal effects of the inhabitants, bulldozers to demolish the shacks after the new
housing is built, and so forth.
The financial circuit can be described as follows:
1)    Once the work is done by the co-contractor, a document called a "counter statement"
["attachement contradictoire"] is drawn up every month and approved by the contracting parties,
i.e., the Urban Affairs Department, as the implementing agency, the AADL as the
operator/developer or the project manager, the Consulting Firm as the main contractor, and the
contractor, either a company or a jobber.
2) -  On the basis of this statement, the contractor  will draw  up a "statement of
work" ["situation de travazau], which is approved in the same way;
3)    The operator draws up a payment order, to which the "work statement" is attached; these
are forwardeel to the CNL for payment;
4)    The CNL makes out the check to the co-contractor.
8.3. Identification of rehousing costs
All the rehousing costs are covered by the budget allotted for the project. The financial
sheet provides a breakdown of these costs.



Table No. 6. Investment Expenditures (in MD)
Settlement           Site
Expenditures        servicing       Development*      Construction          Total
l___________ jCost/ha   Amt.   Cost/ha   Amt.   Cost/ha   Amt.                Amount
A. Land                     _____ _ _
Acquisition of the                    0.46       5.6                            5.6
lan d__                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___            _ _ _ _ _ _  _
B. On-site works
and infrastructure
Studies and controls                  0.11       1.28                          1.28
Roads                                 2.45     29.40                          29.40
Sanitation               .            1.9      22.80                          22.80
Potable water                          1.4      16.8                           16.8
Public lighting                        1.5      18                             18
Electricity                           035        4.2                            4.2
Other infrastructure                            18.24                          18.24
(contingencies)                                               _
C. Construction
Studies and controls  _                                   0.00     3.72         3.72
Main structural                                           0.007  150          150
work_                   _    _        _    _    __          _    __           __
Secondary and other             ,                         0.003   65           65
work                                                    __                      . __
D. Off-site work
Studies and controls                 _
Sanitation
Potable water
Other infrastructure
E. Management
costs
Cost of operator                       0.31      3.77 f   0.34      4.08        7.85
Taxes (VAT= 14%) Ij        I        t  0.04      0.55 f   0.05      0.58        1.13
Other expenses    f                    0.008     0.10 [   0.008    0.10         0.20
GRAND TOTAL   |            |        t 8.53    120.74 t   0.41   223.48        344.22
* Site development includes slum clearance ("Operation tiroir")
** Includes related costs.



ALGERIAN PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
MJNISTRY OF HOUSING
DIRECTORATE OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT
OF THE WILA YA OF ANNABA
OPERATION TO UPGRADE AND DEVELOP SLUM
SETTLEMENTS
. ~APRIL 1998
. ~SOCIAL HOUSLYC PROJECTz[P



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION ........................................................I
2. PREPARATION  OF RESETTLEMENT ACTION  PLAN  ......................................................9
3. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ....................................................... 1 6
4. ASSETS ........................................................                                                 16
5. INCOME RESTORATION .......................................................                                      17
6. PARTICIPATION AND  CONSULTAITON                                  ............................................. 19
7. IMPLEENTATION ........................................................                                         20
8. BUDGET AND  COSTS .......................................................                                      22
9. RISKS ....................................................... .                                                23
10. GRIEVANCE REDRESS .......................................................                                      23
1. MONITORING AND REPORTING                                   ........................... 23
MAPS
1. WILAYA OF ANNABA, SHOWING SIDI HARB IV AND 3 OTHER PROJECTS ..........................4
2. SITE MAP OF SIDI HARB IV ...................................................6
3. PROPOSED PHASED RESETTLEMENT PLAN .........................................15
ANNEXES
1. SIDI HARB PROJECT TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
2. LETTER WRITmEN BY THE PRESIDENT, EL ANSAR ASSOCIATION OF SIDI HARB
3. SocIo-EcONoINc CHECK LIST
4. SUmmARY OF ENVIRONEMTAL MITIGATIoN MEASURES
PHOTOGRAPHIC ILLUSTRATIONS
1. CITY OF ANNABA (FIGS 1-4)
2. PEOPLE OF SIDI HARB (FIGS 5-8)
3. HOUSING IN SIDI HARB (FIGS 9-11)
4. DANGERS FOR THE CHIDREN OF SIDI HARB(FIGS 12-14)
5. VISION FOR THE FUTURE(FIGS 15-17)



SIDI HARB IV RESETTLEMENT PLAN
1. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
1.1   Overall Project and Policy Framework
Project description. The project aims to improve urban housing conditions for low income
residents in towns in five districts of Algeria, through a series of sub-projects in three
components: (i) the upgrading of slum settlements and rehousing the residents in new core units
on site (about 2,000 households) with full title; (ii) the provision of basic municipal services
(roads, drainage, sewerage, electrification, water and lighting) to unserviced low-income areas
(about 6,700 households) and (iii) provision of serviced lots for new individual housing
construction, with a subsidized credit scheme targeted to low income and vulnerable households
(about 2,900 households).
The role of resettlement in the Project. Resettlement will occur in the case of the first two
components. In the first case, slum upgrading, it will affect all residents on site except those
whose houses conform to minimum construction standards. In the second component, servicing,
it will affect only those residents whose houses have to be moved in order to create easements or
rights of way for services to the community. In the first case, resettlement is the component
objective, the means by which benefits are delivered to beneficiaries, and the objective is to
maximize the benefits and beneficiaries, while minimizing disturbance and inconvenience. In
the second case, resettlement is a by-product of the development objective, and resettlement wil
be minimized. In both cases, the process of resettlement through providing standard, serviced
housing and titled lots conforms to the strongest desires of the beneficiaries themselves.
Resettlement policyframework A resettlement policy framework document has been prepared
and revised in accordance with comments made by the World Bank. It lays out the principles
and objectives of resettlement, and creates the framework for individual resettlement plans,
defining eligibility for project benefits, the rights of the affected population, the table of
compensations, the operational and managerial anrangements of the project, and arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation. Given the different circumstances of different cities and towns, each
Urban directorate evolves its own program , plans and approaches within the context of the
policy framework. Although the project builds on already established successful practice, it is
recognized that there is still much to learn, and a manual of procedure is being developed to
encourage good practice. The Sidi Harb IV resettlement plan was prepared concurrently with the
Policy Framework, but prior to its finalization.
Project affectedpersons. In this sub-project, Project Affected Persons PAP refers to all those
persons resident within the sites in which the developments financed by the Project will be
undertaken. This includes those who would be rehoused, those whose houses would be left, and
those whose occupation or use of the land would be affected. However, since those to be



resettled are entirely beneficiaries for whose benefit the project has been designed, and since they
see themselves in this way, the term "beneficiary" is used unless the context demands otherwise.
Entitlement policies. Those being resettled will be compensated many times over for any losses
in kind, and will enjoy a far higher standard of living than previously. Monetary compensation is
neither necessary nor desirable. All residents will be entitled to a fully serviced lot of 90 mi and
a core three-room house on site (or on an immediately adjacent site for a minority, of 45 m2 of a
replacement value of approximately 350,000 DA (around US $6,000). All residents (family
heads), who have no legal rights to the land and whose present constructions are illegal, will
have access to full land and property title, and the right to obtain construction permits to extend
their dwellings horizontally and vertically (1 additional story). It has been determined that the
entire population to be resettled are entitled to State assistance.
All residents were enumerated, and there have been no additional settlements since that time, the
local communilty association having ensured that no newcomers have constructed dwellings, and
there being in any case no vacant land on which this could take place. In the case of polynuclear
families, each nuclear family unit will be entitled to project benefits.
Those families who prefer not to remain on site, but to apply for assigmnent of a "lot de
prevention" will be enabled to do so and will be eligible for state assistance in housing
construction according to the available schedules.
It is not the policy of the project that beneficiaries should get all benefits entirely fiee, but rather
that they should be required to make a modest contribution, which is well within their means and
accepted by them. They will pay 20% of the land title (DA 30,000), a portion of the costs of
servicing for connections to their house (DA 25,000 or about 16% of the costs): to put this in
proportion, that is the equivalent of about S sheep, or about 5 months of the average resident
household income. The purpose of this cost-sharing is to enable the benefits to be more widely
spread, and to stimulate the beneficiaries towards an attitude of self-help and away from the
expectation that government should provide everything free.
Special arrangements will be made for vulnerable people either by financial assistance in order to
allow them to participate in the project or, as appropriate and for a very small number, allocation
of rented social accommodation (apartment in town).
The 38 families living in the adjacent forest, who are being resettled for reasons of environmental
protection, will be treated as full project beneficiaries.
Valuation. The site in question is Annaba municipal land, presently used entirely for residential
purposes in housing constructed illegally by the inhabitants of the site over the last thirty years.
The inhabitants are unanimous and vocal in their position that, in comparison with the future
value of the housing and lots which they will acquire, any value that might be attibuted to the
present structures is so trivial as not to merit the process of valuation. They would willingly
participate in the destruction of their present housing. In their view, that any process of valuation
of any aspect of the present site would be a complete waste of time, and an unwelcome delay in
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                          Page 2



the process of rehousing which they have been expecting for many years. Their demand,
presented orally and in writing, is for the most urgent implementation of the project.
The replacement value of a slum dwelling is not more than DA 25,000 DA, including labor, and
in most cases considerably less.
1.2   Description of the project component
Project site. Sidi Harb IV, in the town of Annaba, is the largest of four sectors of the huge slum
area of Sidi Harb. It is 2.5 km west or the city center, at the bottom of foothills of Jebel Eddough
(see map 1).
General situation. Annaba is a the fourth largest city in Algeria, with a population of around
400,000 whose settlement dates at least from Roman times (known as Hippone, famous as the
birthplace of St. Augustine, then as Bone under the French occupation). It became the site of
two major industrial complexes, the major SIDER steelworks of El Hadjar, 15 km to the south,
which employs 7,000 workers; and the ferdlizer complex of ASMIDAL, next to the harbor, 2 km
south-east of the city center, which employs around 3,000 workers.
Growth of slum areas in Annaba. Small slum areas (bidonvilles) existed before Independence,
but their major growth came with the construction of SIDER and its operation. During the
1970s, Annaba's population grew at an annual rate of around 10%. Many of the slums were
concentrated around the steel mill, but slum areas in the city also grew rapidly, particularly Sidi
Salem and Sidi Harb. There were at least 24,000 slum dwellings counted in 1987, housing
approximately 170,000 persons. A site specific program of rehousing slum-dwellers in social
housing (apartments) was not adequate to deal with the problem. In 1992 a new approach was
developed, based on development in situ of core housing units financed by the government,
which reduced the cost per unit to one third of that of an apartment unit. From 1993 to the
present, this program constructed 3,200 units, benefiting some 22,000 people. It was in this
context that a program for Sidi Harb was prepared in 1995.
Three sectors of Sidi Harb, now known as Sidi Harb I, II and Il, have already been substantially
developed, with servicing, housing construction and slum clearance. Inhabitants in the other
three areas have already been rehoused in situ in core housing units of 45 m2 area, on 90m2 lots.
A small number of families from other parts of the city have also been resettled in this area. Sidi
Harb IV, the largest and densest of the sectors (11.76 ha) was designated the priority area and
proposed for World Bank financing. Its development has yet to start, and is now a matter of the
greatest urgency, its inhabitants considering themselves to have been penalized in comparison
with their neighbors.
Projectpopulation. The site (Map 2) contains 468 households comprising 3,830 persons.
Health, sanitation and living conditions are extremely poor. The site is characterized by steep
slopes of 2% to 40%, and is cut by a flood drainage canal lined with cement but in need of repair.
The drainage canal also serves as a sewerage outlet and a depository of domestic waste. The
constructions on the site are primarily cement block housing without foundations or
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                       Page 3



MAP 1: WILAYA (DISTRICT) OF ANNABA:
LOCATION OF SIDI HARD IV AND THREE OTHER SLUM REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
.;,,    ...  ., ~~* 'I                  ' '  \                    . U
SIDI HARB IV                -
/'~~~~ 9
!c -'~ -                                           .--D    
REP.7A.ZA _     r.ARAZA.
p~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
MERZ0UG AMAR....*
~~* ~~   I  ~    ~        R~SEAU   XzSUmN?
;;b~~~~~~~~~'.                                -E.  3
.. .f"---''''RESEAU "ROJE .
Akpproximate scale (Kmn)                                   GARE EX.STAN~TE
0         2         4          6         8         10                       STATION EXISAbJT
[)STATION PROJETEE        /
Algeria: Low income Housing Project
Sidi Harb rV Resettlement Plan                                                 Page 4



reinforcement, roofed with asbestos cement sheets. All but 39 houses are poorly constructed, in
extremely poor condition, flimsy and in need of constant repair, with cracked walls and leaking
roofs. There are no social amenities. The children go to school in the neighboring
neighborhood. Fuller details are provided below.
Project objectives. The project objectives are (i) to meet the urgent and priority housing needs of
the population on site by the construction of 500 new core housing units; (ii) to provide servicing
(streets, drainage and sewerage, street lighting, electricity and domestic water supply, sidewalks,
roads); and (iii) to integrate the site and its populations into the framework of urban planning
(urban master plan  {PDAU} and land occupancy plan {POS}) and thus render it eligible for
future investment by the appropriate agencies in public amenities (space has been identified and
reserved for a school and community social center has been included in the site plan, and a health
post is planned immediately adjacent to the site: see map 2).
Land status, acquisition and transfer. The land was state land until 20 August 1989, on which
date its ownership was transferred to the Municipality of Annaba by authority of a decision made
by the Governor of the District of Annaba', and the subsequent act of cession by the Director of
Lands of Annaba District2 dated 14 July 1993 and published by the Land Commission3 on the
4th of October 1994. The Municipal Land Agency4 (AFL) is authorized to subdivide and sell the
parcels to private ciizens for residential and commercial purposes.
Under the project, the site will be divided into 500 lots for social housing units designated for the
population of the site, 6 commercial lots, and 34 lots designated for low income families. Thirty
nine lots on which residents have built housing of sufficiently high standard will be retained and
demarcated.
Once the project is under way, every family head will be provided by the AFL with a certificate
of lot assignment5 which entitles the holder to full proprietorship of a single designated lot after
payment of a nominal price has been made. The family head takes the receipted certificate to a
lawyer, who, on payment of a modest fee, draws up an act of ownership for the new landowner,
and who registers the title in the owner's name with the appropriate authority.
Even before transfer of title, the owner has security of tenure on the basis of the certificate of
assignment and may occupy the house.
Le Wali de Annaba.
2 Le Directeur du Domaine de la wilaya de Annaba.
3 Le service de la Conservation fonciere.
L'Agence Fonciere Locale (AFL).
Attestation de decision d'affectation du lot.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                          Page 5



MAP 2: Sr=T OF SIDI HARB IV, ANNABA
Sidi Harb III
I  -  ~~~~~~~i'Erbanb Hospital 
-              . 
Approximate scale (Km)
0          0.2        0.4         0.6         0.8        1.0
Algeria: Low income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                                            Page 6



Procedures to minimize displacement. Displacement is minimized by the resettling of people
on the site they presently occupy. Resettlement in order to improve the standard of living is the
object of the sub-project, through the conversion of illegal, haphazard and unsafe settlements into
an integrated, legal settlement in which all heads of household have titles to their lots, and in
which a marginalized population is enabled to have access to the full benefits of urban life which
they strongly desire. Minimization of involuntary displacement in the context of this project
therefore means minimig disturbance, which is done through five mechanisms:
(a)   Any whose houses are considered of sufficient standard will retain their housing
and lots. In the case of 39 households, the houses have been accepted, and the
boundaries of the lots will be drawn to conform to site norms.
(b)   All families will remain on the site, except for (i) the first group of 32 families,
who will be resettled immediately adjacent on the site of Sidi Harb m (a distance
of some 100 meters) in order to free up the first block of the site for housing
construction; (ii) the 38 families who will be moved from the forest; and (iii)
those few vulnerable families eligible for rented social accommodation.
(c)   The disruption caused by displacement is also ensured by the method of
"operation tiroir". By this method, described in more detail below, the site is
divided into blocks, and each block is successively moved to housing constructed
on one or more adjacent blocks. Thus affiliations of neighborhood (often linked
to family relationships) can be preserved.
(d)   Those families who wish voluntarily to move to another site (suitable for those
with greater means and ambitions to construct a larger house) may apply for
assignment of a "lot de prevention".
(e)   Preservation of the main characteristics of site layout in the development plan
(arrangement of houses and pathways).
Entitlements and benefits
The Municipal Council6 is responsible for designating beneficiaries. All those who were
enumerated as resident on the site during the site census conducted by the council and the local
elected committee are eligible for project benefits, together with those whose subsequent appeals
for inclusion have been accepted by the council. The benefits, summarized in the table below,
are to housing ready for occupation constructed in advance on the site, with full and transferable
title to fully serviced lots of 90m2, sewage connection to the municipal networks, drainage, roads
and sidewalks.
6
Assembl6e Populaire Communale: APC. See below (xx) for description of the composition, responsibilities
and functions of this organism.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                          Page 7



The value of the constructed house is 350,000 DA (about $6,000), and the resale value of a
serviced lot plus core unit is not less than 6,400 DA per m2, or 575,000 DA ($9,900). Against
this the beneficiary has to pay, in order to become an owner, the sum of 45,000 (500/m2) for the
lot, plus other charges. Against a total 65,000 DA ($1,120) may be paid in inslments over a
period of at least a year, and a maximum estimated loss of housing worth at most 25,000 DA
($430).
These economic benefits are at least six times the cost to the beneficiary. To this must be added
the intangible value of a legal and secure status, and all the benefits of living in a safe and
healthy environment. The immense importance which the beneficiaries attach to this is
documented in the socio-economic information provided below.
Table 1: Summary of losses and entitlements
Type of loss               PAP                 Entitlement
Loss of land use (residential,   Family head, eligible  Right of ownership to serviced lot of 90m2
illegal occupation)        for state assistance,   on the site on payment of 45,000 DA ($750)
not indigent
Loss of land (legal occupation) None
Loss of housing (illegal   Family head (male or  Free core unit, fit for occupation, of 3 8m2,
construction) of maximum   female)             costing $6,000
value DA 25,000 ($430)
Loss of housing (conform   None
to housing standards)
Loss of land and housing   Indigent PAP        Either (i) assistance from Municipal
(proposed by local    Council, local community, and other social
committee and       safety net resources sufficient to meet
accepted by         ownership requirements or (ii) social
Municipal Council)   housing at a monthly rent of (4,000 DA:
$69) with the possibility of social safety net
assistance
Loss of agricultural or pasture  None
land, trees, gardens, crops
Loss of income             None
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                            Page- 8



2.    PREPARATION OF RESETTLEMENT ACTiON PLAN
2.1   Conduct of census and socio-economic surveys
Conduct of census. A complete census was conducted on all slum dwellings. The 39 houses
which were of acceptable quality were not included, since the families were not eligible for
rehousing. The enumeration was done by the municipal regulatory agency of lands and real
estate (La Fonci&re),7 in association with the community committee (TEl Ansar of Sidi Harb"
(The Victorious of Sidi Harb) in April 1997. Agency staff and the members of the association
physically painted an individual number on each slum dwelling, and completed an investigation
form for each family according to a household questionnaire form proposed by the World Bank
A "household" was defined as a nuclear family. Thus a single slum dwelling might contain two
or more "households". Thus the number of "households" enumerated was greater than the
number of slum dwellings.
Information was also obtained on number of persons in each household, type of construction,
sanitation facilities, use of construction, juridical statues, number of rooms, electricity,, water,
kitchen, sanitary facilities, bathroom, family type, whether house was bought, constructed or
inherited, priority of needs, willingness to pay for future lot and amenities, and whether payment
would be made by lump sum or in installments, whether people would prefer to remain or move
to an alternative location
Tlhe household questionnaire, in French, was translated verbally into Arabic by the investigators.
There was no trained sociologist on team, and no qualitative information was obtained at the
time. An analysis was conducted on a sample of 50 households. Subsequent evaluation of this
exercise led to the conclusion that while the census results appeared to be reliable (or at least
could be recalculated with qualification, the socio-economic evaluation results were not. The
negative evaluation of the socio-economic evaluation was based on the grounds that (a) the
sample was too small to yield statistically significant results and (b) the meaning of many
questions, and the way the questions and answers were interpreted, was in many cases unclear.
This qualification applies particularly to those questions on fiture intentions, willingness to pay
or ability to pay, and willingness to move.
A subsequent socio-economic evaluation was undertaken in January 1998 by a consultant
professional urban sociologist who reanalyzed the results of the sample of 50. The consultant
also visited the site and interviewed local inhabitants, both the committee and ordinary citizens,
and qualitative information was added during a subsequent World Bank mission in March 1998,
which included site visits, interviews and the making of a videotape.
7  L'agence communale de regulation fonciere et immobiliere.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                       Page 9



This reanalysis resulted in a definitive number of 468 eligible families, and no non-eligible
families. Copies of the census results are retained at the Annaba Municipal Council (APC) and
at the Annaba Municipal Land Agency (AFL). A copy of the socio-economic reports have been
transmitted to the World Bank.
2.2 Findings of the socioeconomic study
The overwhelming conclusion from the subsequent evaluations, which did not come out clearly
in the first questionnaire survey (See Annex 1, section 6), is the strong and apparently unanimous
desire of the population to be resettled in the proposed project.
Housing. 16 percent of the houses are three-roomed, 22 percent are one-roomed, with the great
majority being of two rooms. Only 2 percent have four rooms. Housing occupation ranges from
I to 6 persons per room, with a mean of 2.7, and an average household size of 5.5.
Structurally, all but 39 of the slum dwellings in Sidi Harb are in an unsatisfactory state. They are
constructed either of iron sheets, or of concrete blocks, roofed with asbestos cement sheeting,
often cracked, broken or partial sheets, improperly secured. Stuctures thus require constant
maintenance. Most have no proper foundations, and are damaged by flash floods or storms.
Many of the strikers are unsafe (the area is in Seismic Zone II. (moderate risk. Inhabitants place
little value on their present structures, have little wish to salvage materials, and consider them an
embarrassment Several stated that, if they could get a new house under the project, they would
willingly destroy their own houses without waiting for the municipality to come and do it.
Possessions. The level of household possessions varies considerably among residents. Some
houses are almost bare, except for some bedding and basic cooking equipment. Others have
refrigerators, televisions and satellite dishes (the latter two often being acquired by group
purchase). Possession of consumer durables is inhibited by the fact that most slum dwellings
cannot be securely locked.
Sanitation is rudimentary. Many houses have their own septic tanks, but some discharge
directly into the canal. Untreated sewerage is a hazard, particularly for children. However, no
convincing evidence was found to indicate that morbidity or infant or chlld mortality rates were
higher in Sidi Harb in other non-slum parts of the city.
Roads. The site has no proper roads, and is only partially accessible by motor vehicle. roads.
roads
Electricity. The majority of houses are connected by illicit connections ("piratage") either
directly to the supply line, or indirectly to a legal user, or to another illegal user. At least half of
the houses seem to be so connected-in many cases in such a way that kinship affiliations may be
traced through the informal electricity network. Almost all of the connections are extremely
unsafe, and may be easily detached. In 1997 a child was electrocuted. Most people have to pay
another user for electricity, at rates apparently considerably above those applying to legal
connections.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                       Page 10



Schooling. Home conditions provide a strong disincentive to home study: absence of lighting,
and crowded conditions.
Dignity and shame. Inhabitants of Sidi Harb feel a deep sense of shame, resentment and
embarrassment on account of their habitat. Many and vivid accounts were given of what it
means to live in an illegal slum. Without a street address, one is virtually "without fixed abode".
Daughters find marriage difficult as her parents could not invite prospective in-laws to visit The
difficulty of washing properly is a matter of great shame, great importance being attached to
having a house with a proper bathroom, toilet and shower. Husbands and wives lack privacy,
and reportedly may spend years without enjoying normal marital relations. The attraction of a
proper house, a street address, served by a road usable by motor vehicles, contrasts so sharply
with present conditions that people wish to make a radical break with it. This explains the lack
of interest in valuation of present property. It also explains the relative indifference to moving or
remaining on site. Some said they would move a hundred kilometers if the end result were
ownership of a proper house.
Social organization. The population is characterized by its relative homogeneity, its integration
into the urban economy, and its entrepreneurial character, all positive signs for project success.
Settlement was largely by people who already had jobs in the city, and were looking for a place
to live. The majority (88 %O) moved from Annaba town, only 12% having come directly from
other neighboring wilayas. A first layer of settlement began in the 1960s, a post-independence
urban influx comprising mainly artisanal job-seekers (electricians, welders, cooks, builders) for
whom shantY town dwelling was the only affordable solution to their residential needs. 14 % of
the inhabitants came before 1988. This group is well integrated into urban life, and their children
and grandchildren have been able to get education and, for those of working age, often good,
even professional, positions in employment.
From 1988 to 1990 there was rapid influx, accounting for 70 percent of the inhabitants; by which
time the site had become crowded, and new arrivals found it increasingly more difficult to obtain
a place. This second group of people is rather younger, less educated, less qualified, and less
well employed.
Incomes. The survey indicated family incomes ranging from DA 5,000 to over 8,000, with a
mean of around DA 8.500. However, this figure should be taken as the declared income of the
household head from one employment. It appears likely, from informal inquiries, that average
family incomes are perhaps 50% more tian this. Therefore, this type of urban resettlement
program is attractive to them. On a sample of 50 (too small to be statistically significant)
declared household head incomes were as shown on the following page:
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page  1I



Sidi Harb: Income distribution (sample of 50 households)
Income (DA)           Number              Percentage
(household heads)
< 5,000                6                   12
5,000-8,000             23                   46
Over 8,000              6                    12
Undetermined             15                   30
Vulnerable people. The site contains some widows and single women who had come to town
for similar reasons, for example for domestic service, and were able to secure a place for
themselves. Most of these would apparently be able to participate in the project (i.e. manage the
cost sharing).
Local insitiuions. The only local institution is the El Ansar Association, the residents' 'comite
du quartier" of Sidi Harb which is registered under the law of non-profit organizations. It has 15
elected members, and represents different interests of the site population. The committee was
actively involved in the census of households eligible for rehousing, and in the socio economic
survey undertaken by the Annaba local land agency (AFLA) which, however, was primarily
concerned with investigating income levels. The association's support among the residents is
based on the effectiveness and persuasion with which it presents the demand for the
implementation of the housing project to various authorities.
Delays encountered by this project, which the site residents have now been awaiting with eager
anticipation for three years, had weakened support for the committee. The inhabitants are only
too well aware of the success of the project in the neighboring sites of Sidi Harb I and II. The
implementation of the project would greatly strengthen community interest in and support for
local organizationL
Needs andpriorities. The need for and priority of housing was overwhelmingly demonstrated in
many different ways during the later stages of the social assessment, most notably by the
association taking minutes, presenting a petition (Annex 2), and participating in the making of a
videotape.
Impacts. The impacts of the project are expected to be overwhelmingly positive and of many
types. The most immediate socio-economic impacts will be a major increase in assets, detailed
in Section 4 and Table 2 below, together with a propensity, expressed clearly in the socio-
economic study and evident in similar neighboring projects, to invest substantially in firther
home improvement However, four other direct benefits bear on net family incomes (reduction
in costs, and increased revenues:
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page 12



(a)   Clean domestic water supply and effective sanitation and waste disposal is
expected to bring an immediate and sustainable improvement in public health, not
only to the community, but to adjacent areas, and to reduce greatly the risks of
water-borne diseases downstream, a significant point since Sidi Harb is upstream
of a large urban population.
(b)   The provision of permanent housing with electrification will improve the quality
of daily life and in particular the ability of children to learn at home, as well as
eliminating the mortal dangers of unsafe wiring or of collapsing walls.
(c)   The provision of roads, sidewalks and drainage will make the site accessible to
public and private transport.
(d)   In the longer term, there is expected to be a measurable improvement in net
incomes, detailed below in Section 5.
To these net improvements in income stream may be added other benefits:
(e)   There will be a short-term improvement in incomes, as many residents will take
advantage of local part-time or full-time employment in housing construction.
This is discussed below in Section 5.
(f)   There is expected to be a positive impact on the educational achievement of
children.
(g)   There will be improved indices of residential overcrowding (measured by
occupation per residence and occupation per room).
(h)   The most important change in the view of the great majority of the population-
more than incomes-is the enhanced sense of dignity and self worth. This is
conferred primarily through the status of being a full and legal urban resident, and
property owner (thus in a position to leave something of value to be inherited by
children).
(i)   The major environmental impact will be the removal of a major source of
pollution, the slum itself.
Negative impacts: No negative impacts are anticipated by the population concerned. They
consider the project to be entirely beneficial from every point of view and, in the words of the
association, to be a development that will enable them to "resolve 90% of our problems". Their
only concem is the length of time they have had to wait.
Consultation on census results. The local community were involved in the census, and are
aware of its results.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                       Page 13



Review andrevision of census. An additional enumeration will be undertaken ofthe 38 families
living in the forest, who have been added to the project at the request of the World Bank. They
had been omitted from the initial census as living outside Municipal boundaries.
Further census and socioeconomic work required Additional socio-economic work may be
undertaken after the project has begun. Any attempt to undertake additional work before
physical works begin would risk a negative reaction from the population. It would be
appropriate to have, either just before or just after resettlement, a simple but accurate
participatory baseline survey that would measure key indicators of living conditions and
incomes. Such a survey should be repeated after two to three years, and perhaps again after 5 or
6 years, to capture long-term benefits. Later studies could also include retrospective indications
as to whether the sense of individual self-worth and level of community organization has
changed significantly, as well as identifying any possible negative effects such as sections of the
population who have been unable to derive significant advantage from resettlement.
2.2   Resettlement Sites
Site Selection. The site chosen is the site selected by the residents themselves. It lies within on
the western municipal boundary, on rising land overlooking the city and adjacent to a hospital.
Were it not for the presence of the slum, it would be a choice development site. The alternative
would be to scatter and displace the population to other rehousing sites elsewhere in the city.
The inhabitants prefer this site because of the relatively easy access to the city center (2.5 km)
and to their places of work. Ninety two percent of heads of households work in the city.
Individual families can elect to move to "promotional sites" where the lots are larger and a higher
class of housing can be constructed. No evidence was foumd of any demand for this option. The
ambiguous results on this question obtained by the first socio-economic investigation were a
result of the lack of clarity in the way the question was presented.
Site capacity. The plan for the redeveloped site, to house the existing residents, is shown on
Map 3. The site capacity is for 500 housing lots, plus a few commercial lots, promotional lots
and a socio-cultural facility (community hall). 468 families inhabit the site, plus 38 on the
adjacent forest land, making a total of 506 families to be resettled. Of these 506, 32 families (the
first batch) will be resettled in houses already constructed in neighboring Sidi Harb m, leaving a
balance of 474 to be resettled in Sidi Harb IV. Thus, there is an excess housing capacity of at
least 26, which will increase to the extent that some families may be allocated rented social
accommodation (apartments) and some others may elect for promotional or commercial lots.
Site acceptability. The beneficiaries are in full agreement as to the acceptability of the present
site, which has been their home for many years.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                       Page 14



MAP 3: PROPOSED PHASED RESETTLEMENT PLAN FOR SIDI HARB
~~- LoWE A.
(OPERATION TIROIR)                        fobSt, ZONEB
~>  ~  rn   ~        -  ZONFC
\ _
ApproXimate scale (Km)                                   -    Standard
0            0.2          0.4          0.6           0.8          1.0         jhousing (39)
Algeria: Low income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan-                                                  Page 15



Replacement housing. The beneficiaries are in full agreement as to the strategy for housing
replacement. They are aware both of the type of housing, and of the procedure for resettlement,
on the basis of completed projects in Sidi Harb I, I and m. The basic core unit has been
designed by local architects, and the design is well accepted by the new owners, providing
opportunity for horizontal and vertical extension. The 90 m' lot is acceptable to the residents as
adequate to their needs. The attraction of legal ownership is so great, that it is of little interest
whether the plot is 90 mr or 110 mn  As one resident explained during the survey: "if an illiterate
person is offered a university degree, he is not going to start arguing about whether it will be a
first class or a second class degree." The configuration of the developed site follows the general
layout of informal plots and pathways already established by the residents..
Agricultural land use. The site in question is entirely residential, and does not comprise any
land used for agricultural, commercial or other purposes.
Site development mechanisms. The mechanisms for procuring the site have been described
above (section 1.2, Land acquisition and transfer). The site will be developed under the general
direction of the Directorate of Urban Development, who contracts the works ito the Land Agency
of the Wilaya of Annaba. The land agency subcontracts the works to various contactors,
including much of the housing works in small contracts to local contractors. Sites are allotted
by the contror to residents block by block, in consultation with the Residents association and
the municipal representative.
Site development activities. Site development activities include provision of potable water,
electricity, lighting, drainage and sewerage, roads, sidewalks, and a community center.
3.    ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental assessment. An initial environmental checklist was compiled, the acceptability
of the site was confirmed with the local inspectorate of the environment. A subsequent
environmental assessment was undertaken at the request of the World bank. Details are in a
separate report The main environmental issue is the negative impact caused by the slum
settlement itself. Other issues are the unsuitability of the existing slum dwellings to seismic risk
(danger to inhabitants) as well as their vulnerability to flash floods.
Environmental mitigation. Environmental mitigation measures are proposed in a separate
report, and summarized in Annex 4, relating to forest protection, drainage, safety and solid waste
management.
4.    ASSETS
The major current physical assets of beneficiaries have been described above (section 2.2. under
headings "housing" and "possessions".
Resettlement will take place in stages, according to demarcated blocks (see Map 3), into housing
on site ready for occupation. Possessions will be transferred to the new housing through a
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page 16



community effort supplemented by transport assistance and organized by the municipality of
Annaba and the local association. This exercise, for which precedents already exist, would be
accomplished in less than a day for each stage. It would be done on a non-worldng day, and the
entire community. The resettlement day is considered by the residents as a day of celebration,
and strong local traditions of mutual community assistance ensure that the possessions are
quickly, efficiently and safely transferred.
The existing housing, of an average value of DA 15,000 and a maximum replacement value of
25,000 is destroyed, in order to enable the next block of construction. All evidence from the
socio-economic study indicates no interest in salvaging building materials, but rather the
converse, a willingness to see the shameful past symbolically destroyed, As a community
representative described it: "If somebody gave you a new suit to replace your dirty rags, you
would gladly burn your old clothes, which have no value."
The assets obtained by the new residents (on payment of about DA 55,000 for title and an
estimated DA 20,000 for finishing (painting etc.) are estimated at least six times the cost and
outlay, i.e. a house and fully transferable lot worth at least DA 640,000.
5.   INCOME RESTORATION
Esfimation of impacts
There are no negative expected effects on earned incomes, since almost all incomes derive from
employment, which will be unaffected by resettlement since families will remain on site.
It is estimated on the basis of similar projects, that the additional cost of service charges will be
at least partially offset, and perhaps more than offset, by the combined benefits of reduced
household expenditures in certain areas, and additional opportunities for income generation.
It is also estimated that the beneficiaries' contribution to the cost of housing is offset by local
employment generated.
Reduction in expenditures
Reduced household expenditures (or increased consumption in relation to expenditure) may be
expected in at least three areas. However, this expectation is based on informed guesses,
anecdotal evidence and the results of studies elsewhere, and would require verification through a
study of impacts:
(a)   Health expenditures, which are rising rapidly because of increases in the costs of
treatmnent and particularly medication. No survey data is available, but informed
guesses are that a typical family might spend DA 1,000 per person per month (a
little under $20), thus DA 84,000 or $1,450 per year for a family of seven. This
amount should reduce proportionately through improved living conditions in
respect of houses and the immediate environment.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page 17



(b)   Electricity. Many residents already pay for electricity connections illegally
attached to other suppliers; informal inquiries suggest that these rates may be
higher than the official commercial tariff.
(c)   Transport. The area is not served by public or private commercial transport
because of the lack of surfaced roads. Taxi drivers charge more for transport over
bad roads. The completion of the road will enable the area to be served by public
transport services, reducing the costs of transport or time spent traveling.
Income generation opportunities
Possession of a secure, lockable house and a reliable electricity supply enables the owners of the
new houses tD embark on small income generation projects, often making use of consumer
durable items such as refigerators, microwave cookers, and sewing machines to prepare and sell
food, cold drinks or clothes, or to run a small kiosk. This has been observed elsewhere and is
evident in Sidi Harb itself, with some economic activity in the 39 houses which are well
constructed.
This type of income generation is of particular benefit to women.
Local employment generation
Experience in other Annaba projects indicates that manual labor represents about 30 percent of
the cost of constructing houses. On average, a single house generates about 32 person-months of
work. Workers eamn an average of 10,000 to 12,000 per month, normally being paid by the task.
Thus, in a typical project, four workers would work on a house of r8 months, and would earn in
the region of 80,000. This sum is sufficient to cover the shared costs incurred by the
beneficiaries in the acquisition of their plot, thus enabling unemployed heads of household to
participate in the scheme.
Some additional local employment is generated as residents invest in the fmishing and extension
of their new homes. Over the last few years residents have not invested in their present
structures, preferring to make savings against the day when they will be able to invest in legal
construction on their own titled property. The strong presence of many and varied artisanal skills
among Sidi Harb residents makes it highly likely that a proportion of such investment, estimated
at about DA 10 million in the 12 months after project completion (500 families x DA 20,000),
will thus remain within the community.
The presence of a community center and health post and other urban developments will also
generate a few unskilled jobs (caretakers, cleaners, maintenance work).
The project should therefore bring about a measurable and long-term improvement in local
incomes.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Barb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page 18



Adequacy of entitlements.
The table below shows that the entitlements exceed the losses and required payments by a factor
of between six and seven times. This clear gain explains the strong desire of the residents to be
resettled as soon as possible, and the total transformation in their lives which they expect to
result.
Table 2: Net costs and benefits (Algerian Dinars, per family)
|   Losses          Gains
Loss of slum dwelling (full replacement value)            25,000
Land acquisition (20%) at 1,000 per m2                    45,000
Costs of finishing (estimated, average)                   20,000
Value of free core unit house                                            350,000
Market value of serviced plot                                            225,000
Value added, fnishing                                                     20,000
TOTAL                                                      90,000        595,000
Equivalent US $ @ 58, rounded                              $1,550        $10,250
Risks of inpoverishment. There are no direct risks of impoverishment There is a risk that
some families may be unable to meet the cost of ownership. This is mitigated by (i) The long
advance notice that residents have had of the project and its conditions; (ii) the provision that the
elected Municipal Council (Assemblee Populaire Communale, or APC) will take in charge the
matter of support to needy families, and provide supplementary assistance; (iii) the provision for
payment by installments; (iv) the ability of the local community association to raise contributions
for genuinely needy cases, already a local practice, and (v) the fact that failure to pay service
charges is not historically pursued aggressively in the case of genuinely needy families.
6.    PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
Consultation process. The local elected community association is legally recognized, and has
acted for several years as an advocate on behalf of this community, representing to various
authorities their wish that this project be implemented without further delay. During the Bank
preparation mission, the Association of its own volition prepared minutes of a meeting with the
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                     Page 19



Directorate of Urbanism, two other local associations, the president of the APC (Mayor), and
presented them publicly to a mission member at the Sidi Harb site in the presence of a crowd of
over 100 residents, as a means of demonstrating progress toward their objective.
Response of Project Affected Persons. The initial socio-economic survey did not reveal the
strong desire of the inhabitants for this project. As news has spread, and with the advancement
of work in neighboring Sidi Harb I and m, the future beneficiaries are becoming impatient with
delays.
Stakeholder identification. The key stakeholders are the residents themselves. Other
stakeholders in addition to the Directorate of Urban Development in the Ministry of Housing,
which manages this project, are (i) the operator, the local Land Agency, which is currently legal
owner of the site and which has been given the task of preparing the plots and assigning them to
residents; (ii) the elected Municipal Council, which is strongly committed to eradication of slum
areas and to socio-economic improvement of all municipal residents, and which is responsible
for all socio-economic aspects of resettlement The Municipal Council has an additional interest
in cost-effective housing for low-income residents, since the alternative, assisted social housing,
constitutes a drain on its resources, whereas the long term effect of this project will be to
generate revenue and demand for paid municipal service.
Information dissenination. The community association attends relevant meetings with the
municipal council and Directorate of Urban Development, and information is spread by word of
mouth. The procedures for this type of resettlement operation are well known as a result of
similar schemes in immediately adjacent areas and elsewhere in the city.
7.   IMPLEMENTATION
7.1 Institutions
Identification and responsibility. The overall responsibility for delivery of benefits rests with
the Directorate of Urban Development of the District (Wilaya) of Annaba. Through contractual
relations, and through the project implementation unit, these tasks are devolved to (a) the Local
Land Agency (AFL, Agence Fonciere Locale) for construction of housing and delivery of title;
(b) the Municipal Council (APC, Assemblie Populaire Communale) for the actal process of
resettlement and all matters of socio-economic welfare; and (c) the local community association,
which has legal status and is repsobsible for all matters relating to the mobilization of the
community, and the presentation of problems and complaints to the appropriate authorities (AFL,
APC and DU).
The day to day rnanagement of the project is the responsibility of the technical assistance
committee and monitiring unit in the Directorate of Urban Development (La direction
d'urbanisme, D[J9.
The APC's Commission of Housing Allocation is responsible for maintaining the lists of all
eligible persons and for allocation of housing units. It verifies rights to entitlement of individual
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                        Page 20



heads of families, and deals with appeals, presenting to the full (elected) assembly for approval
the lists of allocations and beneficiaries.
These authoritative lists are then passed to the operator (AFL) who is responsible for finalizing
the acquisition of the plot by the beneficiary, and receiving the beneficiaries' contributions. The
operator directs the beneficiary to a notary public who, on payment of an extremely modest fee,
establishes the act of property (title) according to the law. At this point the beneficiary is in
possession of full and transferable title to the plot.
The technical assistance committee also assists the beneficiary in all aspects of the future
development of the plot. It assists the beneficiary to obtain a construction permit, provides him
or her with a typical plan of construction showing the future stages of evolution of the core unit
(horizontal and vertical extension to one additional story (R+l); together with providing
technical building specifications, and free technical advice.
Coordinaton. Coordination is assured by a technical assistance unit to be set up within the
directorate of Urbanism for a duration of five years. Coordination among the various parties is
already assured on the basis of previous successful implementation of similar projects.
Capacity. The Directorate of Urbanism of Annaba has implemented one of the country's most
ambitious slum upgrading programs. Details of the capacity of this and the operator (AFL) are
given in Annex 1, pp 4-5.
Training and development. There is no formal or systematic training plan for resettlement
issues. In the context of the Bank project, the development of a manual of procedure is
envisioned, together with sharing experience between different sub-projects to improve aspects
such as socio-economic survey and in evaluation of project impacts.
7.2   Implementation Schedule
Chronology. The chronology and steps are shown in annex I, Section 4, which includes a Gantt
chart.
Resettlement takes place in stages. In order to ensure the best possible reinstallation of the
citizens resident in Sidi Harb IV, and to enable an "operation tiroir", it is essential that the
operation be carefully phased. The entire site has been divided according to the morphology of
the site and existing settlement pattems into 6 zones, labeled A through F (see Map 3). The
phasing of the operation is as foIlows.
The project is divided into 6 operational phases by zone, although the timing of the middle or
later phases may overlap or be undertaken concurrently, in order to complete the project in a
timely manner. (1) On completion of the houses in Sidi Harb III under a preceding operation,
and at the start of the project, 32 families will move from Zone A with the assistance of the
Municipality and members of the community, a process completed in less than a day. The
structures in Zone A will be demolished, the area divided into 64 lots on which 64 core units will
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                         Page 21



be constructed. This first phase is estimated to take 6 months. (2) When the 64 Zone A core units
are ready for occupation, the occupants of 45 shacks in Zone B will move into Zone A core units
by the same process, leaving a balance of 19 core units in Zone A available for allocation to
some families from Zone C. A further 79 core units will be constructed in Zone B. There is now
a total of 98 core units available (1 9A + 79B). (3) 86 households will move from Zone C into
Zones A and B, leaving a balance of 12 core units available for families from Zone D. A further
147 core units will be constructed in Zone C. Thus there is now a total of 159 core units available
at the end of Phase 3. (4) 78 households wil move from Zone D into core urits constructed in
Zones B and C, leaving a balance of 81 available units in C, and enabling the construction of a
farther 100 core units in D, a total of 181 available units. This operation continues until all
residents are rehoused.
It is emphasized that this is a flexible plan, not a rigid one. The actual numbers of houses to
constructed in any one phase, or the numbers of people to be moved, may be varied during the
operation for practical reasons.
Relation to civil works. Inhabitants are only resettled into the housing once it is complete and fit
for occupation. the operation of civil works proceeds as areas are freed by each batch of
residents who are resettled.
8.    BUDGET AND COSTS
Authority. The National Housing fund (CNL) is responsible for 70% of the project cost and for
ensuring the proper keeping of accounts. The developer (AFL) is responsible for 30 percent of
the project cost, which is recovered from the beneficiaries as indicated. The project takes place
under the authority of the Director of Urban Development of the Wilaya of Annaba. Table 4.5.2
in Annex I shows the allocation of responsibilities according to expenditure
Source offunds. The budget is reproduced in Annex 1 Table 4.5. The source of funds is 70%
from the National Housing Assistance Fund FONAL, and 30% from a variety of other sources,
including beneficiary contributions, contributions from the Municipality of Annaba, and sale of
preventive lots.
Identfifcation of resettlement costs Apart from the costs of construction of housing and
provision of services, which constitute the cost of the project, the additional costs of the actual
movement of people into their new housing are not included in the project cost, as these are
minor and undertaken as part of the operation. The actual resettlement is a very brief affair,
taking between half a day to one day for each phase depending on the complexity of that
particular phase, since it is a matter or relocation on site. The municipality provides transport
services as required out of its normal budget, and the entire community helps with the move of a
particular block.
Inflation adjustments andprice contingencies. Provision is made in the budget for cost
adjustment for price contingencies and inflation (Table 4.5, Annex 1).
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page 22



9.    RISKS
The greatest risk in the project would be delay in implementation and fiuther socio-economic
investigation, since the beneficiaries consider themselves already well researched.
There is a risk that beneficiaries will not pay for their title, which is done after they move, and
that the operator will find it difficult to recover full costs. This risk is minimized by (i) the
possibility that a construction permit for house extension by the beneficiary may be withheld
until payment of title; (ii) the active participation of the community association. In the case of
Sidi Harb; and (iii) the ability and willingness of the Municipality through its social safety net to
assist genuine cases of hardship.
10. GRIEVANCE REDRESS
Grievance process. Every effort is made to solve differences amicably through a consultative
process, and the involvement of the community association. However grievances may be
formally expressed. Two types of grievances can be identified:
(a)   Grievances arising from non-inclusion in the census and to entitlement for
accommodation. These are addressed directly and in writing to the APC
(Municipal assembly) and are dealt with by the allocation commission, who are
obliged by law to give a response within 10 days of receipt of the complaint
(b)   Grievances concerning technical, juridical or social aspects of the resettlement
process. In this case the complainants address themselves to the operator (AFL)
who deals with them in the context of the management committee. These may
also be dealt with in writing, and must be dealt with within 15 days of receipt.
Appeals. Appeals of the first type follow mechanisms formally prescribed by the Commission of
Attribution of the APC. Appeals of the second type can be taken to the next level of
administration above the operator. Should none of these satisfy, appeal may be made to the local
judicial authorities or to the ombudsman, who is represented in every district, according to
procedures established by national law.
11. MONITORING AND REPORTING
Internal process. There will a regular process of monitoring through weekly meetings of the
project management committee, but the process and content of outcomes monitoring will be
more fully developed in the course of the project and will be described fully in the manual of
procedure.
In addition to standard measures of project monitoring (financial and input indicators, and
implementation indicators, including monitoring of costs, the following socio-economic
indicators will be measured by the project with the assistance of the neighborhood association:
Outputs: Delivery of houses and titles to beneficiaries.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                      Page 23



Outcomes: incomes:
Extent of investment in own construction
Ownership of consumer durables (refrigerators, stoves, etc.)
Level of scholastic achievement.
Algeria Low Income Housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan                                          Page 24



(iA



Annex 1. SIDI HARB PROJECT TECHNICAL INFORMATION
WILAA YA    ANNABA
Commune   .ANNABA
Project     :Residential
Subdivision
SIDI HARB IV
I - URBAN CONTEXT OF PROJECT
This section provides a brief overview of the principal characteristics of the urban context of the project
and its relation to project implementation.
The following salient facts provide an indication:
1-1 Indicators of urban development    Population            : 279182 inhabitants
Growth                : 225000 in 1977
288385 in 1987
1-2 Proportion of sub-standard housing: municipality of Annaba
a. Overall
Housing stock   Good      Permanent,     Slum      No. of inhabitants  Percentage
_  condition    but aging    dwellings   per home      substandard
46009       314244        5293        2292           6,07            16,49
b. Sidi Harb IV
1-2-1 Number of constructed parcels (number of structures)  : 456
1-2-2 Type of structure ( %)                        -Permanent .... 8,19%
-Shacks and temporary dwellings
..91,8%
-Other: 0%
1-2-3 Areas of occupied plots                       -Minimum ...... 21 rn2
- Maximum ...... 180 D?
-Average . .. 80 mn2
1-24 Number of residences :456
1-2-5 Number of structures not occupied: Nil
1-2-6 Number of households :468                     (see text)
1-2-7 Number of inhabitants at time of enumeration :3830
1-2-8 Number currently employed :441
1-2-9 Summary of living and health conditions
- Open discharge of waste water
- No green spaces or children's playgrounds: the entire site comprises illegal constructions
- Shacks have insufficient interior space and no sewerage connections
- Water shortage has a serious negative impact on community health.
1-3 Pror slum upgrading (r6sorption de I'habItatprecaire) undertaken: Annaba Municipality



SITE                  LOTS (Number)            Houses constructed
(number)
1- Sidi Harb I                         84                         54
2- Sidi Hart II                       259                         91
3- Sidi Harbtll                       100                         10
4- Seybouse                            84                         84
Total                                 527                        239
Other similar upgrading projects have been undertaken in the greater Annaba urban agglomeration.
1-3-1 Instiutional arrangements
ACTORS                      ACTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1/ Direction de l'Urbanisme             1/ Master of works
2/ Agence Fonciere Locale               2/1Land tenure, Studies, monitoring: delegated
Master of Works
3/ Annaba Municipality                  3/ Management of assistance in construction:
social and community affairs.
41 CNL                                  4/ Finance
1-4 Whether there is an Urban Master Plan (PDAU) and Land Use Plan(POS) : An inter-
municipality Urban Master Plan has been prepared and is awaiting final approval.
2 - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
[This section provides the nature and objectives of the project with its all components, so as to clarify the
outcomes.]
The description of the project is as follows:
2-1 Physical characteristfcs:
2-1-1 Location: The site to improve is an integral part of the westem part of Annaba and falls
within city limits. See maps 1 (general location) and 2 (detailed site plan)
2-1-2 Surface area (in Ha) : 11,76 Ha
2-1-3 Settlement of adjacent sites:
North: Chaaba and the subdivisions Sidi Harb I and IlIl
East: Psychiatric hospital: ERRAZI
South: Private property
West: Forest
2-1-4 Topography of the site and constraints to its settlement: Sloping ground, with slopes of
2% to 40%.
2-1-5 Soils and constraints to settlement. Schist. No constraints. The site is already occupied
by the project beneficiaries. There are no physical constraints to development as a permanent
residential site.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information           Page 2



2-2 Project description and objectives:
The purpose is to rehouse families from their existing shacks in core housing units to be
constructed on site in the course of the project, with the exception of 39 present structures which
will be retained and whose occupants will benefit from site servicing.
The project objective is to improve the living conditions of household members living on the site,
through providing them with serviced lots including core housing units.
2-3 Project components: The table below presents a summary of the elements of the project
Surface      Plots        Total surface area      No. of
area                              _            housing
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT           (in2)      Number        (n9)   I                units*
1 - Restructuring (Site servicing)
-Built plots                   1255        139         19945       18.45        139       _
-Vacant plots                                          llll
2- Land tiling and subdivision
I-Plots for social rehousing    117,5       500         58750        50
-Social plots (slum prevention)  143        34          4862         4,13
-Individual plots                                      .._                  __         _
-Collective plots                                         _
3. Construction
J-Core units                     45          500         22500                    500
. -Completed units
-Collective housing (Social
services: OPGI)
|___ -             Total Habitat                                                 1 539
4. - Public and Community Use
-Economic activities           1250         6            1500        1,27
-General ad-ministration       2242,5       1            2242,5      1,9         _____
-Education                      2242,5      1            2242,5      1,9               _
-Heafth
-Sport and other
FTotal Public Use                           18             5985      15,07
Roads, rights of way and open spaces                    138098      132,38
Grand total of project                      1            1117640    1       100%1
() Number of residentiai units after demarcation and restructuring of existing structures plus those constructed under the project.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information                Page 3



2-4 Nature of works:
2-4-1 On-Site development:
a- Sewerage: There is a dual sewerage system. Waste water will be linked to the existing line along road
CW22, while rain water is collected in the existing lined canal which cuts through the center of the lot.
b- Roads. The road network consists of main roads along the principal axes of the site, and pedestrian
walkways in the interior.
c- Domestic water supply. The water supply network is available, and connections are to be provided to
4 existing reservoirs each of 5000 m3.
d- Electrification: Electricity supply to the project area will be ensured by two transformer units to be
installed in the context of the project SONELGAZ, the supplier, will install and put into operation the
connections for public lighting. [Domestic supply will be to meter box at each house]
2-4-2 Construction workss:
Works to be undertaken comprise the construction of 500 core units.
3- INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
This section pnrvides an overview of project management and the capacities of the operator to undertake
and manage the project
3-1 InstitutionalArrangements:
ACTORS                      ACTIONS AND RESPONSIBILMES
1/ Direction de l'Urbanisme            1/ Master of works
2/ Agence Fonciere Locale              2/ Land tenure, Studies, monitoring: delegated
Master of Works
31 Annaba Municipality                 3/ Management of assistance in construction:
social and community afFairs.
4/ CNL                                 4/ Finance
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information          Page 4



3-2 Personnel and equipment (Agence Fonciere Locale):
3-2-1 Personnel
3-2-1-a Higherprofessional: 5
-Administrator: 1
-Commercial Manager (DES): I
-Financial Manager: (DES): 1
-National Engineer I
-Urban Architect 1
3-2-1-b Middle professlonat 23
-Lawyer: 01
-Accountants (DES) : 2
-Engineers :4
-Architects: 5
-Topographical Engineer: 1
-Higher Technician: 9
-Statistical Planner: I
3-2-1-c Supervisory: 16
-Administrative :12
-Technical :04
3-2-1-d Implementing staff: 13
-Administrative: 13
3-2-1-e Technical staff .30 (architects, engineers, technicians and implementing staff)
3-2-2 Equipment
3-2-24a Computer equipment:
micro computers,
printers and peripherals: 11
3-2-2-b: Vehicular:
-light vehicles: 8
3-2-2-c: Surveying equipment: sufficient for two teams
3-3 Financial:
Volume of operational activities (tumover)
-1995 :161,131,335 DA (Complete)
- 1996 :146,081,314 DA (Complete)
- 1997 : 370.000.000 DA (Forecast)
Source of financing:
The agency derives its revenue principally from the sale of land, and a small
percentage of various services provided to third parties.
Income:
- 1995: 129.828.018,00 DA
- 1996: 132.899.323,55 DA
- 1997: 66.275.020,35 DA (January to May 1997)
3-4 Experience in similar operations:
Roads, water and sewerage works whose financing and monitoring was undertaken by the agency:
Works completed:
- Serviced Subdivisions : 7        Total cost of works: 276,391176 DA
Works in progress:
- Serviced subdivisions: 11       Total cost of works: 138,335,727 DA
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information         Page 5



4- TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASPE:TS
This section provides an analytical overview of the financial aspects of all works to be undertaken.
4-1 Cost of works: (see table below)
4-2 Duration of works :30 Months (in semesters)
I Sem I   Sem 2   Sem 3   Sem 4   Sem 5   Sem 6   Q. 7 &+
-Land acquisition                                                           ___.,
-Completion of studies
-Sewerage
-Roads
-Domestic water supply
-Electricity installations
-Housing construction
-Other
-Resefflement,                      m        _       _
Beneficiaries py, access
titles
4-3 Expenditures (Million DA)
Component  Restructuring           Land          - Construction     Total
Development_ _
Expenditure head            Cost    Total    Cost 1 Total    Cost    Total        Total
per ha            per ha  _         per ha |
A-Land (Real Estate)
Land acquisition                           11,02         1   1                 | 11,9
B-On sfte w*orks
-Studies and monitoring   _                 0,14     1,66     _1,66
_-Roads            __    _                  2,94      34,57                     34,57
-ewerage                                    2        23,52                      23-52
- Drinking water supply                     1,10     12,94            _          12,94
u   lighting                                1,2      14,11                       14,11
-Electrification                   _0,35             4,12                       4,12
-Other (including physical                            17,84                      17,84
and price contingencies)     -
C-Const2ructon
-Studies and monitoring               -0,28    13,34    13,34_                             1
-Major works                                                 10,007   1150      1150
-Secondary and other                  __                       0,003   165      165
o-ff-sle wor*s
-Studies and monitoring
-Sewerage             .   r                 _ I               III
I -Drinking water supply   _                 __I_     I_I
-Other                     _        _1_-                                 -
E-Management
-Operator's charges                          0,32     3,75 -   0,34     4,05     7,80
-Taxes (VAT at 14%)                            0,045_ 10,54    10,05    10,5;8    11,12 
-Other levies (TAIC: 2,5%)  1  _            1 0,009    0,10    0,009    0,10     0,20
Grand Total                    _9,12 _125,14   0,68                     223,07  |348,21
) Land management, including that relating to slum ciearance through resettling slum dwellers on site (Op6ration tiroir)
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information            Page 6



4-4 Land sales and provisional receipts:
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT    Surface                Plots         Total surface area     Incomes (million
area                                                    DA)
(m2)       Number         (M2)           %            forecast
I - Restructuring (Site servicing)
-Buit plots                       1255          139           94550                       .7l
-Vacant plots                      _            ____T_1_1
2 - Land titling and subdivision
-Plots for social rehousing        117,5        500           58750        500           29,37
-Social plots (slum prevention)    143          34            4862         1000          4,86
-Individual plots
-Collective plots
3 - Consftrcon (plot pius core unit house)
-Core units                        45           500           22500        2888         65
-Completed units                                      _                  _
-Collective housing (Social
services: OPGI)    Tota_Haita
_ Total Habitat __ _ _ _       __ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _
4 - Public and Community Use
-Economic activities               250          6             1500         1800          2,7
-General administration            2242,5       1             2242,5       0             0
-Education                         2242,5       1             2242,5       0             0
-Health                                                            .
-Sport and  other                  _  _ _  _ _ j  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _    _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _
Total Publicl Use
GRAND TOTAL                                              -              1106,9
(Number of residenbal units after demarcation and restructuring of existing structures plus those constructed under the project.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information                        Page 7



4-5 Breakdown of expenditures by type of Intervention
4.5.1 - Allocation of responsibilities:
Organization                  DUH |         O |   Corn- |Population |Ass   D.cwater | SONEL Other
item z ionresponsible or participating D UICH   pe-CNL   Im           o
Item _            _                        ator I    I mune            clations    !   , -GAZ
Land acquisition                          R           P
Site studies and surveys                              R                P
Complete household enumeration     P                  R     P          P
Socio-economic Study               P      R                            P                     P
Environmental Impact Assessment   R
Evaluation report                  R      P      P
Topographic survey                        R
On site technical studies          P      R
Off-site technical studies
On site sewerage works             P      R      P
On site roads works                P      R      P
Water supply on site               P      R      P
Electricity supply on site         P      R      P                                    R
Off site sewerage works
Off site roads works                                  R
Off site water supply                                 P
Off site electricity supply
Housing construction               P      R      P    P                P
Demolition                                            R     P          P
Fixing of sale price of land       P      R
Public awareness and participation    P   R           R                P
Cost recovery                             R      P          P           .
Environmental protection           P                  R     P          P
Settlement of disputes                             _     ____
R: Responsible                      P: Participation
(^) Justice, Wilaya et Ministry of Housing
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information             Page 8



4.5.2-Distribution of costs: (million DA)
Organization responsible or participating |UCH  Operator  CNL   Commune  Population Associations  D. water  SONEL  Olher
Land acquisition                                           11.99                                                           _ l
Site studies and surveys
Complete household enumeration          0.15
Soca-economic Study
Environmental Impact Assessment                                                                           .                _
Evaluation report
Topographic survey                      5
On site technical studies
Off-site technical studies                                                                                       _
On site sewerage works
On site roads works                               23.52
Water supply on site                              34.57                     22.37
Electricity supply on site                        12.94
Off site sewerage works                           18.23
Off site roads works                     _         __      _
Off site water supply
Off site electricity supply
Housing construction
Demolition                          _                                                              .__
Fixing of sale price of land                      150
Public awareness and participation                                      65
Cost recovery                                              15.06                                                            _
Environmental protection                7.8
Settlement of disputes                   1.12
0.20          .                                                                    _
Sidi llarb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information           Page 9



45 Overall financial Analysis:
Budget heads             Expend.          Year 1                 Year 2               Year 3
(million DA)             totals    Ti   T2   T3   T4   Ti   T2   T3   Ti   TI    T2T I1T
Land acquisition and charges   1 1.99      2.39  9.6             
Studies and inspections          5   _       .    I
Public services on-site          69.26           -      4   493   8   9.85  15  16.24  12   19.24 _  _
Housing construction             215                   23    20   30  43.1  4i   32.1   13   12.8 _
Public services off-site             I
Price contingencies (Studies    8.92                  0.45  1.78  2.01 1.02   1    2    0.66         
and works)
Cost revision (inflation: studies  8.92               0.45  1.78  2.01 -T02   1    2    0.66         
and works)II
Management costs(interv. and  9.12                    0.05  0.82   1    2   1.1  2.73  1.42   _         
other)                                                  -
rOTAL  348.21    3.39  13.6 27.95 29.31 43.0 56.9 59.1  55.07  27.7  32.04 _
_      ___        2    9                 4       -       -
INCOME                               Year I    -             Year 2    -           Year 3
(millionDA)             Total  Ti   T2   T3    T4   T1   T2   T3   T4   Ti   T2  T3   T4
Beneficiaries C. Infrastructure   22,37 -            2    2,47    3   3,71   3   3,71  2,48   2
Beneficiaries comp*** housing   65             -     6      7    10   9,5  9.5   10    8    5
Sale of preventive lots and      7,56               0,51    1   1,26   1   1,26   1   0,51  1,02
other                                  I           I        _
Municipality                     11,99  239  9,6                       - 
CNUFONAL. infrastructure         91,29               6    6.78    9   7.43 16.0  16.8  21,9  7,32  -    -
CNUFONAL. Housing                150                 14    16   21   30   30   21   10    8
Other                              I          -   -  -                 
TOTALINCOME  348,21  2,39  9,6  28,51  33,25 44   51,6  59,8  52,5  42,8  23,3
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information                        Page 10



5 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROJECT:
5.1- NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
5.1.1 - CHARACTERISTICS:
Al TOPOGRAPHY: Heterogeneous natural relief, slopes varying from 2% to 40%
B/ GEOLOGY: schist
C/ CLIMATOLOGY: Meditenanean climate with a mean rainfall of 600 mm
DI HYDROLOGY: 12 catchments with a total surface area of 6.98 Ha and a total flow of
990.76 I/s
E IHYDROGEOLOGY: Water-bearing stratum table to the north-west of the site.
F/BIOLOGY: The westem border of the site adjoins a forest of approximatelyf2 ha) of Eucalyptus
and shrubs.
5.1.2 Riss: YestVa/Possible.
Are there risks of:
Soil erosion on or near the site?                  Yes.
Rainwater collection and drainage facilities are provided as an integral part of the project
For possible soil erosion through deterioration of the adjacent forest cover, without project. See below..
Landslides?                                         No
Expanding soils ?                                   No
Flooding                                             Yes
Flash floods may occur through heavy stormns. Local rainwater control measures are an integral part of
the project, including the cleaning and relining of canal.
Seismic events?                                      Possible
Moderate seismic risk zone, class If, The present population is at potential risk through occupation of
houses lacking proper foundations, and not conforming to building codes. The project will provide the
entire population with safe housing confonning to building codes.
Otherphysical risks?                                 Yes
The site contains numerous man-made hazards especially for children, including unsafe bridges across
the drainage canal, illicit electrical wiring, building materials liable to be detached by high winds and the
absence of safe areas to play. The project will correct these dangers.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information        Page 11



5.1.3 Natural environment
Is there a forest cover near the project site?     Yes
Greater risks to the forest cover above the site, to the west, exist without the project, since spontaneous
settlement of the forest (38 shacks were enumerated) has already started. At present, the motivation of
the local population to discourage settlement in the forest is diminishing owing to delays in implementation.
The project will rehouse the 38 families on site, and the population will be motivated to discourage further
illegal settlement. The project will also take further measures to mitgate dangers of loss of forest cover,
detailed in the table of mitigation measures..
Is there a natural reserve or park near the site?   No
Is there a beach or coastline near the site         No
5.2- HUMAN AND CULTURAL ENVIRONMENT
Is there any cultural site near the project?               No
Is there any religious site (mosque, mausoleum etc.) near the project?         No
Is there any cultural site near the project?               No
Is there an archaeological site near the project?          No
Is there any site of tourist interest near the project?    Yes
The Edough hills are a possible future tourist attraction, as yet undeveloped.
Does an electricity transmission line cross the site?      No
ElectricitY suppiy will be to the site.:
Is there any other public structure on or near the site?   Yes
There is a psychiatric hospital adjoining the site.
5.3- HEALTH AND HYGIENE CONDITIONS IN THE COMMUNITY
- What system of garbage collection Is used?
Comment: The absence of roads renders access by municipal collection services difficult. People place
their garbage on uncontrolled dumps here and there, or throw things into the canal. The project will
provide proper garbage disposal facilities, and enable access by municipal services. See Table of
environmental mitigation measures.
- Is there a public garbage dump near the site?            No
- Is waste water discharged openly?                         Yes
There is no waste water system inside the site. Waste water flows into the rainwater canal that cuts
through the site.
- How is the communty serviced by roads?
There are no roads connecting the site to main roads, but there are other roads in the proximity.
Sidi Harb IV Reseti1ement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information        Page 12



- Are there green spaces orpublic areas in the quarter?
The site is entirely filled with illegal constructions, although there are some bare open spaces by the canal.
- What are the general conditions of hygiene in the quarter?
Lamentable, given lack of internal space in houses, lack of water and sewerage, and open garbage
disposal. People keep the interiors of their houses in good sanitary condition.
5.4- POLLUTION AND NUISANCES
- What are the nuisances created by the population of the quarter?
The quarter itseff is a major source of pollution, incurring health risks both to the community itself and to
neighboring quarters. These have been detailed above.
- Are there polluting industries or activities in or nearby the site?
No. The site is not subject to environmental pollution. See text and annexed statement from Inspector of
Environment
- During the last 5 years, have there been epidemics, outbreaks or high incidence of the following
diseases?
Cholera No
Typhoid No
Bilharzia No
Other  No
6 - SOCIO ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT
(Study undertaken by AFL)
LOCATION                                            SIDI HARB IV
Municipality (Commune) of ANNABA, Sub-district (daira) of ANNABA, District
(wilaya) of Annaba
Am
11.76 Ha, being the property of the Municipality of Annaba
Characteristics of occupied (built) plots:
The site is occupied by single story structures at a density of 40 per hectare,
primarily for residential use.
Household incomes:
Mean monthly revenue of the head of household 8,500 DA
Sidi Harb IV Resenlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information          Page 13



Financing by households of future constructiLn after proiect completion:
16% would use their own savings
38% would need a loan
46% had no opinion
esetlement:
42% would keep their present building
40% no opinion
4% would make minor modifications
4% would extend the existing structure, but have no means to do so
1% would like to extend the existing structure
1% would like to tear it down and replace it with a new structure.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 1: Project Technical Information        Page 14



Annes 2: Letter written by the president, El Ansar Association of Sidi Harb
Summary translation from Arabic
16 Feb 1998,
The Director of Urbanisation,
Annaba District.
Delays in the start of the works of construction, core housing neighborhood.
Sir,
Given that the housing problem is the greatest problem of the inhabitants of the
neighborhood, whose number has risen to 468 families, and given that our neighborhood
is deprived of the most basic conditions of hygienic and secure living; and given also that
the problem of access to housing, the construction of this neighborhood, will allow our
population to resolve 90% of the problems of our population which they suffer now and
which get worse day by day: in this context, the association of the neighborhood, together
with the local authorities, in the aim of ensuring the success of the project, and given that
it was started in 1994 and that it was frozen in 1995 for an indefinite period of time, and
that it was taken up again in January 1996 following a site visit by the governor of
Annaba district in the company of local authorities, and that this project was destined for
World Bank financing after the visit of the mission of the Bank to the Distrct of Annaba
in February of the same year, since which time the association has been in constant
relations of marathon dimensions with the local authorities with the object of reaching a
common understanding and removing the difficulties, with the aim of realizing this
project in the best conditions and shortest possible time, on each occasion the local
authorities have insisted that the Sidi Harb was a pilot project and that it would therefore
benefit in this status from their favorable attention, and that they would firmly undertake
to remove the obstacles of its application at a national level.
In its last meeting with the Mayor, the Director of Urban Planning and the Director of the
Land Agency at the beginning of April 1997, the inhabitants of the neighborhood were
informed that the neighborhood was going to benefit from a rehousing project of 500 core
units, and that all the technical studies had been completed, and that work would start
within a very short period of time, not more than the beginning of June 1997, for the good
reason that the Minister of Housing had provided an amount of money to finance the
project and begin work, while awaiting the receipt of financing to be agreed by the World
Bank. He further agreed on the means of implementation and the modalities of benefits
of housing assistance according to a timetable. He determined that the first group of
beneficiaries would be identified from among a group of the population of the site, to
whom would be given some of the houses constructed on the neighboring site of Sidi
Harb m, namely 92 houses, in the place of the slum dwellings to be vacated by the
beneficiary families. Two hundred core units would be constructed and so on until the
entire population of the site had been covered, and this way is the only practical way to
Algeria Low Income housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 2                           Page 1



complete the project, given that the houses of Sidi Harb III were in the fial phase of
completion.
Days and months have gone by, and the neighborhood's project has not seen the light of
day. Therefore, we are doubting as to whether this project is of a real or an illusory
character, and we are in need of a sincere and responsible reply. This would enable more
than 2,000 people to recover their hope and to overcome the bitterness which assails them
because of the excessive prolongation of waiting time, because of the weight of
constraints and because of the great number of unfulfilled promises, in addition to the
deplorable social situation in which all the inhabitants are living. In this context we hope
for your help, so as to realize this project and begin work.
We request you also to find other sources of finance as was the case for the other
rehousing sites existing in the district, which have benefited in the past and which even
now are benefitLng from core unit housing projects. Given that our neighborhood is in a
worse situation than the others in relation to the seriousness of daily living problems
experienced by the people, it was evident that it should have been one of the first to
benefit from this kind of project, inasmuch as all the local and even central government
officials are aware of this, following the many visits they have made to our neighborhood,
which lets them understand reality of the conditions of difficult life in which we live. We
approach you, the local authority, confident in your sense ofjustice, and in the aim of
seeking your assistance to remove the constraints which bear down on us, finding
solutions adequate to the resolution of our problems according the resources available to
you.
In the hope of that, please accept, Sir, our respect and consideration.
Algeria Low Income housing Project
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 2                             Page 2



ANNEX 3: SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHECK-LIST
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY AND FACILITIES
Check the exact answers below and provide explanations as appropriate
Are there any activities such as shops, stores, artisanal activities or other economic activities
in the slum area to be upgraded, or the quarter that will be restructured?  No.
Are there in particular on the site any formal or informal artisanal activities that would
constitute a nuisance to the population or pollute the environment (noise, production of
dangerous goods, emission of noxious gases, etc .........):                No
Are there on the project site or nearby any socio-cultural facilities such as primary school,
health post etc. )?                                                 Yes
If yes, provide details by type of facility, distance in relation to the site, access etc.
Psychiatric hospital, tax collection point.
Most school going children attend a nearby primary school, walking part of the distance on
unpaved roads. The population lacks easy access to any other facilities. Additional community
facilities will be provided under the project.



2- UTILITY AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS  |
How far is the site from the nearest main urban infrastructural services and facilities ?
* Roads: (distance, comment) The access road will be extendedfrom the adjacent site of
Sidi ilarb III, which connects to the main urban network
* Sewerage, waste water: (distance et comments). 240 linear meters to the discharge point,
servicing Sidi Harb LII. There is a (separate) system for sewerage and rainwater.
* Drainage, rainwater: ( distance and comments). A concrete-lined canal runs through the
site, dischargingrainwaterfromabovethesiteandthesiteitself,into *****. Presently
domestic waste water and sewerage is discharged through open channels into the canal,
which is also used for the disposal of some solid waste.
* Drinking water. There are four x 5000 Ma reservoirs at a distance of 71 0 meters.
* Electricity and public lighting: The site is currently served largely by informal and illegal
connections made by the localpopulation, either directly to the supply line or as an illegal
extension from another legal domestic connection. Most users currently pay for
consumption, at an informal tariff that is higher than the formal tarif Legal official
connections require that buildingsfirst conform to building codes, for reasons of safety.
Present practices constitute a major hazard to the population, and especially to children
In 199:7 a child was accidentally electrocuted Safe installations are one of the priorities
of the residents.
Other comments.: There is a widespread desire for municipal services, to which all residents
will be entitled once the site is upgraded to full urban status.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 3: Socio-economic Check list           Page 2



RESETTLEMENT
This section of the questionnaire should be completed whenever there is to be a displacement or
resettlement of any or all of the families affected by the slum clearance or upgrading project.
population, or of any portion of it Resettlement or displacement is to be understood as any
movement of people from the plot that they actually occupy, whether this is the result of a slum
redevelopment, upgrading, or clearance project (la resorption d'une bidonville, operation tiroir
etc.). This applies whether the population is to be resettled on the same site, or elsewhere.
Is there to be any displacement of families or households in the course of project execution?
Yes, all of the families will be moved into individual core housing units to be constructed under
the project.
If yes, what are the reasons (characteristics of the site, land problems, provision of
infrastructure) which have led the master of works to envisage a displacement of the
population?
The strongly expressed desire of the population themselves to benefitfrom legal ownership and
occupation, to become legal owners of their own homes, and entitled to the full range of
municipal services, is a primary reason. The great majority of the population wish to remain on
site, but express strong dissatisfaction with their present living conditions. This development is
proposed within the context of the urban master plan for the city ofAnnaba, and the land use
plan, and within the context of the current nationalprogram to provide housingfor low income
families. Land tenure will be regularizedfor allpersons affected by the project. The project will
increase the capacity of the site to house population by permitting occupants to extend their
homes horizontally (addition of rooms) and vertically (construction of second story: R+ 1), and
enable provision of the full range of municipal services: roads, domestic electrification, domestic
drinking water supply, drainage, sewerage, street lighting, and communityfacilities.
If yes, what is the nature of the resettlement resulting from the project?
After a census, 39 houses in the south that conforming to building code will be left alone,
benefiting onlyfrom service connections to be undertaken under the project. A small minority of
families (32 households) will move to neighboring Sidi Harb III, a distance of some 100 meters,
while the remainder (340 households) will move into core housing units to be built in a zone on
the site adjacent to the plots they presently occupy. This resettlement (operation tiroir) wil be
done in phases described in the resettlement proposal. In addition, at the request of the World
Bank and as a measure of environmentalprotection, .38 households currently occupying
structures illegally constructed in the adjacentforest will be moved into houses on the site, the
structures they erected will be destroyed, andfurther construction in the forest will be prevented.
These 38 families were not included in the original census, and are currently outside municipal
boundaries.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 3: Socio-economic Check list         Page 3



How many people and families will be moved in relation to the project implementation
plan? 468 families, 3830 individuals according to the census ofApril 1997. In addition 38
families in the forest, were not enumerated in the census, since they are located in the forest just
outside the city boundary. The estimated number is 310, at an estimated 8.1 persons perfamily.
How many structures would be demolished under the project? 456 on the site itself and 38
in the adjacent forest.
How many heads of household are regularly employed within the site?
None are employed within the site itself, which is exclusively residential. From the sample socio-
economic survey, 92 percent of heads of household have regular employment in the city, and
settled on the site by preference because of lack of suitable alternatives, and because of the
relative acces.sibility of this site to the city center (2.5 kn). This explains their preference to
remain on the site, ifpossible, especially in view of the improved access to public and private
transport that would resultfrom the project.
Have the families been informed about their rehousing or resettlement envisaged in the
operational project plan? If so, what has been their reaction?
Yes. The popu,lation has been regularly informed about the project and its status. They are eager
to see its implementation, and have made representations requesting its most urgent
implementatiorn
Is there provision for compensation for the families to be resettled?
Yes. Allfamilies will benefitfrom entitlement to afree core unit house, and a titled lot to be
provided at a subsidizedprice (approximately 1/3f the cost of servicing). There is no monetary
compensaton for displacement. The population is unanimous that the advantages of the project
are so great, and their present condition so lamentable, that calculation of losses and
compensation would befutile and a further waste of time.
If displacement of the population is foreseen, describe the overall process of rehousing
families (work program and time, distribution of responsibilities, coordination among the
different parties concerned).
In order to ensure the best possible reinstallation of the citizens resident in Sidi Harb IV and to
enable an "operation tiroir", it is essential that the operation be carefully phased. The entire site
has been divided according to the morphology of the site and existing settlement patterns into 6
zones, labeled A through F (see accompanying map). The phasing of the operation is as follows.
The project is divided into 6 operational phases by zone, although the timing of the central
phases may overlap in order to complete the prqject in a timely manner. (1) On completion of the
houses in Sidi Harb II! under a preceding operation, and at the start of the project, 32 families
will movefrom Zone A with the assistance of the Municipality and members of the community, a
process completed in less than a day. The structures in Zone A will be demolished the area
divided into 64 lots on which 64 core units will be constructed This first phase is estimated to
take 6 months. (2) When the 64 Zone A core units are readyfor occupation, the occupants of 45
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 3: Socio-economic Check list        Page 4



shacks in Zone B will move into Zone A core units by the same process, leaving a balance of 19
core units in Zone A available for allocation to some families from Zone C. A further 79 core
units will be constructed in Zone B. There is now a total of 98 core units available (19A + 79B).
(3) 86 households will move from Zone C into Zones A and B, leaving a balance of 12 core units
available forfamilies from Zone D. A further 147 core units will be constructed in Zone C. Thus
there is now a total of 159 core units available at the end of Phase 3. (4) 78 households will
move from Zone D into core units constructed in Zones B and C, leaving a balance of 81
available units in C, and enabling the construction of a further 100 core units in D, a total of 181
available units. This operation continues until all residents are rehoused
The number of beneficiaries will be upwardly revised according to the actual number of eligible
families at the time of resettlement. The plan allows a margin of safety, including the
resettlement offamilies living in 38 shacks in the adjacentforest.
There is regular weekly monitoring of the entire process, and close coordination with the elected
representatives of the community, and the representatives of the Annaba Municipal Council.
Thus the phasing may be adjusted according to the pace of construction and site details that may
emerge during actual demarcation.
The detailed distribution of responsibilities is described in the accompanying table.
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 3: Socio-economic Check list        Page 5



COMMUNITY ASSOCIATIONS
Is there one or several associations formed by the inhabitants of the slum area that will be
redeveloped or upgraded?
Yes. El Ansar Association of Sidi Harb.
If yes, is it de facto or officially recognized? Describe the association, its organization and
current activities.
One association, officially recognized by the State. It has strong community support.
The association works with the administration to improve the social situation and conditions of
life of the citizens. (Annex x).
It participated in the census of the community in April 1997.
It plays an intermediary role between the citizens and the administration.
Is this association weU informed about the proposed program of slum redevelopment?
it is well informed
If so, did it participate in the development of the project concept and proposal?
It has been involvedfrom the very beginning and ha taken an active part, through the censu,
elaboration of'the plan, organizing the community to prevent firther construction after the
census, and in representing the interests of the community at all levels of the administration.
If yes, what is its opinion about the anticipated resettlement.
They consider it entirely advantageous, and wish the project to be implemented as soon as
possible. .
Has the association presented any particular claims regarding the improvement of the built
structures in its quarter?
They have made no particular claims. They consider the new core housing units, and the
associated status, to be far greater than the value of their present structures. 1n particular, they
have stated vigorously that (a) they consider their existing housing a shame and an
embarrassment and do not wish to participate in any kind ofprior evaluation for the purposes of
compensation; and also that (b) once rehoused, they would voluntarily destroy theirformer
houses, even if the Municipality did not do so.
T7hey welcome the proposed community center and (outside the project) plans for a health center
to be constructed, outside the project, between Sidi Harb IZ7 and IV
See Socio-Economic studyfor details and explanation
If no community association exists, would it be possible to form one and if so low, under
what form, and at what level would it participate in the project to redevelop slum areas?
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 3: Socio-economic Check list         Page 6



Not applicable to Sidi Harb IV
Sidi Harb IV Resettlement Plan: Annex 3: Socio-economic Check list     Page 7



Annex IV; Sidi Harb IV Resettlemet Plan.
Sumaryof           ff ENIIOMENL ITM MSTONEA URES
MITIGATION                                          ACTION
MEASURE
Forest Protection       Fencing off the forest site from Sidi Harb.
Establish afirebreak
Remove the population resident in the forest and rehouse them..
2 Site Protection         Ring canalfor drainage above the site on the upper slope.
Clean and canal and drainage zone in the north.
3 Safety                  Cover the canal with cement beams to remove all danger to (he population
4 Waste collection        Establish three collection points and manage them.
5 Green space and open    Establish green space and play area
areas



PHOTOGRAPHIC ILLUSTRATIONS



I. City of Annaba, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
%aP"~~'&PQ&  ,,~~                                                                                                5-~'ij:-,
1: Aniiaba, looking soutih from the city center
Rapidly industrializing in the 1970s, in the last few years Annaba has benefited from a major eivironmental cleanip, assisted by the World Bank. The major stcelworks. SIDER, atc situiate( somie 20
km to the south. Sidi Harb IV, the slumil upgrading site, is out of sight to the right, at the foot of nearby hills.
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2. Annaba power station                                3. ASMIDAL Fertilizer Plant                                4. SocialllousiniginiAniniaba
Once the major polluter of the coast and the air, major  Destincd to house the very poor, this solutiotn for low incomiie
polluting units have closed, and Annaba has won awards for    families is only available for a minoiity, and brings fewer
environimilental improvements.               benefits at much greater cost to the govermilenit thani does
slum upgrading in situ.



II. People of Sidi Harb IV, City of Annaba
m                                                                      'w\i  *
_ _ _                                              IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~
flE
Figure 5: The community of Sidi Harb IV is organized and unanimous. For two years, they have
expected a housing project, their foremost priority.
Figure 6: Well informed about the details of the proposed sub-project, they hoped for World Bank
financing, but have formally requested that, if further delays are anticipated, altemative funding
sources should be sought. They feel deep humiliation because of their present living conditions.
/4~~~~~~~~~J
Figure 7: Sub-standard housin reqire         Figure 8: This girl, like the majority of school-
constant expenises for maintenance, is        going children in the community, hopes for
unhealthy, uncomfortable and insecure                  better home conditions



III. Housing in Sidi Harb IV
Figure 9: Sidi Harb IV: general view. Houses are scattered across the hillside. For two
years they have prevented new construction. A video was made with their approval.
Figure 10: Houses are mostly of concrete blocks with asbestos cement roofs. Private connections are
made to the electricity supply, and groups often share the cost of a satellite dish and television
T~Ti
'''s~~~~i
Figure 11. Neighboring Sidi Harb III, although later in priority, is well under way: 32 housing
units, when completed, would be occupied by the first families from Sidi Harb IV, with access to
secure title. Every nuclear family would get a plot and free house, on nominal payment



IV. Dangers for the children of Sidi Harb
f~~                    ~ I  !I-d 
-~~~~~.-~s{                      ,   -   -I
..,  1.    _$
Figure 12: The central canal, built to protect the area from flash floods, has become an open sewer,
traversed by home-made bridges. There is an open sewer connection next to the child at front right of
the picture. Inhabitants downstream of Sidi Harb are also exposed to health hazards.
oz,    . -  S  '1 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Figure 13: Unofficial power connections are common: indeed kinship connections may often be
traced by following the wiring. Many people pay more for private suppliers than they would for
official supply. Such connections are dangerous, and last year a child was electrocuted.
4'-
Figure 14. Stagant water is often polluted. The environment contains other hazards, notably walls
liable to collapse, since houses are built without foundations and walls are weakened in rains; or
building materials dislodged by high winds.



V. Vision for the Future
Figure 15: Sidi Salem, part of greater Annaba urban agglomeration, shows what Sidi Harb people want
urgently. This model twin house shows what the-new owners can eventually complete by themselves.
Their title is sufficient security for a home improvement loan.
Figure 16 (above): Sidi Salem. New owners soon add individual touches showing confidence in their
new status, such as (here) addition of a second storey. Less visible are the highly prized advantages are
a street address, vehicular access, a place where guests and relatives can come, a place to wash
properly, and an inheritance for children. Future beneficiaries call it "the difference between life and
death", "a second Independence". Social housing apartments are in the backcground.
Below (Figure 17): adjacent Sidi Harb III reminds people daily of the future. People from elsewhere
are already resettled in some units, while Sidi Harb IV, a priority two years ago, still waits.
A     .. ;                                                                - 
.. ! .; .... - - ' ; < s . _~~~~~~
iIIwJ,,viif                                   .g 



,9 2?Allan Rotman
~ n2tZ26198 10:49 AM
Extn: 85189          MNSRE
Subject: Algeria: Low-income Housing Project
Environmental Review
February 25,1998
Proposed Low - Income Housing Project
Project Appraisal Review (PAD) Document
Environmental and Social Review Comments
Maryse,
As mandated by the RVP, MNSRE (A.Rotman and S. Arif) has reviewed the PAD document and several
of the project preparation documents, and this note will clarify all the comments and discussions
undertaken with you and your team.
1. Rating Category. As indicated in the PAD, this project involves a-substantial number of people
(approximately 100,000 of 220,000 beneficiaries) to be resettled within the scope of Bank OD430
entitled Involuntary Resettlement, and consequently the project is rated an A category for Environmental
Assessment purposes as par OD4.01. The category of a project is determined by the most significant
enviromnental issues within the project, irrespective of whether or not certain components could be rated
as category B or category C. As this project is clearly an A Category project, consequently the entire
project, with all its components should meet the processing steps set out by OD 4.01 and the internal
Bank requirements. In summary these are:
- submittal of a full Environmental Assessment (EA) Report by the Borrower to the Bank prior to
departure of the appraisal mission, that includes an English language summary and the views of affected
groups and NGOs
- letter from the Borrower allowing the EA Report and the English language summary to be
circulated by the Bank (Sector Director) to the Bank's Executive Directors
- internal procedures to place a copy of the EA in the project file and in the Public Information
Center (PIC)
2. Conditions for Appraisal. As a condition of appraisal the Bank requires that the Borrower provide
the Bank with a resettlement plan that conforms to OD4.30 (draft OP/GPfBP4.12), and that the
resettlement planning be coordinated with the Environmental Assessment (EA), as per OD4.01. As
discussed with you, MNSRE cannot clear the appraisal mission until the Government of Algeria (GOA)
provides the necessary documents.
3. Comments and Issues.    Many of the preliminary steps in environmental assessment and in
resettlement planning are now being completed (e.g. environmental scoping and resettlement policy
framework), however the specific requirements and substantive informnation of the OPs/ODs for an
Environmental Assessment Report and Resettlement Plans have not yet been met. We have identified the
following issues:
- it is not clear how many sites will be carried out in the first phase; the PAD in para Al sets out



50 sites for phase 1; para E6 describes 9 sites; and Annex 12 page 10 lists 19 subprojects.
- para B4 suggest that only 30% of the preparatory studies for EAs and resettlement plans be
completed before appraisal of the second phases by the Bank ; what is the objective prior to appraisal of
Phase I ?
- the PADCO report entitled "Impacts sur L' Environment" dated June 1997, evaluates 18 sites.
However the document is neither a Category A nor Category B EA report I The PADCO enviromnental
report was prepared as a basic first step towards a more complete environmental analysis report and
could be called a scoping document of pre-identified sites. It apparently is part of an overall
pre-feasibility set of reports, but does not compare alternative sites or recommend that alternative sites be
considered because envirommental constraints would be too severe at the pre-selected sites. For example
the site at Sidi Salem I at El Boun (Wilaya d'Annaba) is probably not an acceptable site because severe
air pollution in the general area, and many site specific environmental constraints (i.e. the cumulative
impacts are too severe). In fact most of the sites listed as resettlement sites on page 3 of the PADCO
environmental report have multiple environmental constraints and need to be more carefully evaluated
prior to appraisal.
- -the PADCO reports recommends implementation of more detailed environmental analyses
work in Annexes 3 and 4. We consider the methodologies well though out and of high quality, sufficient
as basic terms of reference TORs for a set of full Category A EA Reports.
- the location for each the project site areas should be more clearly based on well defined
environmental and social criteria (e.g. minimum public health standards when new housing is located
adjacent to industries and other sources of pollution; clear standards for slope stability taking into
account soil erosion potential and seismic events; preservation and buffer zone guidelines for adjacent
forest and other natural areas to be protected; avoidance of high and moderate risk flood zones; locations
with adequate excess capacity to provide environmental infrastructure services; etc.)
- consultation with the affected groups and NGOs should be carried out in as a joint activity to
assist in identification of environmental and involuntary resettlement issues for each project site area
- the demand for external enviromnental services (or external environmental impacts), i.e. effects
outside of the project site areas should be identified within the scope of the project, and these
externalities should be addressed by the project through direct project financing or through identification
of the entity that will finance the new environmental services e.g. the additional demands on solid waste
management services, supply of potable water, treatment of sewerage.
- section D6, should be completely rewritten based on the above comments and the new
information to be new EAs. The section should clearly identify the project as an A category, and list the
major generic issues, and then identify any site specific mitigation that will be implemented by the
project. Similarly Annex II should be revised to show the final EA Report Summary, and presentation of
an overall environmental management plan for the project, supplemented by a few examples of site
specific environmental management plans.
4.0 Recommendations.       Based on the above comments and issues, we would like to outline our
suggestions for further steps in the project:
I) that the next mission should be undertaken to clarify all the above issues through a field
review of the proposed sites, to the extent that security issues allow (e.g. field visits, video taping by
consultants, interviews with government staff and village representative, extensive use of local and
international consultants, etc.).
ii) that a Category A EA Report be prepared that would include resettlement planning, and that
site specific environmental management and resettlement plans be prepared for a minimum of two new
low income housing sub-project sites. The Annexes 3 and 4 of the PADCO environmental analysis report
can serve as basic TORs for the environmental analysis of the sub-project sites. If the mission allows
completion of an EA (that includes the site specific environmental managment and resettlement plans)



acceptable to the Bank, the mission could be upgraded to appraisal status, after return to Washington.
iii) we highly recommend the preparation of a sector wide category EA report for ALL the
possible low income housing project sites with a methodology similar to that set out in the PADCO
report or the methodology set out Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Update, October 1993,
Number 4 entitled Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) (specifically figure 1 for an overview). This
SEA approach would complement resettlement planning that is underway or which would be carried out
in parallel. The SEA framework would be used to screen and select the appropriate sub-projects for the
remainder of Phases I, for the future Phases II and III of the project. Once screening is complete, the
SEA would concentrate on preparing the mandatory resettlement plans and environmental management
plans for each sub-project. It is recommended that sufficient resources be allocated from the Training
and Studies component of the loan, in the order of 1.5 - 2.0 million $US, and that a mandate be given to
an integrated strong team of local and international specialists. The work could be scheduled for an 8-12
month duration, if a sufficient existing data base exists, and should start immediately.
5.0 Loan Conditionalites.    To ensure full implementation of the above approach, the following
conditionalities should be incorporated in to the Loan Agreement.
I) undertake an Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) to complete environmental and
resettlement screening of all the low income housing sites in Phase I not reviewed at project appraisal,
prior to release of bidding documents for these sites
ii) complete 30 percent of the Phase II preparatory studies for low income housing sites
satisfactory to the Bank; the studies should include (a) Sector Environmental Assessment Report
(Category A) that include site specific environmental managment and resettlement plans, (b) bidding
documents, (c) contracts agreements (d) etc.
iii) complete 40 percent of the Phase HI preparatory studies for low income housing sites
satisfactory to the Bank; the studies should include (a) Sector Environmental Assessment Report
(Category A) that include site specific environmental managinent and resettlement plans, (b) bidding
documents, (c) contracts agreements (d) etc.
To: Marvse D. Gautier
cc: Gianni Brizzi
Marisa Femandez-Palacios
Jean-Claude Villiard
John Keith Rennie
Nicole Glineur
Hadi Abushakra
M. Salah Darghouth
Ayse Kudat
Aline Cabal
Tuyet N. Chuppe



