                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 27138-AL

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-43610)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                    POPULAR AND DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                            FOR A

                             DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT




                                       DECEMBER 22, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective Oct. 30, 2003)

                                 Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
                                          1 DA = US$ 0.0173
                                         US$ 1 = 76.50
                               At Appraisal 1US$ = 58.00 DZD
                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1st    December 31st

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADL :  Agence d'Amélioration et de Développement du Logement
          (Housing Improvement and Development Agency)
APL :     Adaptable Program Loan
APS   : Avant-Projet Sommaire (Summary Subproject Design)
CAS  :  Country Assistance Strategy
CNL  :  Caisse Nationale du Logement
        (National Housing Agency)
DUL  :  Directions de l'Urbanisme et Construction
        (Local Directorates of Urban Planning, MoH local offices)
FONAL : Fonds National d'Aide du Logement (National Housing Fund)
GoA  :  Government of Algeria
LIH  :  Low-Income Housing
MoF  :  Ministry of Finance
MoH  :  Ministry of Housing
NGO  :  Nongovernmental Organization
        (Organisation Non Gouvernementale)
OPGI  : Office de Promotion et de Gestion Immobilière
        (Public Housing and Development Agency)
RHP   : Résorption de l'Habitat Précaire
        (Low-Income Housing, LIH)
SME   : Small and Medium-scale Enterprise
SNMG :  Salaire National Minimum Garanti
        (National Minimum-Guaranteed Salary)
SU   :  Support Unit

                                Vice President:   Christian J. Poortman
                              Country Director    Theodore Ahlers
                               Sector Manager     Hedi Larbi
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Mayumi Kato/Abdelghani Inal

                                          ALGERIA
                               DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              24
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            27

Project ID: P042940                                                  Project Name: DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING
Team Leader: Mayumi Kato                                             TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-43610
   Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (32%); Housing
                            construction (25%); Roads and highways (25%); Power (15%);
                            Central government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Other urban development
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/05/1995                                     Effective:                           01/27/1999
     Appraisal: 05/04/1998                                         MTR:                             02/21/2002
      Approval: 06/25/1998                                      Closing:                            06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA/MIN OF HOUSING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Forestier                             Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Mayumi Kato                                    Maryse Gautier
ICR Primary Author:             Abdelghani Inal; Mayumi Kato


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the SAR, the development objective was to: assist the Government of Algeria to improve the
living and housing conditions of the residents of urban slums and non-serviced low-income areas in an
efficient, sustainable way. This would be done through the implementation of a program of investments for
the provision of affordable housing and infrastructure for about 50,000 households living in 750 hectares
of slums and non-serviced land in the wilayas of Algiers, Oran, Constantine, Annaba, Blida, and Tipaza
and other wilayas to be agreed upon between the Government and the Bank.

The SAR also set out six secondary objectives:

(a)      To improve the affordability and financing mechanisms for low-income housing;
(b)      To increase direct cost recovery from beneficiaries;
(c)      To increase the efficiency of technical design of low-income housing;
(d)      To assist the institutions at the central and local level in delivering their responsibilities within
         the project;
(e)      To improve environmental and social policy; and
(f)      To strengthen the institutional capacity for tenure regularization.

The project was prepared during a very difficult period for the country. The Development Objectives were
relevant for both 1996 and current 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Algeria was experiencing a
wave of terrorism that had claimed many lives. There had also been a serious economic downturn that
resulted from a decline in petroleum prices.           Accordingly, the 1996 CAS focused on helping the
Government to achieve macro-economic stabilization and mitigation of the social impacts of the economic
crisis. There was an acute shortage in urban housing and increasing social tension (the urban population
was increasing by approximately 5 percent per year, while the urban housing stock was increasing by only
by 2 percent per year).     Therefore the 1996 CAS specifically identified the housing sector as a priority
area. It set out a sector policy reform agenda of moving from a public sector driven housing supply system
to a market-oriented housing sector. This project was identified as one of the key lending operations at a
time when the overall Bank portfolio was being reduced by half. The current CAS (effective 2003)
continues to support the goal of transition in the housing sector.

The Bank had financed the Housing Completion Project (Loan No.3561-AL) from 1993 to 1998, and
continued its dialogue on sector reform through the preparation of the Housing Sector Adjustment Loan
(H-SAL) as a follow-up. While H-SAL was dropped from the lending program due to the low priority
given it by Government at the time, the Government had continued to adopt some of the policy measures
agreed upon during the preparation of the HSAL, in particular up-front subsidies, expansion of urban
cadastre programs, and mortgage finance (development of legal framework and establishment of a
refinancing institution).    The Government then requested the Bank to respond to urban poverty by
upgrading slums and providing low-income housing through a subsidy program, which led to this project.

There were inherent risks in the project objectives. Not only was the economic and security situation in the
country unfavorable, but also it called for a shift in the way housing had traditionally been provided by
government that agencies in the housing sector and beneficiaries were not familiar with.




                                                        - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had two components, one focused on improving housing and infrastructure in low-income
urban areas, and the other on technical assistance and equipment for the Ministry of Housing (MoH) and
the National Housing Agency       (Caisse nationale du logement, CNL).

1. Site Development for Low-Income Families (US$213.5 million)

This component was to finance design studies, civil works for land servicing and the construction of core
housing units. Land titles were to be provided to beneficiary households upon complete payment of
beneficiary financial contributions.

Sub-projects were of three types: (i) on-site upgrading (services only); (ii) off-site resettlement (housing and
services), and (iii) new-site development (housing and services). Sub-project implementation was assigned
to the local Urban Development Directorates (Directions de l'urbanisme et construction locales-DUC)
under the guidance of the MoH. The local DUC was responsible for contracting operators/promoters who
were from the public sector, mostly Housing Improvement and Development Agencies (Agences
d'amélioration et de développement du logement, AADL) or local land development agencies (Agences
Foncières Locales, AFL).        Operators were responsible for preparing detailed studies and bidding
documents.

Funds from the Bank Loan and the Government's counterpart contributions were to be channeled through
the National Housing Fund (Fonds national du logement, FONAL), managed by the National Housing
Agency (CNL). Beneficiaries were expected to pay 20 percent of the market price of the plot and 30
percent of the land development cost. Government and commune funds were to be used on a case-by-case
basis for additional works, such as primary networks in off-site areas. The core housing units (30-40 m2
per unit), were to be covered by an up-front housing subsidy through the FONAL. The cost was initially
estimated at DZD 10,000 per m2 (US$172, based on an exchange rate of 1US$=58DZD in 1997). The
average cost per m2 cost of site servicing was estimated at DZD 1,600 (US$27.5). The amount of the
FONAL subsidy was fixed, leaving beneficiaries to bear any eventual construction cost overruns.

2. Training, Studies, and Equipment to Strengthen MoH and CNL Management (US$4.8 million)

The second component aimed at strengthening the MoH and CNL's capacity for project implementation
and setting up monitoring and sectoral management systems. The component aimed in particular to
strengthen: (a) the capacities of local departments of the MoH through training programs on environment,
sub-project preparation and management; and (b) the CNL `s management capacity based on a new
organizational development plan (staff training, installation of computerized management systems, and
purchase of equipment). The component also included financing for a study on local government fiscal
resources and recruitment of a team of consultants to set up a unit that would provide support for
coordination and quality control during Project implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no major revision in the design during the implementation, except the changes in the
disbursement percentage, prior review threshold and the addition of participating wilayas from six initially



                                                     - 3 -

planned in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) to twelve (with addition of the wilayas of Bouira, Guelma,
M'Sila, Médéa, Skikda and Tébessa). Changes on the disbursement percentage (from 80 percent to 100
percent under the works category) and prior review threshold (increase in the procurement prior review
threshold for works from US$750,000 to US$1 million) were made at the Government's request in June
2000 as measures to accelerate disbursement. However, these changes were not sufficient to address the
fundamental elements triggering delays: complex project design; weak capacity of the local implementation
agencies; and the decreasing level of the Government's interest in the project's participatory approach as a
solution to the problems of slums and its change of priorities.

Given the highly participatory nature of the project and complexity of its implementation arrangements, it
was initially limited to six wilayas. However, the Government insisted on the addition of six more wilayas
bringing the total to twelve (with the addition of the wilayas of Bouira, Guelma, M'Sila, Médéa, Skikda
and Tébessa), which increased the complexity of the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory due to an overly complex design, inadequate assessment of risks and
inadequate judgment readiness for implementation. Also, key stakeholders such as local government
officials and beneficiaries were not sufficiently consulted about project design.

Inadequate Risk Assessment

The Bank overestimated the government's commitment. The potential impact of the improvements in the
government's fiscal situation and the eventual change in its housing policy that occurred during the early
stages of the project were not sufficiently assessed. As Algeria's economy and fiscal situation depended
on international oil prices, a thorough risk assessment should have been conducted to how government
policy might change under different cost recovery and fiscal scenarios (i.e. if oil prices rose). When this
happened, the government reverted to a high subsidy, top-down housing strategy. The project then had to
be implemented in parallel with other housing programs, which were more financially advantageous to the
low-income population.       This resulted in uneven competition between the middle and low-income
populations and discouraged beneficiaries from contributing financially to the project.

Complex Design

Project design did not take account of the implementation risks evident in the country's project portfolio at
that time. Overly complex arrangements were proposed for: (i) institutional arrangements, (ii) financing
schemes, and (iii) procedures for preparing subprojects.

(i) The implementation of the project involved several central and local government institutions such as: the
Ministry of Housing as well as officials at the wilaya or commune level, but their respective responsibilities
for implementation (e.g. procurement, selection of subprojects, monitoring and evaluation) were not well
defined.    Combining off-site and on-site investments in the same sub-projects further complicated
institutional complexity.

(ii) Financing schemes were developed, assuming timely disbursements from the central government and
contributions from local governments (whose financing is mainly supported by the state budget),
beneficiaries, and cross subsidies from the sales of plots. A delay in any one-source financing led to delays
in sub-projects, even when all other sources of financing were secured. With these complex-financing
arrangements the project was not able to respond quickly to an unexpected increase in the cost of civil
works. This risk was not foreseen at appraisal.



                                                     - 4 -

(iii) The procedures for preparing subprojects were not developed adequately.           Normally subproject
preparation should involve coordination among the various stakeholders such as local government officials,
utilities, the state property department, and community residents, to reflect diverse needs of each
community. An agreed investment plan is then developed with a scope and cost agreeable to all parties.
However, the procedures developed during project preparation mainly focused on administrative issues
such as environmental management plan, social surveys, economic analysis and cost estimate.

Inadequate Stakeholder Consultation

While the main beneficiaries and stakeholders are residents and local government officials, consultations in
the field (i.e. wilayas and communes) involving them were not carried out fully. The local ownership was
a key to the success of this project, and in retrospect, the more effort should have given to encourage
ownership of local governments and residents, and understanding and support from local office of the
central government (Ministry of Interior and Local Governments, State Property Department), which would
be the main counterpart of subprojects implementation, including identification, design, and auction of
public land. The involvement of these local stakeholders would have resulted in more practical procedures
for subproject preparation. Particularly, adequate prior consultation was lacking on financial contributions
required by beneficiaries. Project preparation focused on the regulatory aspects of preparing Resettlement
Action Plans, but not sufficiently on the actual processes. This was fundamental, given that the system
introduced by the project - financial participation by beneficiaries ­ was new in Algeria and in conflict with
the existing state-dependant system that did not involve a large beneficiary input. Social studies performed
at the preliminary design stage served only to validate the chosen sub-projects and were not used to
examine the risks and determine the options or modifications that might be required to maintain
beneficiaries' commitment.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the project objective is rated unsatisfactory due to the limited output and project impact.
The physical objective was to reach 50,000 households living on 750 hectares of slums lacking basic
services. By 2003, 32,825 households in 11 wilayas were included by the project, but only 12,127
families, less than one quarter of the original target of 50,000, had benefited from the project. While the
Government intends to continue the completion of on-going housing and infrastructure for about 17,800
families, planned achievement has fallen short of the objectives. Investments for the remaining households
continue under Government financing. While it is recognized that the project failed to achieve its basic
development objective, by bringing housing and infrastructure and basic services to poor neighborhoods, it
improved living conditions considerably. Some policy-related sub-objectives have been achieved as
elaborated below.

     (a) To improve the affordability and financing mechanisms for low-income housing

     This secondary objective has not been achieved. The project was expected to increase affordability by:
     (i) targeting low income families with incomes less than twice the SNMG (national minimum
     guaranteed salary ­ French abbreviation ­ DZD 4500, or US$77.5 equivalent per month in 1997), and
     (ii) reducing subsidies by introducing beneficiary contributions. However, the monitoring of subsidies
     at the central level was difficult because the necessary information was kept at the project sites.
     During implementation MoH introduced a new housing program targeted more at middle-income
     families ("Rent-to-Buy" schemes), providing subsidies for higher standard houses. Per-family housing



                                                     - 5 -

subsidies under this latter program were three times those implemented under the project, which
conflicted with the subsidy program of the project and limited its desirability.

(b) To increase direct cost recovery from beneficiaries

The achievement of this secondary objective has not been achieved. The project was designed to
introduce beneficiary contributions, but the sub-projects often started before the contributions were
made. Thus, beneficiaries had little incentive to pay their contributions, except in the case of new
houses where full payment was required as a condition of occupancy. Almost all the amounts of
required contributions were recovered for new houses at closing, but only 4 to 10 percent of the
contributions due were collected for on-site infrastructure upgrading and new site development. The
Government raised standards for "low-income housing" in 2000 which were then applied to the project.
This had a negative impact on cost recovery because the amount of subsidies was not adjusted
accordingly for the project's beneficiaries. The higher cost resulting from raising the standard had to be
paid by the beneficiaries.

(c) To increase the efficiency of technical design of low-income housing

Achievement of this secondary objective has been partly achieved. Under the project private design
engineers explored ways to reduce infrastructure and housing costs by making technical adjustments.
As a result, the per m2 construction cost for low-income housing has been reduced.               At closing, the
cost of low-income housing per DA 10,000-12,000 and 12,000-15,000 for semi-detached and detached
houses respectively which almost the appraisal target of an average cost of DZD 10,000 per m2 in real
terms. In addition, the cost of a serviced site ranges from DZD 800 to DZD 2,000 per m2, with an
average of DZD 1,200. This figure is nearly half of the appraisal target cost (DZD 1,600 in 1996
value, or DZD 2,100 in 2003 value). In general, per m2 cost is significantly lower than those of social
rental housing construction cost except few developed in the difficult terrain (e.g. steep slopes, rocky
soils). However, it should also be noted that the positive impacts of decreased per m2 price has been
offset by the increased standard of the low-income housing.

(d) To assist the institutions at the central and local levels to fulfill their responsibilities within the
project

The achievement of this secondary objective was achieved in part. A study on housing finance and real
estate and land markets, originally included in the project, was carried out as part of preparation of the
Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance Project (effective March 2003). Training for the CNL was
carried out with assistance from the Agence française de développement (AFD) separately from the
project. However, other activities such as training programs for local units responsible for project
implementation, studies on local fiscal resources, monitoring and evaluation, and the establishment of a
housing database, were not carried out. Consequently, there was no adequate visible impact of the
project to strengthen institutional capacity at either local or central level.

(e) To improve environmental and social policy

This secondary objective was achieved in part. Under the project, environmental assessments and
resettlement plans were integrated into sub-projects. As this is the first case for the country to take
such a comprehensive approach, there are still some implementation issues (for example, delay in
completing primary networks prior to resettlement, beneficiaries' request to obtain their plot free of
charge, refusal for resettlement, etc.). Nevertheless, this approach has set good procedures to deal with


                                                   - 6 -

    environment and resettlement issues in a transparent and coordinated manner.

    (f) To strengthen the institutional capacity for tenure regularization

    This secondary objective was not achieved.          While granting title insurance is cumbersome and
    complex, no major steps were taken by the State Property Department (service des domains)and MoH
    to improve its practices and streamline the delivery of land titles in an effective way.

4.2 Outputs by components:
By the mid-term review, the economic situation in the country had changed due to rising petroleum prices.
This gave the MoH an incentive to revert to the previous top-down housing policies. Subsidies were
increased and cost recovery was reduced. A heavily subsidized "rent-to-buy" system was introduced that
cost the State much more than the one established under the project. At the Mid-Term Review the MoH
asked the Bank to re-allocate uncommitted loan proceeds to a new rural housing component. A housing
policy seminar was organized in December 2002 to review sector policies after which the Bank decided not
to support this request because this new component was not consistent with the project's objectives and
there was not enough time remaining in the project for it. In February 2003, the MoH therefore requested a
partial cancellation of US$50 million. The original closing date was maintained.

Project Component 1 - Site Development for Low-Income Families ­ (US$213.5 million)

Overall output of this component is rated unsatisfactory.

By the end of the project, this component was to supply 50,000 slum households with serviced sites
equipped with basic utilities, as well as houses. Given the component output (12,127 completed, 17,820
underway), this component did not achieve its expected output.



                                          Completed              Under            Total amount     Total number
                                           during the        implementation       of beneficiary   of households
                                            project          and taken over       contributions    contributed at
                                           duration              by the           (Million DZD     least partially
                                            (units)*          Government             and %)             (%)
                                                               (units)*
                          On-site            5 825               9528              54.04(4%)       549 (4%)
                         Upgrading
                      Newly-developed        2 781               2 261            72.09 (28%)     524 (10%)
                             lots
                           Off-site          3 521               6 031           4260.51(29%      5251(43%)
                         resettlement
                           Total            12 127              17 820             552 (19%)      6324(20%)
                     *housing units

Out of 66 sites in 12 wilayas identified to be covered by the project, 63 sites in 11 wilayas proceeded to
implementation. Over 1,200 contracts were awarded, essentially to SMEs. The number of households
benefiting from completed works as of September 30, 2003 is 12,127, or 24 percent of the Project's initial
objective. The number of households hoping to benefit soon from on-going works, assuming that they are
successfully completed, is estimated at 17,820 (35.6 percent of initial objective), bringing the total number



                                                      - 7 -

of beneficiaries to 29,947 (59.6 percent of initial objective). Beneficiaries who have paid their contributions
are still few in number. Cost recovery was better for off-site resettlement sub-projects because beneficiaries
were not given occupancy their contributions were paid in full. Beneficiaries of newly developed lots hoped
to acquire plots free of charge, as this used to be Government policy. Beneficiaries of on-site upgrading
were not asked to pay contributions, since they have already established their residence and there was no
urgent need to regularize the tenure.

Project Component 2 - Training, Studies, and Equipment to Strengthen MoH and CNL Management
(US$4.8 million)

The institutional development component, except for the acquisition of computer equipment, was not
carried out due to the lack of counterpart funds and lack of commitment of beneficiary institutions and is
rated unsatisfactory. However, the project did help to improve the performance of local operators and
introduced quality and economy into program design and execution. In addition, for the first time social and
environmental issues were taken into account in housing and slum-upgrading projects.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was expected to improve the welfare of slum residents by providing improved shelter and
infrastructure. The benefits of these investments are difficult to quantify. However, the project did initiate
a new low-income housing approach that is much more cost effective than previous housing policies. A
thorough study of rent enhancements due to improved housing, infrastructure and tenure could not be
undertaken. However a simple economic analysis was carried out using the following assumptions:
(a) Cost: land price is assumed at DZD 1,200 (average auction price) and Standard Conversion Factor
     (SCF) of 75 percent was used for overall construction cost, considering the current unemployment.

 (b) Benefit: as a proxy to measure the benefit of residents, 120 percent of the current rent for social
       housing (DZD 108 per m2 per month) was used. A 20 percent increase was considered reasonable to
       capture the extra benefit resulting from more security in tenure, and possibilities for future expansion
       of the housing.

The calculated Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 11.6%, implying that the investment carried
out under the project is marginally economic. However, many non-quantified benefits have not been
included which, they were, would bring up the EIRR to an acceptable level.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return could not be carried out for this project. However, financial analysis was carried
out to compare the effectiveness of various housing subsidies: (a) the subsidy program introduced under the
project (LIH subsidies scheme), (b) social rental housing, and (c) the Rent-to-Buy scheme. LIH subsidies
scheme and social rental housing aimed at the low-income levels (families with income below 2 times the
national guaranteed minimum wage, approximately DZD 16,000 per annum), whereas the Rent-to-Buy
scheme targets middle income families (upper limit of DZD 40,000 per annum).




                                                      - 8 -

The table below summarizes the per-dwelling unit subsidies for these three housing subsidy schemes.

                             Government Assistance (per Dwelling Unit, in DZD)

Subsidy on:                  LIH Project                     Social rental housing              Rent-to-Buy
Land                                                 192,000                            150,000                 750,000
Infrastructure                                        75,000                            125,000                 175,000
Construction                                         350,000                            754,000                        0
VAT                                                   38,900                              57,500                142,300
Interest                                                    0                                  0               1,176,000
TOTAL                                                655,900                          1,086,500                2,243,300
                             G. Horenfeld,"Study on Housing Supply Constraints in Algeria, 2003


The above table shows that the Bank-financed project (LIH) offers the most cost effective solution among
these three schemes. This program is especially more cost effective than the Social Rental Housing, which
targets the same low-income level. The difference would be further increased if the additional maintenance
(85 percent of the actual maintenance cost) were considered. Further analysis on the allocation of housing
subsidies for low-income family also confirmed this point. According to the analysis, only 14% of
Government assistance goes to the lowest 25% of urban households. The greatest share of Government
assistance--84%--goes to households with middle incomes. Per family subsidy for the low-income is about
60 percent of those for middle-income families.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
At the local level, the project offered training in a participatory approach involving local institutions such
as DUC, AADL, AFL, and private consulting firms. The collaboration of these types of agencies has led
to a more comprehensive approach to housing resettlement, including dealing with environmental and social
considerations. However, this approach was adopted rather informally, and little training or institutional
development took place.       In particular, while the project's component 2 envisaged supporting and
developing this collaboration, no activities were carried out due to the lack of counterpart funds.
Awareness of the multi-sector approach to slum upgrading was enhanced among these agencies, but
sustainability of this collaboration after the completion of the project is uncertain.

Institutional development at the national level was more limited.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The precarious security situation in the country made project preparation and implementation very difficult
and extremely slow, particularly for the activities involving population surveys, consultations and
resettlement.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project supported slum upgrading by providing infrastructure and housing and preventing from
expansion of slums through housing subsidy programs. This was a new approach to housing policy in
Algeria. When the Government fiscal position improved, the MoH reverted to its previous strategy of
providing housing directly in parallel programs focusing on middle-income families that were provided with
larger subsidies per family.      This was inconsistent with the focus of the project (see Section 4.4).
Would-be beneficiaries of this project were then discouraged to participate, opting for participating in the
parallel programs. Local implementation agencies were also uncertain about the MoH's priority, focused
less on the Bank-supported projects. Housing standards under the Bank-assisted project were upgraded
from incremental core housing to single complete units without consultation with the local implementation



                                                          - 9 -

agencies (DUC, operators, consultants) or beneficiaries. This led to the increase in contributions by
beneficiaries and communes and has reduced their interest in the project.

Counterpart funds were not provided for Component 2, which limited the impact on capacity building and
institutional strengthening. The implementation of the project was often delayed by cumbersome procedures
for issuing property titles, which is responsibility of the State Property Department.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Further, during implementation of the project, MoH's view on the project has become skeptical about the
effectiveness to address the issue of emerging urban slums, and MoH eventually decreased its logistic
support essential for its implementation.

In particular, the functions of the Support Unit were contracted out to a local private firm with architects,
engineers, a social scientist and a financial analyst to supervise the overall progress of sub-projects, while
the MoH assigned only one staff for liaison. This arrangement complicated decision-making when the local
teams raised implementation issues, particularly when the number of wilayas participating in the project
was been increased from 6 to 12. Institution building was not given a priority and counterpart funds were
not made available as needed.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, total Project cost was estimated at US$218.3 million, of which US$150 million (68.71
percent) was to be financed by the World Bank, US$2.1 million (1 percent) by the communes, US$23.5
million (10.76 percent) by the Government and US$42.7 million (19.53 percent) by the beneficiaries.

In January 2003, the Government requested the cancellation of US$50 million from the Bank loan and an
extension of the project closing date. Cancellation was approved, but the extension was not granted due to
the low likelihood that the project would attain its objectives. By the end of the Project, a total of US$41.97
million had been disbursed out of total project cost of US$161.9 million. In total, about US$100 million of
the US$150 million loan was cancelled by closing (US$50 million cancelled in January 2003 and US$50
million undisbursed at the closing).      The Government decided to take over the financing within the
framework of FONAL subsidies for the completion.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is unlikely.

While the investments made under the project (i.e. approximately 12,000 housing units) have been
transferred to beneficiaries and should be maintained, the sustainability of the policy approach and
institutional arrangements is unlikely (see Section 5.3).

The local implementation agencies (DUC, operators and consultants) continue to be involved in upgrading
slums using the expertise developed under the project, particularly in the social and environmental aspects
of slum upgrading and housing development. In addition, CNL has established a system to manage
procurement and financial data. However, these agencies have not developed the capacity to use complex
housing finance schemes (calculation of subsidies and contributions from beneficiaries and communes),
update information on beneficiaries, and mobilize beneficiary participation. It is unlikely that MoH will
support these agencies to acquire these skills, given the low priority placed on institution building at the
local level during the project.




                                                      - 10 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has decided to continue the implementation of the subprojects, maintaining the original
target of completing 50,000 units using FONAL funds.

Regarding reform in the housing sector policy, during the Housing Policy Seminar in December 2002
(co-organized by the French Government, Algerian Government, and the Bank), the Bank offered support
for the Government to carry out a more in-depth analysis of the current housing programs, including slum
upgrading and low cost housing for future strategy development. In this regard, ESW on housing sector
was included in the 2003 CAS. However, the Government has not yet confirmed its commitment to
proceed with this analysis.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation is rated unsatisfactory. This is mainly because of the risky nature of
the policy changes proposed. Considerable progress was made by the Bank in advancing the policy
dialogue. The bottom-up participatory approach to slum upgrading that was designed was consistent with
strategies used in many countries and could have helped reduce housing subsidies in Algeria.        However,
the practicality of the institutional readiness for this new approach in Algeria was not fully taken into
account. Uncertainties about financial resources at the commune level should have especially been taken
more into account.      The risk of the government changing its commitment to the project strategy,
particularly the subsidy strategy, if its fiscal situation improved was not fully appreciated.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory on balance. The team faced a difficult environment.
There was a very highly sensitive security situation which kept missions from carrying out supervision
visits. By the mid-term review the government was wavering on critical policy issues. Under these
circumstances, supervision missions were not able to assure that the policies, particularly those involving
subsidies agreed upon earlier for the project, were adhered to. During the Mid-Term Review in 2001 the
supervision team pursued a three-pronged approach (i) short-term measures to move the project forward;
(ii) resumption of the dialogue on overall housing policies in order to redefine slum upgrading policies; (iii)
and restructuring the project. This proved not to be possible in the prevailing difficult environment, and the
project had to be restructured with a partial cancellation. The decision to maintain the original closing date
in spite of the strong extension request from the Borrower was appropriate because the government's
request to finance rural housing would have completely changed the project objective.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory, especially given the failure to identify the policy and
institutional development risks inherent in the project design.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated unsatisfactory. Complex institutional and
subsidy arrangements were made which proved difficult to fulfill.             In addition, the State Property
Department (services des domaines) was not involved in coordinating on land auctioning for the project
which would have been necessary for beneficiaries to gain property titles.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory, as it made little effort to improve project



                                                        - 11 -

implementation when trouble arose. There was very limited capacity at the MoH. The introduction of a
different set of subsidies targeting the same beneficiary groups as the project and higher construction
standards on low-income housing created a conflicting policy environment under which the original
objectives of the project could not be attained. Increases in land prices and cumbersome land tenure
regulation procedures required closer involvement of the State Property Department (services des
domains) which did not happen during the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the project implementation agencies at the local level is rated satisfactory, given their
commendable efforts to implement the project and to move it forward, despite its complex financing scheme
and a difficult and even hostile environment, through the application of new and more rigorous methods and
an innovative environmental and social approach to the sector.           The project introduced the local
implementation agencies to a new way of designing and implementing slum upgrading and housing
operations. A multi-sectoral participatory approach and the integration of safeguard aspects (social and
environment) through preparation and implementation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) and
Environmental Management Plans (EMP) required close contacts with the beneficiaries and all other actors
involved. It also requires not only technical knowledge on physical planning but also general project and
people management skills. During the life of the project, local implementation agencies remained keen to
respond to these requirements even in difficult environments. The project positively affected the mind-set
and approach among professionals in local implementation agencies, whose training had tended to be
focused on physical outputs.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory. Lack of consistent policy made it difficult to
achieve the project objective. The results achieved (12,127 households, compared to a target of 50,000,
benefiting).

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons are summarized as follows:

·        It is important to understand the degree of political commitment a borrower has to a project and
how economic and political changes might affect that commitment. It is also important to assess whether
this commitment will be sustained in a changing economic environment. In Algeria there had been a long
history of top-down provision of housing by the Government. This policy became less affordable during
the slump in oil prices that occurred before the preparation of this project, which was a factor in the
agreement of less subsidized alternative policies recommended by the Bank. The detailed system of more
limited subsidies and local participation that was designed for this project seemed appropriate for the
existing economic environment, but government lost interest in it when oil prices rose and reverted to
previous policies.

·        A flexible project design would have been useful to facilitate adjustments in the project if policy
changes. Local teams learned important lessons from the first group of subprojects, but there was no
mechanism for the lessons to be used to improve subsequent subprojects. A phased approach allowing more
flexibility to improve the design would have been useful. In designing a project with a phased approach, a
well-defined monitoring and evaluation (M&E) mechanism would be important so that the Bank and the
Borrower can monitor performance and make necessary changes.

·        Visible commitments from beneficiaries are needed. The project did not include concrete measures



                                                   - 12 -

to confirm serious commitment of beneficiaries who are willing to participate in the project. During social
surveys, beneficiaries who wanted participate in the project always responded positively to the questions on
their willingness and readiness to make required financial contribution regardless of their financial
capacity. The project started with Government financing, without asking the beneficiaries to prove its
commitment.      Once the sub-projects are in place, the operators faced various resistances from the
beneficiaries to pay, which later caused difficulties in financing schemes to complete the sub-projects.
Alternative scenarios such as use of resident savings as an incentive and screening device to which
subsidies could be attached (e.g. by way of pre-payment of certain percentage of their dues) could have
been considered.

·        Institutional arrangements for the provision of land tenure are critical. The cost recovery and land
tenure regulation planned for the project were delayed because land auction data was not available and title
registration was complex.

·        Capacity building at the local level needs to go in parallel with slum up-grading schemes.         The
project introduced new design and implementation methodologies to local teams, particularly concerning
the importance of socio-economic aspects and multi-sectoral coordination.            However, this important
learning was not reinforced due to the cancellation of technical assistance component. The project could
not finance these activities due to the lack of Government counterpart financing.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A summary of the Borrower's comments is as follows:

·        Role of institutions
The realism should count in the designing of the project's implementation arrangements by taking into
consideration all the data in the field and the complexities, limitations and contradictions of the field.

Management of the subprojects through adopting the injunctions by local governments is not productive.

·        Land regularization
The question on land and its implication on the transfer of the ownership and the establishment of titles
should be separate from the implementation planning of the project.

Improvement in the procedures of the delivery of titles rests on the evolution of the general context of
administration with regards to the organizational plan and the material.

·        Training
Training of the operators should not be ensured over the project implementation.            Training should be
forged in a daily manner in the implementation in the field through its own challenges and requirements.

·        Performance of the operators
Resorting to the operators from the private sector instead of the technical services of the sector in ensuring
the supervision of the project of social nature has clearly influenced the results. In fact, aside from the lack
of experience, their status as the private/commercial sector did not allow them to accomplish suitably
certain tasks, which were entrusted to them. Also, efficiency required over the institutional arrangements
did not meet what was required in the field situation.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                     - 13 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                             - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Ratio of housing units located in slums and                                           National:524,000 housing units, 10.45%*
illegal encroachments as compared to initial
figures for the selected wilayas
Number of households benefiting from the     34,171 households targeted through       12,127 households**
housing and infrastructure component         on-going 64 sub-projects in 11 wilayas



* The data was not made available from the Borrower to compare between the actual and the baseline for
11 wilayas.
** At the project's closing the target was further reduced from 34,171 households (PSR #15) to 32,825
households, out of which 12,127 households benefitted from completed sub-projects.
Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate


Share of cost recovered directly from        20.4% of the total cost                  4.4% of the total cost
beneficiaries
Average construction cost                    Housing: 10,000 DZD/m2                   Housing
                                             Land servicing: 1,600 DZD/m2             Semi-detached:10,000-12,000 DZD/m2
                                                                                      Single completed house:12,000-15,000 DZD

                                                                                      Land servicing 800-1,200 DZD/m2


1 End of project




                                                                - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Slum Development                                        178.20         134.66            75.57
2. Institutional Strengthening                               4.20            0.29             6.9

Total Baseline Cost                                        182.40         134.95
 Physical Contingencies                                     25.10          18.89            75.26
 Price Contingencies                                        10.80            8.10              75
                          Total Project Costs              218.30         161.94
                    Total Financing Required               218.30         161.94


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          183.90           12.20         0.00         0.00         196.10
                                  (137.00)         (8.80)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (145.80)
2. Goods                            0.40            0.10         0.00         0.00          0.50
                                   (0.30)          (0.10)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.40)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         4.30         5.00          9.30
Consultants and                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.80)         (0.00)       (3.80)
supervision
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         12.40        12.40
Land purchase                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          184.30           12.30         4.30         17.40        218.30
                                  (137.30)         (8.90)      (3.80)         (0.00)      (150.00)




                                                - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                               153.50              0.00              0.00             0.00             153.50
                                           (41.69)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (41.69)
    2. Goods                                0.31               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.31
                                           (0.25)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.25)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
    Consultants and                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
    supervision
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             8.10              8.10
    Land purchase                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                              153.81              0.00              0.03             8.10             161.94
                                           (41.94)            (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (41.97)
   Studies included in the civil works cost, as it was contracted as part of supervision of works.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Slum Development            145.80       67.70                    41.69        119.91                 28.6     177.1
2. Institutional                4.20         0.60                     0.28         0.06                   6.7      10.0
Strengthening


   The actual estimate means the project financing at the time of Loan closing.




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project was expected to improve the welfare of slum residents by providing improved shelter and
infrastructure. The benefits of these investments are difficult to quantify. However, the project did initiate
a new low-income housing approach that is much more cost effective than previous housing policies. A
thorough study of rent enhancements due to improved housing, infrastructure and tenure could not be
undertaken. However a simple economic analysis was carried out using the following assumptions:

(a)     Cost: land price is assumed at DZD 1,200 (average auction price) and Standard Conversion Factor
        (SCF) of 75 percent was used for overall construction cost, considering the current unemployment.

(b)      Benefit: as a proxy to measure the benefit of residents, 120 percent of the current rent for social
         housing (DZD 108 per m2 per month) was used. A 20 percent increase was considered reasonable
         to capture the extra benefit resulting from more security in tenure, and possibilities for future
         expansion of the housing.

The calculated Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 11.6%, implying that the investment carried
out under the project is marginally economic. However, many non-quantified benefits have not been
included which, they were, would bring up the EIRR to an acceptable level.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/15/1998                     Municipal Engineer (1); Environ.
                                             Spec (1); Economist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/04/1998                     Economist (1); Municipal
                                             Engineer (1); Social Scientist
                                             (1); Consultant (4); Environ.
                                             Spec (1).
              05/11/1998                     Economist (1); Municipal
                                             Engineer (1); Legal (1)

 Supervision

              11/28/1998                5    Economist (1); Municipal               U               S
                                             Engineer (1); Environ. Spec (1);
                                             Social Scientist (1); Consultant
                                             (1)
              06/20/1999                4    Sr. Municipal Engineer (1);            S               S
                                             Consultant (2); Projects Assistant
                                             (1)
              10/21/1999                3    Task Team Leader (1); Environ.         S               S
                                             Spec. (1); Princ. Fin. Analyst (1)
              04/24/2000                3    Mission Leader (1); Portfolio          S               S
                                             Manager (1); Princ. Fin. Analyst
                                             (1)
              10/26/2000                4    Civil Engineer, TL (1); Lead Fin.      S               S
                                             Analyst (1); Urban Planner (1);
                                             Sr. Social Scientist (1)
              01/26/2001                2    Financial Analyst (1); Urban           S               S
                                             Planner (1)
              05/18/2001                2    Fin. Analyst (1); Urb. Mgmt.           S               S
                                             Specialist (1)
              07/27/2001                2    Fin. Analyst (1); Urb. Mgmt.           S               S
                                             Specialist (1)
              02/16/2002                9    Financial Mgmt. (1); Urban             S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Engineers (2);
                                             Economists (2); Housing Spec.
                                             (1); Social Scientist (1);
                                             Environ. Spec. (1)
              05/15/2002                1    Urban Spec. (1)                        U               U
              12/24/2002                2    Urban Spec. (1);                       U               U
                                             Engineer/Economist (1)

 ICR
              11/03/2003                2     Urban Spec./TTL (1);                  U               U
                                              Economist (1)




                                              - 19 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              392.0
  Supervision                                                        492.0
  ICR                                                                  40.0
  Total                                                              924.0




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Project Appraisal Document, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, Low Income Housing
  Project. World Bank Report No. 17393-AL, June 1, 1998
  Loan Agreement
  Project Supervision Reports
  Back-to-Office Reports
  Periodic Progress Reports
  Project Completion Report prepared by the Borrower November 30, 2003




                                              - 23 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Dr. Madani Safar Zitoun and his team carried out a beneficiary survey during Mid-Term Review, with
follow-up studies during 2002. Dr.Madani, a social scientist and local consultant, was involved as part of
the Bank missions in the preparation of Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) during appraisal and
Resentment Action Plan (RAP) during supervision. The survey focused on the social aspect of the
project, namely: (a) implementation of resettlement action plans (RAP); (b) social impacts on
populations, and on the institutional actors; and, (c) aspects related to the institutional environment. The
results are summarized as follows.

                                   1. Implementation of Resettlement Plans
l   There were problems in integrating the socio-economic component into the sub-projects'
    organizational set-up, during the preparatory studies as well as during the implementation of
    resettlement operations mainly including:

l   Lack of familiarity, on the part of consulting firms and operators, with the `opération-tiroir'* concept
    recommended by the donor;
l   Complex implementation of these opérations-tiroir which, even in cases where they were well
    designed, caused problems with field-level coordination among the various parties involved in the
    resettlement process; and
l   Finally, the very unappealing nature of this modus operandi for operators as well as for local
    authorities, who were very unenthusiastic about applying it, mainly because of the stipulation that
    people, not is displaced.

*Opération-tiroir' refers to an operation to resettle in phases.


                                         2. Social impacts of the project
   2.1. Reactions by the people to the project

The project helped bring about a noticeable improvement in the living conditions of the affected
populations. The dwellings provided, generally of good quality, met with the approval of the resettled
households, with a few exceptions noted in rural sites with a predominantly agricultural population.        In
sites where structures housed economic activities (e.g., livestock, informal handicrafts workshops, small
businesses, etc.), the proposed design was not as well received as had been anticipated, with the result
that a number of households withdrew from the project voluntarily.

The arrangements concerning financial participation got a very mixed reception from the affected
populations.    The beneficiaries' attitudes were generally favorable during the initial phases of the
sub-projects. They evolved subsequently, however, to range from total commitment to an absolute
reversal of attitude, depending on the household, the type of operation, and the level of financial
contribution requested. The figures noted during the mid-term review showed extreme contrasts among
sites, but particularly within sites, i.e., between households, apparently without their being a clear and
categorical explanation. Sixty percent of affected households in the 63 sites initiated had paid a part of
their contribution and, of this number, only 40 percent had settled their entire debt vis-à-vis the operator.
Moreover, these rates varied widely from one site to another, but especially from one household to
another within sites, apparently without any clear and categorical explanation. A quantitative analysis of
the impact of context-related variables on the rate of recovery, such as : i) the existence of a duly drawn
up beneficiary list; ii) the existence of property deeds; iii) the sale price of the parcel (which can vary by
a factor of ten depending on the site); iv) the degree of organization (i.e., whether or not there was a site
committee);      v) the profession of the head of household, his level of income (and therefore his
solvency), etc., based on a sampling of 30 sites in which development had commenced, revealed no
significant correlation Two main factors, seem to explain the population's relative reluctance to pay:

l   Factors intrinsic to the subprojects and related to procedural and managerial issues, such as: the
    lack of pressure by operators on delinquent debtors; construction site delays; poor management of
    the collection of payments; and conflicts of interest arising between groups of residents on the



                                                      - 24 -

    subject of re-settlement.
l   Factors extrinsic to sub-projects and related to the lack of clear signals being sent by the policy
    environment in general, in particular, by housing policy. The public authorities' increasingly lenient
    and conciliatory attitude with regard to the payment obligation fueled the beneficiaries' hopes for free
    housing and caused them to develop strategies for stalling and refusing to pay.

2.2. Reaction from the professional and administrative milieus


  Participation, as a concept and another consultative procedure to be mastered, was perceived and
negotiated differently by the institutional actors involved in the resettlement and new site development
operations.   In general, the obligation to involve the population in sub-project execution was seen as a
big constraint and, when all was said and done, as a unnecessary one that was being added to the two
major constraints already imposed by the financier, namely:

l   The principle of refraining from moving populations off the site, which in actual practice meant the
    adoption of the preferred `operation-tiroir' formula; and
l   Adherence to a "fixed" roster of beneficiaries, who were counted and placed on a definitive list at the
    beginning of the intervention.

These constraints had a varied but great impact on the conduct of DUCs, operators and consulting firms.


                                            3. Institutional aspects
3.1. Problems associated with adherence to formal and contractual arrangements set out in the
procedural manual:

  Despite its meticulous preparation, the Procedures Manual, which explains the cumbersome
procedures for sub-project preparation and execution and clarifies the relationships between those
involved in the various phases of implementation, seems to adopt an overly optimistic approach with
respect to the involvement of certain actors and the roles assigned to them.

3.2 Field-level coordination issues were often detrimental to project execution:
l   Failure of walis (governors) to assume direct management of local sub-projects, which created
    numerous problems of coordination among the various local sector directorates (e.g., hydraulics,
    environment, agriculture, etc.). This in turn caused substantial delays in their execution.
l   Local governments/communes, although they were crucial stakeholders in the institutional set-up,
    they generally failed to perform the role assigned to them.


3.3 Design and implementation of certain project mechanisms:

  The arrangements that caused the most obvious slippages and perverse effects are, in order of
importance:

l   The exhaustive headcounts of populations living in the sites to be redeveloped: this element
    was definitely very unappealing to local governments. It caused the communes to lose interest in
    resettlement and upgrading sub-projects involving fixed beneficiary lists, and made the site
    development component more attractive, since its more `open' lists left some leeway for local
    cronyism;
l   OD 4.30, which stipulates that populations are not to be displaced and imposes the `
    opérations-tiroir' option: this directive was viewed by all local actors (i.e., DUCs, communes,
    operators, consulting firms, etc.) as a dogmatic and highly impractical constraint, and
l   The mechanism of upfront subsidy financing, with FONAL assistance, which contributed to a
    lax approach to the operators' management of the collection of beneficiary contributions.              It
    demobilized household participation and helped perpetuate the false impression that the project
    would be cost-free.




                                                    - 25 -

                                                  4. Conclusions
 It is undeniable that it introduced a participatory component into low-cost resettlement projects in Algeria
and that it brought about radical changes in the paradigms of slum upgrading. Indeed, the project not
only gave ordinary people involved in urban development a say in activities affecting their surroundings,
and re-activated some surprisingly dynamic community-level remobilization in the affected slums, but it
also gave many managers and technicians a chance to implement and capitalize in several ways on the
"bottom up" methodology promoted by the World Bank.

From this standpoint, and to sum up this final assessment, it appears that the main factors undercutting
the project were not related to any reluctance to participate on the part of the population, but were
due instead to the absence of a clear and unequivocal strategy for slum upgrading on the part of
the public authorities.         Slum dwellers had trouble understanding why these authorities solicited
financial contributions from the poorest while at the same time sending contradictory signals by
promoting, with great media pomp and publicity, cost-free low-income resettlement operations for other,
more affluent population groups.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Results of the Stakeholder Consultation
Nov.3, 2003

A stakeholder consultation was held on Nov.3, 2003 at the Ministry of Housing in Algiers.              This
consultation convened the key actors of the Project: local project teams from three wilayas: Bouira,
Médéa and Oran, composed of representatives of operators (AADL and AFL) and Urban Planning
Department, and local consultants; representatives of Ministry of Housing, CNL, and Support Unit.
Participants presented their own viewpoints on the Project including:                objectives, components,
implementation arrangements, preparation, implementation, difficulties encountered, and results
achieved, based on which, they presented recommendations.               The results of the consultation are
summarized as follows:

(a)       Involvement of the beneficiaries and decentralization of operations among beneficiaries,
communes and wilayas are the necessary conditions for project's success. The beneficiaries were not
consulted during the project's preparation to solicit their involvement in the project. To them, the project
looked like a project « parachuted » down from the Center rather than the one requested by the
communes, nonetheless by the beneficiaries themselves.                This complicated the implementation
arrangements, with the accountability of wilayas not clearly defined.          Wilayas themselves were not
regarded as key players (except only DUCs), as the decision on the implementation was centralized.
This constraint has added to the implementation delays and difficulties not only in mobilizing the
beneficiaries and communes, establishment of beneficiaries lists by the communes, resettlements of
families but also in involving the utilities (sewage, water and electricity).

(b)       Long-term and sustainable policy for actions on treating the slum/low-income housing
neighborhoods is important.       Actions for treating the low-income housing neighborhoods require a long
process, starting from the consultation with the residents, to preparatory studies and then the
implementation.       Therefore this process can take several years (5-6 years, or longer), or can take
several phases. In this sense, it would be preferable to program the operations in phases, or program
and prepare the budget annually, in order to adapt them to possible changes.

(c)       Coherence within the social housing policies is the key. The project suffered from the housing
subsidy policies applied to other government programs, which came up later and were more
advantageous (social housing subsidy of 500,000 DZD compared to 350,000 DZD defined for the
project). This has triggered within the beneficiaries an impression of inequity of treatment, leading to the
loss of interest in the project and their rejection of paying beneficiary contribution.

(d)       Integrated approach in neighborhood upgrading is important. The project suffered from multiples
delays.      Interventions by the utilities (water, electricity, sewerage and roads) to ensure service
connections were delayed.        Also particularly for the resettlements to neighborhoods isolated in the
periphery, ensuring continuation of families' economic activities was deemed important in the social
assessment/survey. However, intervention in this aspect was delayed. This slowed down resettlement
processes and triggered refusal to resettle among some beneficiaries, who preferred staying where their
economic activities already existed.         Delay in connection to basic services networks (water and
electricity) also contributed to the delay in resettlement.

(e)       Flexible and non-bureaucratic approach in project design and implementation, including the
regularization of land tenure.    Each low-income housing neighborhood was a special case with its own
specifics and difficulties.    The methods and the levels of intervention could vary according to the
population, their traditions and livelihood activities. The costs can be influenced by these demographic
and social variables and also by the natures of the sites.         The subsidy should not be rigid but have
flexibility to adapt to the requirements in the field.

(f)       Establishment of the credit/loan systems for the beneficiary contribution could be considered.




                                                      - 27 -

For the construction works, while the beneficiaries had to mobilize funds for the beneficiary contributions
of about 200,000 to 300,000 DZD, which at least costed 25 to 38 months of the national minimum
guaranteed wage. This amount was in disproportion to the beneficiaries' revenues (twice the national
minimum guaranteed wage).       Establishment of the credit systems for beneficiaries could have resolved
this problem and ensured the pre-financing to launch the works, without letting the operators running
after the beneficiaries and communes for funds.

(g)     Tailor-made special training of the teams and participatory approach would facilitate the
implementation is crucial. The project experienced delay in training the teams on social and
environmental aspects.

(h)     Awareness-building and information sharing play a crucial role in ensuring participation of
beneficiaries.

(i)     The project has to be ready before appraisal. The project was not ready enough and it required
more than 18 months of sub-project preparation after the Board's approval and it caused long delay in
the implementation.




                                                  - 28 -

Additional Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's Contribution

Borrower's Contribution

Summary of Borrower's Contribution to ICR

Low Income Housing Project was conceived within the Government's long-term framework for
eradicating slum housing. This conformed to the Government's on-going sectoral strategy that was
based on the following idea:

To reconsider the primacy on the social housing in its approach and diversify the housing and land
supply by motivating the low-income population to financially contribute to their own housing and
incrementally improving them based on the financial capacity.

The principal objective consisted in: improving the living conditions of low-income population residing in
slum or non-serviced housing neighborhoods by providing them with decent and affordable housing and
its ownership.

The following objectives were determined:

1.      Improving the affordability and financing mechanisms for low-income housing;
2.      Increasing direct cost recovery from beneficiaries;
3.      Increasing the efficiency of technical design of low-income housing;
4.      Building capacity within the institutions at the central and local level to deliver their
        responsibilities within the project;
5.      Improving environmental and social policy; and
6.      Strengthening institutional capacity for tenure regularization

Project's implementation required involvement of different actors and their adoption of the Project's
approach and procedures.        The implementation was launched in May 1999 (5 months following the
Effectiveness). At the end of 1999, the first group of sub-projects was identified and documents were
prepared. They were approved upon feasibility studies (APS) on June 14, 2000, while the last group of
sub-projects was approved on Feb.7, 2001. Civil works only started in early 2001.

In spite of the delay in the Project launch and the difficulties experienced during implementation, the
actors involved showed keen interest in pursuing the Project's objectives. The results are as follows:

l   Physical outputs:

While the Project initially targeted benefiting 50,000 households, it achieved benefiting 12,127
households.

l   Improving the affordability and financing mechanisms for low-income housing;

Third of the beneficiary population were the low-income population whose revenue is lower than twice
the national guaranteed minimum wage.

l   Increasing direct cost recovery from beneficiaries;




                                                   - 29 -

Except the resettlement operations, collection of beneficiary contributions for cost recovery has not
achieved the expected results with the following reasons:

    a. Economic vulnerability of the beneficiaries in comparison with the amount and the delay set for
        them;
    b. Competitions with other programs which also targeted the same socio-economic tier of the
        population;
    c. Lack of organized efforts in implementing cost-recovery schemes;
    d. Delay in launching sub-projects;
    e. Lack of experience in/unfamiliarity with this type of operations.

l   Increasing the efficiency of technical design of low-income housing;

l   The site-improvement and housing construction were carried out with costs fairly lower than other
    housing programs and even in consideration of the inflation and the physical constraints of the site.

l   Building capacity within the institutions at the central and local level to deliver their responsibilities
    within the project;

l   Thanks to the interesting approach, which integrates all the aspects needed from conceptualization
    to the implementation in the field, the Project allowed the local counterparts to learn and build on the
    experience on the treatment of slum/low-income housing areas

l   Improving environmental and social policy;

Social and environmental aspects were efficiently integrated in the sub-projects.

Site-improvement responded globally to the environmental regulations/requirements in spite of some
lack see in the off-site environmental works Regulations related to the resettlement of the populations
were respected and their living conditions improved as planned.

l   Strengthening institutional capacity for tenure regularization

The unresolved land price created one of the Project's major constraints. This needed to be resolved in
order to regularize and transfer the title rapidly and efficiently, which could have reactivated the Project.

However, the Project did not achieve the above-mentioned objectives to the expected level, due to the
constraints, which required reorganization of institutional arrangements and financial schemes and the
adaptation to the new vision of the housing sector.

Recommendations

Role of the institutions
The realism should count in the designing of the Project's implementation arrangements by taking into
consideration all the data in the field and the complexities, limitations and contradictions of the field.

Management of the sub-projects through adopting the injunctions by local governments is not productive.


Land regularization
The question on land and its implication on the transfer of the ownership and the establishment of titles
should be dissociated from the implementation planning of the Project.

Improvement in the procedures of the delivery of titles rests on the evolution of the general context of
administration in regards of organizational plan and the material.




                                                     - 30 -

Training

Training of the operators should not be ensured over the Project implementation.      Training should be
forged in daily manner in the implementation in the field through its own challenges and requirements.

Performance of the operators

Resorting to the operators from the private sector instead of the technical services of the sector in
ensuring the supervision of the Project of social nature has clearly influenced the results. In fact, aside
from the lack of experience, their status as the private/commercial sector did not allow them to
accomplish suitably certain tasks, which were entrusted to them. Also, efficiency required over the
institutional arrangements did not meet what was required in the field situation.




                                                  - 31 -

- 32 -

