Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF021148
METAP Grant Agreement
(Environmental Impact Assessment Units - Second Phase)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by
COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES
under the
MEDITERRANEAN ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Dated March 24, 1994
TF021148
METAP GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1994, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank) acting on its own behalf (the Bank) and as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by the COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES 
(CEC) under the MEDITERRANEAN ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (METAP).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank and the European Investment Bank (EIB) have jointly 
prepared an environmental program for the Mediterranean, designed to address the 
environmental policy, institutional and investment-related needs of the Mediterranean 
countries;
WHEREAS (B) the Bank and EIB, pursuant to the aforementioned program, have 
established METAP to strengthen national environmental efforts and promote regional 
cooperation;
WHEREAS (C) pursuant to Memorandum of Understanding dated March 15, 1991 between 
CEC, EIB and the Bank, CEC has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to 
administer grant funds to be made available by CEC to finance technical assistance 
programs under METAP;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient has requested and CEC has agreed to make available to 
the Recipient a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the 
Technical Assistance);
Page  2
WHEREAS (E) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
WHEREAS (F) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in 
the areas of institutional development and environmental engineering.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the term "ECU" means the European 
Currency Unit, the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well as any 
consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01, and the 
term "Association" means the International Development Association.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on April 
1, 1994, and to provide a total of thirteen (13) man-months of service between that 
time and April 30, 1995.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Bank and the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Grant to be provided by CEC for the Technical Assistance shall 
be in an amount of one hundred fifty thousand ECU (ECU 150,000).
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance on a grant 
basis the following expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
Section 2.03. The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of 
the Consultants.
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the 
Bank's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the Bank and 
the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and 
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange 
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the 
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
Page  3
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the 
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants 
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the 
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
     (ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into 
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by 
them;
    (iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become 
the property of the Recipient; and
     (iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and 
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's 
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and 
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories. 
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator or the Bank. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator and the Bank against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising 
out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical 
Assistance, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
the Administrator or the Bank, as the case may be.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, 
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of 
the Bank and the Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. If any 
member of the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to 
him by the Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by such member, 
the Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall 
not unreasonably refuse to act upon such request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and 
consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any 
recommendations made in those reports.
Page  4
Section 4.02. The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports prepared by the 
Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, as the case may be, 
may consider appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement 
between the Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and the 
Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their 
terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the 
contrary. Neither the Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled 
in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of this 
Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of 
Agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence 
in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy 
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any 
claim by any such party against any other such party arising under this Agreement 
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank and the Administrator 
on the one side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed jointly by the Bank and the Administrator; 
a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator 
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the 
parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the International Court of 
Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations. If either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with 
this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall 
be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the 
original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such 
original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the 
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
Page  5
and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply 
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank, the Administrator and the Recipient 
shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the Bank and the 
Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other. Any question concerning 
the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of 
such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this 
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party arising 
thereunder.
(k)
If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award shall have been 
delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with, any party may: (i) 
enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of 
competent jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by  
execution; or (iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for 
the enforcement of the award and the provisions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of 
the award against any party that is a member of the Bank except as such procedure may 
be available otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed 
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted 
to be given or made at such party's address specified in this Agreement or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the 
Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds for the Technical Assistance if any of the following circumstances shall have 
occurred and be continuing: 
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest 
or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or 
guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, or (ii) under any development 
credit Agreement between the Recipient and the Association, or (iii) in consequence of 
any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any 
third party with the agreement of the Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or 
any development credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any guarantee 
agreement with the Bank.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the 
Page  6
Administrator, as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its 
purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by 
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
Section 6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further 
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator 
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01. The officials responsible for the implementation of this Agreement 
shall be:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Economy
Ministry of Economy
Zighout Youssef Palace
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria
Telex:
67073
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Nourredine Zerhouni
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
      of the Grant
By /s/ Daniel Ritchie
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in (i) the 
preparation of operational directives and work plans for the environmental inspection 
offices of the Wilayas of Annaba and Skikda (the "Regional Offices"); (ii) the 
development of a suitable methodology for carrying out environmental impact 
assessments; and (iii) the identification in the private sector of training needs in 
the field of environmental impact assessment.
The Technical Assistance consists of the following activities, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time 
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out an institutional program to strengthen the Regional Offices, such 
program to consist of (i) the definition of the functions of the Regional Offices; 
(ii) the preparation of an organizational chart therefor; (iii) the assessment of 
their staff requirements and equipment needs; and (iv) the development of annual 
plans, budgets, and operational and environmental procedures and directives.
Part B:
Training Programs
Designing and carrying out training programs for the staff of the Directorate of 
Environment of the Recipient and of the Regional Offices, as well as for local private 
sector consulting firms and technical staff of local industrial enterprises, on the 
implementation and supervision of environmental impact assessments, and the monitoring 
and enforcement of recommendations thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment
and Counterpart Personnel to be Made
Available by the Recipient
For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the Recipient shall make 
available to the Consultants, free of charge, the following:
(a)
any and all technical studies previously prepared by, or on behalf of, 
the Recipient related, directly or indirectly, to the Technical Assistance;
(b)
any and all reports and statistical data compiled by the Recipient's 
national agencies related, directly or indirectly, to the Technical Assistance;
(c)
official governmental documentation, including the Recipient's national 
and local laws and regulations relating to environmental and ecological protection;
(d)
data on the organizational and financial structure of all of the 
Recipient's national and local agencies involved in the management or administration 
of natural resources and pollution control; and
(e)
counterpart personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Bank and the Consultants.
Page  8
