Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4361-AL
Loan Agreement
(Low-Income Housing Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 9, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4361-AL 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1998, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 23, 1998, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to further develop 
the Borrower’s low-income housing sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Banque d’Algerie" means the Bank of Algeria, the central bank of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law No. 90-10 of the Borrower, dated 
April 14, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(b)
"CNL" means the Borrower’s National Housing Fund (Caisse Nationale du 
Logement), a public enterprise established and operating under the supervision of MOH 
(as this term is hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 91-144, 
dated May 12, 1991, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(c)
"Developer" means an entity, selected by the local directorates of MOH 
pursuant to criteria agreed upon with the Bank, which MOH, through CNL, shall entrust 
with the management and execution of a Sub-Project (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) under Part A of the Project in accordance with the provisions of a Site 
Development Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined);
(d)
"FONAL" means the Borrower’s National Assistance Housing Fund (Fonds 
National au Logement), established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 94-218, dated 
July 23, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"MOH" means the Ministry of Housing of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto;
(f)
"Process Guidance Framework" means the policy framework acceptable to the 
Bank, prepared by the Borrower and transmitted to the Bank on April 4, 1998, for 
environmental and social impact assessment of Sub-projects (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) to be carried out under Part A of the Project which, inter alia, 
outlines the procedures to be followed for purposes of conducting an environmental 
impact assessment, and sets out a resettlement and rehabilitation framework and a 
public consultation process;
(g)
"Project Area" means the Wilayas (as this term is hereinafter defined) of 
Algiers, Oran, Constantine, Annaba, Blida and Tipaza, and such other Wilayas as may be 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(h)
"Site Development Agreement" means a tripartite agreement, acceptable to 
the Bank, entered into among CNL, the local directorates of MOH and a Developer in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph II.B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement for 
the purposes of carrying-out a Sub-Project (as this term is hereinafter defined) under 
Part A of the Project;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
"SU" means the Support Unit to be established in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Sub-project" means a specific project to be carried out under Part A of 
the Project whose objective shall be (i) the rehabilitation of service infrastructure 
and dwellings in an urban slum; (ii) the provision of service infrastructure to a 
non-serviced low-income neighborhood; or (iii) the development of a new site through 
the provision of service infrastructure, including water and power, and the 
construction of roads, sewerage systems and drainage systems; and
(l)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Wilaya Law (Loi Relative a la Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated 
April 7, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million  Dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Page  3
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banque d’Algerie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. CNL is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, economic, engineering, social and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  4
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or any significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition of 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have published in its official gazette a 
Decree, satisfactory to the Bank, amending Decree No. 95/175 of June 24, 1995, and 
providing FONAL with the capacity to finance the development of low-income housing 
sites.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  5
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Ramtane Lamamra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount
of the Loan
   % of
Allocated in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars        
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for
142,500,000
80%
Sub-projects under
Part A of the  Project
(2)
Goods under
          300,000
100% of foreign
Part B.1 of the Project
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
Page  6
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants'
services and
training
(a) under Part B.1
  1,400,000
100%
of the Project
(b) under Part B.2
  1,600,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
  4,200,000
           TOTAL
      150,000,000
                                  ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$15,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) (a) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) works under contracts costing 
less than $750,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
$350,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the living 
conditions of residents of urban slums and non-serviced neighborhoods in the Project 
Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Housing and Infrastructure
Carrying out a program in the Project Area to provide affordable housing and 
service infrastructure to households in urban slums and non-serviced informal 
neighborhoods, and develop sites and services for low-income households construction.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Support to CNL, through the provision of goods, expert services and training, to 
upgrade the human resource functions and management capacities at CNL.
2.
Support to MOH, through the provision of (i) training to the staff of MOH’s 
local directorates in Sub-project preparation and management, and environmental 
assessment and monitoring; (ii) expert services to prepare a study into the fiscal 
resources of local governments; (iii) expert services to assist MOH in managing the 
Project and coordinating its implementation; and (iv) expert services for assisting 
Page  7
MOH in setting-up a housing database.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of Section 2.05 of this Agreement, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
Page  8
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii) the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for 
such Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November, 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly  
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Page  9
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement 
Procedures for Goods under Part B of the Project and Works under Part A of the 
Project
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided for under paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part B, respectively, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$350,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$750,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  10
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for training under Part B.2 of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts B.1, B.2 (i) and B.2 (iii) of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
I.
Project Implementation, Management and Coordination
 
The Borrower shall vest MOH with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project.  In order to ensure proper management and coordination 
of the Project, the Borrower shall establish SU, not later than December 31, 1998, 
with professional staffing in adequate number, whose qualifications and experience 
shall be acceptable to the Bank, for purposes, inter alia, of assisting MOH in the 
preparation of Sub-project documentation and monitoring of Sub-projects’ execution.
II.
Part A of the Project
A.
Sub-Project Eligibility Criteria
1.
In order to achieve the objectives of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank pursuant to which MOH shall (a) select, 
Page  11
through the different Directorates of Urban Development within MOH, sites in the 
Project Area to be developed under Part A of the Project; and, in connection with each 
such selected site (b) furnish, for the Bank’s approval, a Sub-project summary which 
shall, inter alia (i) describe the site’s perimeter, the quality of housing 
construction thereon, if any, the condition of the site’s infrastructure and the 
prevailing environmental conditions on the site; (ii) certify that a census of the 
population living on the site has been carried out; (iii) provide a descriptive 
analysis of the Sub-project‘s beneficiaries; (iv) articulate the social objectives of 
the Sub-project; and (v) provide an estimate of the Sub-project’s financing 
requirements.
2.
Sub-projects for which initial approval by the Bank shall have been granted in 
accordance with the criteria described in paragraph A.1 above shall be eligible to be 
financed under Part A of the Project (a) upon the provision to the Bank by MOH, in 
connection with a Sub-project approved as described above, of a preliminary plan 
detailing, inter alia, the Sub-project’s infrastructure construction costs, the 
Sub-project’s housing construction costs (for those Sub-projects requiring housing 
construction) and the Sub-project’s engineering designs, together with appropriate 
maps; and (b) provided each of the following additional criteria has been met to the 
satisfaction of the Bank:
(i)
that the implementation of the Sub-project be carried out in 
accordance with the environmental standards and conditions set 
forth in the Process Guidance Framework. To that end, MOH shall 
furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, 
showing that the carrying out of the Sub-project in respect of 
which financing under Part A of the Project is requested shall 
comply with the standards and conditions provided for in the 
Process Guidance Framework, such evidence to include, inter alia, 
an environmental impact assessment, a public consultation process 
and, where applicable, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan for 
affected persons, all on the basis of the principles and 
procedures specified in the Process Guidance Framework;
(ii)
that the Bank receive from MOH an economic assessment of the 
Sub-project, together with a cost-benefit analysis therefor, 
demonstrating, in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the 
Bank, the economic benefits of the Sub-project; and
(iii)
that the Bank receive a Site Development Agreement, in draft form, 
containing the principal terms and conditions provided for under 
paragraph II.B of this Schedule and setting out a detailed 
financing plan for the Sub-project, together with proposed cost 
recovery arrangements therefor.
B.
Site Development Agreements: Principal Terms and Conditions
1.
A Site Development Agreement shall establish the Developer’s obligation (a) to 
carry out the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices; (b) to 
procure works required for the carrying out of the Sub-project in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) to 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and 
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practices.
2.
A Site Development Agreement shall (a) set out procedures, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to monitor, against specific outcome indicators, the carrying out by Developers 
of Sub-projects and the achievement of the objectives of Part A of the Project; (b) 
describe the steps and measures necessary to ensure that, upon completion of a 
Sub-project involving housing construction, appropriate land titles shall be delivered 
to beneficiaries pre-identified pursuant to the provisions of paragraph II. A. 1 of 
this Schedule; and (c) provide for MOH or its representatives’ right to (i) inspect, 
by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, 
the works and construction carried out under the Sub-project, the operation thereof 
and any relevant records and documents; (ii) obtain from the Developer all such 
information as the Bank, through the Borrower, or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing provisions of the Site Development Agreement, and to 
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Developer and to any 
relevant records and equipment; and (iii) suspend or terminate the rights of the 
Developer under the Site Development Agreement upon failure by such Developer to 
perform its obligations under the Site Development Agreement.
Page  12
C.
Procedures
1.
No expenditures for works required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for 
financing under Part A of the Project unless said Sub-project shall have been approved 
by the Bank in accordance with the eligibility criteria provided for under paragraph 
II.A of this Schedule.
2.
When presenting a Sub-project to the Bank for approval, MOH, through CNL, shall 
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with 
(a) a description of the Developer; (b) an appraisal of the Sub-project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; (c) a copy of the Site Development Agreement, including annexes thereto, signed 
by all three parties thereto; and (d) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
3.
Applications made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs C.1 and C.2 above 
shall be presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 2001.
III.
Part B.1 of the Project
The Borrower shall cause CNL (a) not later than December 31, 1998, to prepare 
and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, a draft recruitment plan, 
together with a draft plan to strengthen CNL’s internal audit function and a draft 
training program to strengthen the capabilities of CNL’s staff in financial and 
project management, and shall, following an exchange of views with the Bank with 
respect to said plans and program, adopt such plans and program, not later than June 
30, 1999, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon; and (b) not later than June 
30, 1999, ensure that (i) a suitable electronic database identifying the households 
beneficiaries of the Borrower’s housing assistance program is installed and operating; 
and (ii) a suitable computerized information system is installed and operating in 
CNL’s offices in each of Algiers, Annaba, Oran and Constantine, not later than June 
30, 2000.
IV.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable 
to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and (c) review with the Bank, by June 
30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) (a) and (3) 
(b) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures made or to be made in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of outstanding special commitments entered into by 
Page  13
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed $40,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the eligible Categories, and in the 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  14
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
