                                                                                                         93763
Moldova: Promoting Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness
                                                                                                       April 20, 2012

 




    Moldova: Promoting Sustainable Growth and Competitiveness


Synopsis
Facing the need for a sustainable growth strategy, Moldova has been working with the
International Development Association (IDA) to address its main development challenges
through increased economic competitiveness, promotion of human development and social
inclusion, and increased effectiveness of the public sector.

   Full Brief—5 Pages
Promoting Sustainable Growth and Competititveness—PDF




Challenge                                                MULTIMEDIA
Moldova is a small land-locked agricultural
country with a population of 3.6 million and a
gross domestic product (GDP) of US$ 5.8 billion
(2010). Remittances play a central role in the
economy and amount to almost one-fourth of
GDP. The country imports nearly all of its energy
resources and is working on reducing its
consumption by promoting projects to increase
efficiency. Other challenges include improving
public sector efficiency and effectiveness, and
further enhancing the business environment.
Major sources of growth—export, remittances             MORE
and investments—were severely undermined in
                                                          Building a Better Business Environment in
2009 due to the global economic crisis.                   Moldova
Remittances fell by 37.4 percent in 2009, but
                                                          Equipping Moldova to Respond to Infectious
rebounded to near pre-crisis levels by 2011.
                                                          Disease Outbreaks (Avian Flu)
However the challenge remains to retain these
                                                          Ridding Moldovan Communities of Toxic
within the formal financial sector for further
                                                          Chemicals
intermediation to SMEs. Crisis and pre-election
spending also opened an unsustainable fiscal              Better Health Care for Moldovans
deficit of 6.3 percent of GDP in 2009. Given the
uncertain external environment, the country
cannot rely only on migration to drive its future growth. A
second growth engine needs to come from revitalizing and
                                                                        More Results
diversifying exports.
Prone to natural disasters, Moldova faced severe drought in
2007 and devastating floods in 2008 and 2010. The floods
caused the displacement of population, destruction of
transport, social infrastructure and housing, and loss of crops
                                                                     1,700
                                                                     new businesses and 7,000 new
and livestock. The effects of climate change will likely lead to     jobs created in the agriculture
an increase in the severity and frequency of weather-                sector since 2007
induced disasters. Economic difficulties are complicated by
political volatility and civil conflict in the breakaway region of


                                                                     40,000
Transnistria.

Approach
                                                                     poor households targeted
Country strategies in Moldova have supported                         through social assistance
                                                                     programs
implementation of the reforms agenda to establish self-
sustaining growth based on increased competitiveness,
particularly in agriculture; emergence of a service sector; and
improving the country's human resources. In 1997, Moldova            MORE INFORMATION
became an IDA-only country, with much of the assistance
                                                                      The World Bank in Moldova
focused on the infrastructure and human development. A
community-driven development approach has been used to                Government of Moldova
direct IDA support to local interventions in areas with the           Ministry of Finance
highest concentration of poverty. In combination, IDA-
                                                                      European Commission
supported activities helped Moldova improve the quality of
and access to social services, such as healthcare, education,         USAID
and social protection, and significantly reduced the spread of        United Nations
AIDS. This approach has also allowed IDA to help Moldova
improve and strengthen community infrastructure.                      Swedish International
                                                                      Development Agency
IDA has also helped the government's efforts to eliminate
bottlenecks to growth, in particular, through improvements in
trade facilitation and the business environment. Several
notable ways IDA has helped strengthen the private sector
are through simplifying business registration and licensing
procedures, upgrading the quality of infrastructure, and supplying affordable long-term financing
to export-oriented businesses. A 2006 law has mandated a review of all existing legislation and
developed the capacity for applying regulatory impact assessment methodology to new
legislation.
Moldova has an active dialogue with IDA, which has resulted not only in steady IDA
commitment, but also greater support from and involvement by other donors.

Results
The Social Investment Fund (MSIF) is one of Moldova's greatest development successes in
helping to empower poor communities and vulnerable populations to manage their development
needs. About 932,000 people (over a quarter of the country's population) have benefited from
MSIF subprojects since their inception in 1998. For example, student attendance increased by
5 percent during winter as a result of the installation of central heating. During 2009-2011,
additional financing in the amount of US$ 20 million has generated around 100,000 person-
days of employment in poor rural areas of Moldova most hit by the global economic crisis.
The Health Services and Social Assistance Project was launched in 2007. To date it has
contributed to the renovation of 39 primary healthcare centers in rural areas of Moldova, of
which 15 became autonomous. The funding system in all hospitals has been reformed and
contracting healthcare service providers is now more efficient. The Ministry of Health embarked
upon improved and evidence-based policy making through the institutionalization of National
Health Accounts, development of policy studies, and a feasibility study for the oncology
institute. An automated social assistance information system is being developed for the Ministry
of Labor, Social Protection, and Family to maintain records of beneficiaries and persons
requiring social services.
The Strengthening the Effectiveness of Social Safety Nets Project is helping 40,000 poor
households receive means-tested targeted social assistance as part of the Ajutor Social
program. Improving the efficiency of safety-net budgets is a key priority of the project, which
started in September 2011.
The Education for All—Fast-Track Initiative Project supported renovation of 65
kindergartens and provision of teaching materials to 600 preschool institutions—42 percent of
the national total between 2006 and 2011.
The Competitiveness Enhancement Project (CEP) has so far assisted over 170 companies
to improve quality standards, leading to increases in product quality and improved sales. The
CEP credit line provided working capital and investment financing to over 50 exporting
companies, for a total amount of nearly US$ 23 million. The project also supports regulatory
framework reform and over the last five years has helped reduce compliance costs for
enterprises by 35 percent. Moldova jumped 18 places in the Doing Business 2012 rankings,
from 99 in 2011 to 81 in 2012. It ranked second as a global reformer and implemented reforms
in starting a business, getting credit, enforcing contracts, and resolving insolvency.
The Rural Investment and Services Project assisted in the creation of 1,700 new
businesses in high-value agriculture, livestock, and small industries, creating 7,000 new jobs
starting from 2007. Over 400,000 farmers are benefiting from high quality services of the
national agricultural extension agency.
The Energy-2 Project implemented since 2004 has improved heat availability (from 0-30 days
a year to the entire winter season) in almost 35 social institutions and 37 residential buildings.
Improved heating has benefitted 8,400 students, almost one million patients/staff/visitors, and
2,200 families whose apartment buildings were connected to new boilers.
IDA supported greater efficiency of the public sector through the ongoing Public Financial
Management (PFM) Project and Public Administration Reform Project . The latter facilitated
consolidation of the central public administration bodies around key policy areas (the number of
ministries was cut from 29 to 24, the number of government agencies from 16 to 8). The
reform also helped increase capacities of the ministries' policy units to elaborate priorities and
align them with the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework supported through the PFM Project.

Bank Contribution
IDA efforts are aimed at helping Moldova address crisis and development needs. Lending
in FY12 includes additional financing for the Health Services and Social Assistance Project
(US$ 10.2 million) to support the country’s primary health care system; the Moldova e-
Transformation Project (US$ 20 million) to transform delivery of public services using improved
information and communications technology; the Strengthening the Effectiveness of the Social
Safety Net Project (US$ 37 million), which aims to improve the efficiency and equity of
Moldova’s safety net through a fiscally sustainable expansion and strengthening of the Ajutor
Social Program; the Disaster and Climate Risk Management Project (US$ 10 million), which
aims to strengthen national capacity in preparing for and responding to natural disasters; and a
US$ 20 million Development Policy Operation supporting Moldova’s competitiveness and
economic growth agenda.
IDA is the leading external source of economic and social analysis. Recent analytical work
includes a Country Economic Memorandum, a Country Procurement Assessment Report, a
District Heating Restructuring Study, and a Public Expenditure Review. The Bank prepared
Policy Notes on key economic and social challenges to address the impact of the economic
crisis. These Notes were instrumental in the preparation of the government’s Economic
Stabilization and Recovery Plan.

Partners
IDA has leveraged financing and reforms through partnerships with other
developmentagencies. The March 2010 Consultative Group meeting organized by the Bank
and the European Union (EU) raised US$ 2.6 billion in donor support for 2010-2013. The
Rural Investment Support Project and the Moldova Social Investment Fund attracted the
support of other donors (DFID, EC, GEF, Germany’s development bank Kreditanstalt für
Wiederaufbau (KfW), Netherlands, Sida, Switzerland, the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)), with additional
financing of US$ 24 million and US$ 36.4 million respectively. Following World Bank assistance
to the government to develop the Land Transport Infrastructure Strategy, IDA became the lead
donor for the roads sector, providing a US$ 16 million credit, and the Strategy has attracted
parallel financing from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the
European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Commission (EC) and Millennium Challenge
Corporation (MCC) totaling US$ 450 million. DFID, the Netherlands, and Sida have looked to
the World Bank to administer multi-donor trust funds for Central Public Administration Reform
and support to the Supreme Audit Institution. These partners have also provided US$ 5.5
million as co-financing to the on-going Public Financial Management Project (US$ 8.5 million
IDA). In preparation of the Policy Notes on key economic and social challenges to address the
impact of the economic crisis the Bank partnered with the EC, UN, DFID, Sida and the IMF,
who were listed as co-authors.

Moving Forward
The global financial crisis underscored the need for Moldova to accelerate reforms. Part of the
Bank’s role is providing support to ensure that, in the face of fiscal stress and resultant
spending cuts, the vulnerable are protected, the economy is further liberalized, and the
business regulatory environment is improved. The World Bank will continue to take advantage
of the opportunity opened up by increasing fiscal pressures to help improve the efficiency of
budget allocations and more broadly to deepen reforms and articulate the medium-term growth
strategy. In the short-run, the World Bank’s work with government and other partners will
continue to support key priorities aimed at: enhancing economic competitiveness; developing
human resources, enhancing employment, and promoting social inclusion; and improving
governance and addressing corruption, including improved public sector efficiency and
effectiveness.

Beneficiaries
Petru Ialanji manages the Vulcanesti Electricity Plant in a small rural community in southern
Moldova. The substation once transferred massive amounts of electricity along the Soviet grid
and also generated thousands of pounds of some of the world's most hazardous chemicals,
which Moldova had to clean up after the Soviet Union collapsed. But, what was once a
dumping ground for toxic pollutants where human beings could not venture without wearing a
breathing mask is now a placid field where you can smell blooms on rows of newly planted
trees.
"We managed to clean up the plant and generate some revenues from the sale of scrapped
metal," said Ialanji. "Today, this facility looks completely different, orderly and green."
With funding from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and other donors, the Persistent
Organic Pollutants Cleanup Project supported by the World Bank tackled the chemicals and
polluted equipment at Vulcanesti and other sites.
Victor Morgun, the General Director of Cartnord, a cardboard and paper company, is one of
the beneficiaries of the World Bank-supported Competitiveness Enhancement Project, which
aims to help the government position Moldova as a competitor in outside markets and a
desirable investment destination by enhancing Moldova's private sector through improvements
in access to finance and higher standards and quality. Cartnord company secured a US$
200,000 loan of working capital to help it purchase high quality raw materials and cater to more
demanding customers.
"We succeeded in increasing our output and today we sell more and better quality products to
companies in Moldova and other countries in the region," said Morgun. He says the World
Bank's credit line has helped Cartnord focus on quality and grow as a business. They now
employ 200 staff and have well established business relations with companies in Europe and
the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Six Moldovan banks have been competitively selected under the project to provide low interest
loans to Moldovan exporters. To date 49 companies have accessed loans to improve
production and boost sales.
