Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4661-SL 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 3, 2009  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4661-SL 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 3, 2009 entered into between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA 
LEONE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
—FINANCING 
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount  
equivalent to six million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 6,400,000) (vario
usly, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI
—REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
 
Treasury Building 
 George 
Street
 
Freetown 
 Sierra 
Leone 
Facsimile: 
232 22 228 4726 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED in Washington, DC, District of Columbia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By/s/ Ibrahim S. Conteh 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By/s/ Antonella Bassani 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
ensured that the variance in expenditure composition in 2008 for the 20 largest budget 
heads has not exceeded the overall deviation in domestic primary expenditures by more 
than 10 percentage points, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 60 of the  
Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
   met the following benchmarks: (a) at least 29 public entities have produced procurement 
plans for 2009 for approval by the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development or other appropriate statutory body; and (b) the share of total procurement 
that was conducted through open competition is at least 30 percent of the total of 
procurements above the national small purchase threshold, whether the share is defined in 
terms of number of procurements or value of procurements, for at least 23 entities with 
approved procurement plans for 2008, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
66 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
3. 
ensured that the Recipient’s Human Resource Management Office has demonstrably 
discharged its responsibilities for the recruitment, promotion, and retirement of civil 
service staff in grades 1–5 between September 2008 and September 2009, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 67 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
4. 
ensured that the budgetary funds actually transferred to local councils in the first three 
quarters of 2008, expressed as a share of total discretionary non-salary, non-interest 
recurrent spending, have not deviated by more than 3 percentage points from  
the budgeted share, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 69 of the  
Letter of Development Policy; and 
5. 
ensured that the revenue collection of the Recipient’s National Power Authority has 
improved by implementing a tariff increase in the second half of 2008, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 70 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  7
6
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
6,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,400,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is July 15, 2010. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 15 and August 15: 
 
commencing February 15, 2020 to and including 
August 15, 2029 
1% 
commencing February 15, 2030 to and including 
August 15, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges),  
non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  10
9
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
3. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter from the Recipient to the Association 
dated October 13, 2009, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  11
10 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
