Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5163 
Operation Name 
Sierra Leone: Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (80%); General industry and trade 
sector (10%); Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P107335 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Contact Person:  Samura Kamara,  
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
Tel: 232-22-228-616 
 
232-22-225-826 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl
 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 21, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 28, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 24, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Sierra Leone has made rapid progress on many fronts since the end of the war in January 2002 
but more will be needed to raise per-capita incomes beyond peak pre-war levels and sharply 
reduce poverty.  Macroeconomic performance through 2008 has been consistently strong, 
bringing rapid growth and steadily declining fiscal deficits through 2007.  The quality of public 
financial management has steadily improved, with all key recommendations of the 2002 CFAA 
having been implemented.  Public service delivery was quickly resumed in several sectors, most 
strongly in primary education.  Decentralization of public services through the re-establishment 
of local government became policy in February 2004 and the May 2004 elections for local 
governments were the first in over 30 years.  The first full PRSP was issued in February 2005.  
These achievements ultimately helped Sierra Leone gain access to substantial debt relief in 
December 2006 via the HIPC Completion Point and Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative.  General 
elections were held in the fall of 2007.  Following the transition to a new government, the second 
PRSP was adopted in June 2009. 
 
The proposed operation takes place at a very challenging time, as the Sierra Leonean authorities 
deal with an unfavorable global environment, which sharply contrast with its generally positive 
post-conflict prospects.  The global economic down-turn has weakened economic prospects for 
2009 and is putting pressure on the fiscal position.  The mining sector has been particularly hard 
hit with declines in world market prices, delayed investments, and scaled back production.  
Remittances are also projected to fall in 2009.  Real GDP growth is projected to slow to 4 
percent compared to an earlier forecast of 5.5 percent, and revenues are expected to fall short of 
the original budget target mainly because of declining exports and imports and weaker income 
growth. 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit is a one-tranche development policy 
operation of US$10 million equivalent meant to be disbursed into t
he
government’s 2009 budget.  
It is designed to help the Government implement its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) in the 
context of a framework for multi-donor budget support (MDBS). 
 
The operation includes reform measures in support of the following development objectives:  (i) 
preserve the fiscal space needed for poverty reduction; (ii) promote efficiency, transparency and 
accountability in the use of public resources through enhanced public financial management and 
governance; and (iii) improve the investment climate by ensuring the provision of electricity in a 
fiscally sustainable manner.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The measures supported by the proposed GRGC-3 are expected to have a significant positive 
impact on poverty reduction.  By undertaking program actions aimed at preserving adequate 
fiscal space for poverty reducing programs, the government will be better positioned to deliver 
key public services even if revenues and grants fall short of targets.  The strengthening of public 
financial management would enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public 
investments and service delivery.  Such measures would also increase the country’s absorption 
capacity for external resources.  Also, the support provided to the decentralization of public 
services should contribute to reduce inequality. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
Total 10 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this operation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance. To facilitate program implementation and the coordination of activities, the government 
has appointed an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance and 
Economic Development.  This Committee is composed of key Ministers and the Governor of the 
BSL.  The Steering Committee will be assisted by a Technical Committee comprising high level 
staff from various line ministries and the BSL.  The Technical Committee will be chaired by the 
Financial Secretary and will be responsible for coordinating the activities of all government 
agencies involved in program implementation. 
 
Page  3
6. Risks 
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation, but 
measures are being taken to mitigate them.  These include:  (i) macroeconomic shocks; (ii) weak 
institutional capacity and corruption; and (iii) government’s commitment to sustain the 
implementation of the reform program. 
 
Risks from exogenous shocks are significant. These include a prolongation of the global 
recession, another rapid rise in international commodity prices for food or fuel, a further decline 
in the country’s export prices, or new and unavoidable expenditure obligations.  There is a small 
associated risk that the authorities might seek to finance a stimulus package through inflationary 
money creation if other resources are not available.  The risks created by such shocks to 
macroeconomic stability and PRS implementation are mitigated by the Government’s track 
record of satisfactory macroeconomic performance and ongoing intense dialogue of the IMF, the 
World Bank and the multi-donor budget support donors with the Government on macroeconomic 
policies and the reform program.  In addition, the Bank will continue to monitor the impact of 
the global recession and assess the need for further support, such as the planned expansion of the 
cash for work program.  
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The measures supported by the proposed GRGC-3 are expected to have a significant positive 
direct impact on poverty reduction.  No adverse social or poverty impacts are expected from the 
prior actions supported by the proposed credit.  First, the strengthening of public financial 
management would enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public investments 
and service delivery.  Such measures would also increase the country’s absorption capacity for 
external resources.  Second, the support provided to the decentralization of public services 
should have the effect of reducing inequality.  Indeed, the data from the 2003/04 household 
survey and pilot CWIQ show that the districts outside the Western Area, where the capital of 
Freetown is located, generally suffer higher levels of poverty and reduced levels of public 
services.  Data from the 2007 and 2008 Service Delivery Perception Surveys suggest there have 
been moderate gains in the quality of educational and health services in many districts.  Yet, 
there is clear room for improvement:  the 2008 Poverty Diagnostic finds that educational services 
remain pro-rich when adjusted for the quality of teachers while cost remains an obstacle to health 
care for many of the poor.  Third, the Poverty Diagnostic finds that the increase in the 2008 
electricity tariff could be pro-poor if it results in the release of resources that could be better 
targeted to the poor through other poverty reducing programs.  There are two reasons for this.  
First, the poor have very little access to publicly provided electricity.  Most of the access is found 
in the capital city, Freetown, and the distribution of access is highly biased away from the poor:  
only 1.6 percent of the poorest households have access to electricity while 10 percent of the 5th 
decile have access.  Second, the current budgetary allocation for fuel for emergency power was 
the single largest item in the 2008 budget largely because the tariff was insufficient to cover 
operating costs.  This denied resources to other, better targeted, poverty reducing programs.  (A 
Poverty and Social Impact Assessment will be conducted to examine the impact of the planned 
introduction of a cost-based, formula driven electricity tariff after low cost power becomes 
available from the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Project.)  In 2009, the electricity tariff increase 
Page  4
allowed the NPA to transfer approximately Le 10 billion to the central government budget in the 
first half of the year.  This is the equivalent of 6 percent of the budget for pro-poor HIPC 
priorities in the first half of the year.  
 
The specific actions supported by the proposed GRGC-3 are not likely to have significant 
positive or negative effects on Sierra Leone’s environment, forests or other natural resources.   
Specifically, the measures supported by the proposed operation to preserve the fiscal space 
needed for poverty reduction and enhance public financial management and governance, 
including decentralization, are not expected to have a negative effect on the country’s 
environment and natural resources.  The potential environmental effects stem from the electricity 
tariff increase if they lead to a sustained increase in carbon emissions.   
 
Household survey data show that the vast majority of the population does not use electricity for 
lighting or cooking.  According to the PRSP II, 91 percent of households use kerosene for 
lighting, while only 2.7 percent use public electricity for lighting.  According to the PRSP II, 85 
percent of households use firewood for cooking, 14 percent use charcoal, and almost none use 
public electricity.  In view of these data, any short-run changes in lighting or cooking patterns 
that might result from a temporarily higher electricity tariff would be quite small and would not 
result in any significant environmental impacts.  Conversely, the sustained provision of 
affordable hydroelectricity would, over the long-run, induce a shift in lighting and cooking 
preferences towards electrical appliances that would have a substantially lower carbon-footprint 
than kerosene or charcoal. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Douglas Addison 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-1188 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Daddison@worldbank.org
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
