Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  
 AB5162 
 
Project Name 
Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit 
Region Africa 
Sector 
General public administration (50%); Sub-national government 
administration (30%); General industry (20%) 
Project ID 
P107335 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Contact Person:  Samura Kamara,  
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
Tel: 232-22-228-616 
 
232-22-225-826 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl  
Date PID Prepared 
August 18, 2009 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 17, 2009 
The proposed Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit is a one-tranche development policy operation of 
US$10 million.  It is designed to help the Government implement its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) in the 
context of a framework for multi-donor budget support (MDBS). 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Sierra Leone has made rapid progress on many fronts since the end of the war in January 2002 but more will be 
needed to raise per-capita incomes beyond peak pre-war levels and sharply reduce poverty.  Macroeconomic 
performance through 2008 has been consistently strong, bringing rapid growth and steadily declining fiscal 
deficits through 2007.  The quality of public financial management has steadily improved, with all key 
recommendations of the 2002 CFAA having been implemented.  Public service delivery was quickly resumed in 
several sectors, most strongly in primary education.  Decentralization of public services through the re-
establishment of local government became policy in February 2004 and the May 2004 elections for local 
governments were the first in over 30 years.  The first full PRSP was issued in February 2005.  These 
achievements ultimately helped Sierra Leone gain access to substantial debt relief in December 2006 via the HIPC 
Completion Point and Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative.  General elections were held in the fall of 2007.  
Following the transition to a new government, the second PRSP was adopted in June 2009. 
 
The proposed operation takes place at a very challenging time, as the Sierra Leonean authorities deal with an 
unfavorable global environment, which sharply contrast with its generally positive post-conflict prospects.  The 
global economic down-turn has weakened economic prospects for 2009 and is putting pressure on the fiscal 
position.  The mining sector has been particularly hard hit with declines in world market prices, delayed 
investments, and scaled back production.  Remittances are also projected to fall significantly in 2009.  Real GDP 
growth is projected to slow to 4 percent compared to an earlier forecast of 5.5 percent, and revenues are expected 
to fall short of initial projections mainly because of declining exports and imports and weaker income growth. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The operation includes reform measures in support of the following development objectives:  (i) preserve the 
fiscal space needed for poverty reduction; (ii) promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of 
Page  2
public resources through enhanced public financial management and governance; and (iii) improve the investment 
climate by ensuring the provision of electricity in a fiscally sustainable manner.   
 
Page  3
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The measures supported by the proposed GRGC-3 are expected to have a significant positive impact on poverty 
reduction.  By undertaking program actions aimed at preserving adequate fiscal space for poverty reducing 
programs, the government will be better positioned to deliver key public services even if revenues and grants fall 
short of targets.  The strengthening of public financial management would enhance efficiency, transparency and 
accountability in public investments and service delivery.  Such measures would also increase the country’s 
absorption capacity for external resources.  Ensuring the provision of electricity in a fiscally sustainable manner 
should help improve the investment climate. 
 
4.    Environmental aspects 
 
IDA has determined that the specific actions supported under the proposed GRGC-3 are expected to have a 
benign or no significant negative direct effect on Sierra Leone’s environment and natural resources.  Specifically, 
the measures supported by the proposed operation to preserve the fiscal space needed for poverty reduction and 
enhance public financial management and governance, including decentralization, are not expected to have a 
negative direct effect on the country’s environment and natural resources.  The potential environmental effects 
stem from the temporary increase in the electricity tariff if they lead to a sustained increase in carbon emissions.  
The imminent arrival of low cost hydroelectric power will, however, allow a substantially lower tariff in the near 
future. 
 
Household survey data show that the vast majority of the population does not use electricity for lighting or 
cooking.  According to the PRSP II, 91 percent of households use kerosene for lighting, while only 2.7 percent 
use public electricity for lighting.  According to the PRSP II, 85 percent of households use firewood for cooking, 
14 percent use charcoal, and almost none use public electricity.  In view of these data, any short-run changes in 
lighting or cooking patterns that might result from a temporarily higher electricity tariff would be quite small and 
would not result in any significant environmental impacts.  Conversely, the sustained provision of affordable 
hydroelectricity would, over the long-run, induce a shift in lighting and cooking preferences towards electrical 
appliances that would have a substantially lower carbon-footprint than kerosene or charcoal. 
 
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
Total
10 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Contact:  Douglas Addison 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-1188 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Daddison@worldbank.org
