Docutnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Ml CH071 HE COPY
Report, No. 105O5-BD  Type: (POR)
BARQUERO, / X31757 / T9q1't/ OEtDDI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
APRIL 6, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADP         -     Annual Development Program
APDW        -     Appointment, Promotions and Deputation Wing
(Establishment Division)
BASC        -     Bangladesh Administrative Starf College
BAU         -     Bangladesh Agricultural University
BCS         -     Bangladesh Civil Service
BMDC        -     Bangladesh Management Development Center
BPATC       -     Bangladesh Public Administration Training Center (Savar)
COTA        -     Civil Officers Training Academy
CSB         -     Civil Service of Bangladesh
ECNEC       -     Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EPCS        -     East Pakistan Civil Service
GOB         -     Government of Bangladesh
IBA         -     Institute of Business Administration (Dhaka University)
IPA         -     Institute of Public Administration (Consultants)
MSW         -     Management Services Wing (Establishment Division)
NIPA        -     National Institute of Public Administration
NTC         -     Natior,al Training Council
PATC        -     Public Administration Training Center
Pp          -     Project Proforma
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PMIS        -     Personnel Management Informatioe. System
RPATC       -     Regional Public Administration Training Center
SFYP        -     Second Five-Year Plan (1980-1985)
STI         -     Staff Training Institute
TCPC        -     Training and Career Planning Cell (Establishment Division)
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
Fiscal Year (FY) of Borrower
July 1-June 30
Currency Equivalents
1 Taka U=S  0.04
24.5 Taka = US$ 1.00
(March 23, 1983)
1 Taka = US$ 0.03
35.79 Taka = US$ 1.00
(July 1, 1991)



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
USSA
Office of Directw-Ceneral
Olwatiom eat)
April 6, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on BANGLADESH
Public Administration (Training, Personnel and
Management) Proiect (Credit 1349-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report antitled "Project
Completion Report on BANGLADESH - Public Administration (Training, Personnel and
Management) Project (Credit 1349-BD)" prepared by the former Asia Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING,
PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
TABLE OF.CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .... . i
Evaluation Summary  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    iii
PART I     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity ...................  .                             1
B. Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
C.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
E.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
F.  Major Results of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
C.  Project Sustainability ....  .      .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    10
H.  IDA Performance  ....  .      .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    11
I.  Borrori'er Performancc ....  .    .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    11
J.  Consulting Services  ....  .      .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
K.  Project Documentation and Data ... .      .    .....  .  .  .  .    .    12
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
A.  Sank Performance ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    13
B.  Borrower Performance ....  .         . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    15
C.  Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower . . . . . . .   16
D.  Role of Co-financiers  ....                    .                  16
E.  Comments on Parts I and III of the PcaR .           .             16
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:   IDA Credits Relevant to the Project .         . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table 2:   Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable . . .   18
Table 3:   Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements .       . . . . . .   19
Table 4:   IDA Financing  ....  .      .  .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    20
Table 5:   Project Costs  .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Table 6:  Allocation of Credit Proceeds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       22
Table 7:   Planned and Actual Completion of Project Components   . . .    23
Table 8:   Compliance with Major Covenants .  . . . . . . .  . . .  . .       25
Table 9:   Mission Data by Stage of Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
Table 10:  Staff Inputs by Staff of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks   . .        29
f        ~~~~This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authc :zation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING,
PERSONNEL AN.D M&A&GEMENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Coripletion Report (PCR) for the Public
Administration (Training, Personnel and Management) Project in Bangladesh, for
which Credit 1349-BD in the amount of SDR 11.1 million (equivalent to US$l2.0
million) was approved on April 19, 1983. The Credit was closed on December
31, 1990, 24 months behind the original schedule. Disbursements continued
through April 30. 1991 to cover commitments made prior to the Closing Date.
The total disbursed under this .Credit amounts to SDR 7,409,735.41 (USS 8.61
million) and the last disbursement was on April 1, 1991. The undisbursed
balance was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the South Asia, Country Department I, the former Asia Regional
Office (Preface,Evaluation Summary. Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part
II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during IDA's final supervision
missions in May 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report,
the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence, internal IDA memoranda and discussions with project
authorities. The Borrower independently prepared Part II using local
consultants.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING.
PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMIENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(i)       Project Objectives (para.4)   The objectives of the project were to:
(a) improve managerial and general administrative training by supporting the
program to increase the enrollment capacity and upgrade the quality of
training of the Public Administration Training Center at Savar (PATC) and the
Regional Public Administration Training Centers (RPATCs) at Dhaka, Chittagong,
Rajshahi and Khulna; and (b) strengthen the Establishment Division by
developing and instituting a modernized Personnel Management Information
System (PMIS) and establishing a Management Services Wing (MSW).
(ii)      Implementation Experience (SectioL D and E)   Implementatioia was
affected by: (a) critical political events ind changes in the environment of
the project which affected the original des,7: management and organization;
(b) the Government's overall cumbersome routsn- and decision-making processes
which generated, among other problems, delays an the approval of the Project
Proformas (.'Ps) and the establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU); (c) controversy amor  Government officials on issues of appropriate
organizational authority; (d) frequent changes in the project and training
institutions personnel; (d) late start-up of the construction work; and (e)
the Government's failure to allocate the full amount of project financing in
the three PPs.
(iii)     Results (Section F)   The project has had appreciable successes in
achieving its objectives. In particular, the project achieved tangible,
positive results in the areas of training capacity, construction works and the
computer center in the Establishment Division. Training capacity has been
considerably increased with the new facilities constructed at PATC-Savar and
the RPATCs. The campuses are attractive and are running with increased
efficiency. Also, there has been a substantial upgrading in the quality of
the training, with a cadre of trainers using a variety of teaching methods and
new case studies. There are still quality problems however, and as a
consequence, the RPATCs have difficulties in attracting a full enrollment.
Neither the PMIS nor the MSW objectives of the project have been fully
achieved. The planned institutionalization in the Ministry of Establishment
of improved systems and a capacity for offering management services to the
Government as described in the SAR has not occurred.
(iv)      SustainabilitX (Section G)   Project sustainability is likely but
not assured. Despite the fact that a good foundation has been established at
the PATC to become one of the better t.-31nlng institutions in the Region, and
that the RPATCs have met most of the pro:e-t targeted goals, sustainability of



- iv -
the project gains would need a clearer Government commitment to the support of
training as a development objective and of training centers and agents.
Without continuing active promotion of the training objectives and
institutions by the Government there are no guarantees for the improvement in
the effectiveness and quality of the public administration. Sustainability of
the PMIS and MSW sub-components is unlikely unless additional assistance and
financing are provided.
(v)       Findings and Lessons learned
(a)  Several critical events in the environment of the project, such rt
the advent of martial law in 1982, the introduction of   i upaz, d'
reorganization and other major political and administrative cha: ,
affected its original design, management and organization. Ri,'__
project design and management problems contributed to the delay in
achieving the project's physical objectives and to a shortfall in
meeting some of the quality objectives. Therefore, the Bank should
try to ensure that the necessary flexibility is bvilt in the project
to ensure its feasibility and to permit adjustments when critical
external events endanger the achievement of the project objectives
(Part I, paras. 8, 10 and 15);
(b)  The Government's cumbersome routines and decision processes, and the
insufficient support and commitment evidenced by the constant
changes in personnel and the conflicts over the project management,
diminished IDA's ability to influence the project management and
organization and resulted in delays in critical project decisions
and progress towards project targets. IDA has learned that the
successful implementation of the project is directly tied to the
Government commitment and support of the project objectives,
recruitment and retention of qualified project staff personnel and
full funding of all project components as agreed during project
preparation (Part I, paras. 14, 17 and 23);
(c) IDA conducted 11 supervision missions and six review missions.
Aide-Memoires were appropriate in their comments and proposals for
action or changes in the project. Despite the regular and
substantial project monitoring, IDA had a limited leverage in
eliciting government support for certain critical and agreed project
activities. Therefore, it would be important for IDA to go beyond
the visits to project facilities and staff, the formal presentations
of the Aide-Memoire and all other diplomatically correct
interactions with the governmer , and try to become more actively
involved in assisting the gove .lment toward more effective project
coordination/action (Part I, paras. 20 and 21).
(d)  Finally, IDA found that the envisaged formation of a critical mass
of trained and receptive staff to generate change inside the
Ministry of Establishment never took place. This was in part due to
the fact that the front-loading of the technical assistance effort
was not an effective strategy. The Government and the project



personneL were unprepared t_ collauoo..Fe with the consultants,team.
Moreovpr, the consultants' strategic recommendations for follow-up
s&tivities have not been implemented (Part I, para. 24).
1.'



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING.
PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity
- Project Name:  Public Administration (Training, Personnel and
Management) Project
- Credit No.:    1349-BD
- RVP Unit:      Asia Regional Office, Country Department 1
- Country:       Bangladesh
- Sector:        Education
- Subsector:     Public Administration (Training, Personnel and
Management)
B.  Project Background
1.        When Bangladesh came into being in 1971, it carried forward the
basic administrative organization and civil service structure used in
Pakistan. Since then, successive Governments have attempted to modify and
develop an administrative structure more suited to their national situation,
initiating reforms in the organizational and administrative systems. Because
of political instability, many of these reforms were not completed and it was
not until the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP)(1980-1985) that the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) articulated a clear and definite strategy to increase the
efficiency of the public administration system. The strategy called for,
inter alia: (a) upgrading the knowledge and skill in the public services by
imparting universal and compulsory training in administration and management
through functional and integrated training programs; (b) introducing career
planning and personnel policy in administration to promote specialization and
professionalism in the public service; (c) strengthening action research
activities in administration and management development as a continuous
process; (d) strengthening organization and methods systems in Government in
order to rationalize systems, procedures and structures to increase
organizational efficiency and effectiveness; (el rationalizing and simplifying
accounting, budgeting and financial control procedures so that they become
geared to the needs of a decentralized administration and ensure greater
accountability; and (f) providing necessary training support to local bodies
to transform them into viable and self contained development planning,
implementation and administration units. L
I The Establishment Division was given the lead role for programs in
personnel training, administrative research and systems modetnization.



-2-
2.        As a result of the broad policies outlined in the SFYP, the
Government took several steps to addresR the problems which affected the
sector. The Bangladesh Civil Service (BSC) as a unified career service was
created in 1980. In the latter part of 1982, GOB made significant changes in
the organization of the "overnment and the deployment of its staff. It
reorganized and reduced the number of ministries from 44 to 19, cutting 35Z of
their staff and redeploying them to positions in the local administration.
The Government also developed a plan for improving public administration and
management training at all le ils and consolidated the delivery of civil
service training, which traditionally had been provided by separate
institutions, into tae Public Administration Training Center (PATC) located at
Savar 2 and four affiliated regional training centers (RPATCs) located at
Dhaka, C.4ittagong, Khulna and Rajshahi.
3.        Simultaneously, GOB engaged in an extensive dialogue with IDA on
areas where assistance would make a significant impact on the quality of
management in the public service. Three specific areas of the Government's
strategy were earmarked as appropriate for assistance under a Publ'c
Administration Project: (a) managerial and g-neral administrative training;
(b) personnel management; and (c) organization and management services. As a
result, the Public Administration (Training, Personnel and Management) Project
was designed to focus on developing institutional capabilities in the above
three areas.3 The project was appraised in February '982.
C. Proiect Objectives
4.        The broad goals of the project were to support the Government's
continuing efforts to reform the civil service and the administrative
environment in which it worked, and to support the strategy to increase the
efficiency of public administration. However, since project components were
to address only three specific areas, the project objectives were limited to:
(a) Improving Managerial and General Administrative Training by:
(i) supporting the program to increase the enrollment capacity of
the PATC and the RPATCs; and
(ii)  upqrading the quality of training imparted at the PATC and the
(b)  Str--.. :.iening the Estab.;.'shment Division by:
(i) developing and instituting a modernized Personnel Management
2  The Savar center is sometimes referred to as the Bangladesh Public
Administration Training Center (BPATC).
3 A separate Business Management Education Project (Cr. 1318-BD) approved
by the Board in January 1983, was designed to assist GOB in improving the
country's business management education and training program.



- 3 -
Information System (PMIS); and
(ii)  establishing a Management Services Wirg (MSW).
5.        Project Components anv Indicators:  To achieve the above objectives
the project would assist the government to: (a) expand the physical capacity
of the PATC and RPATC through the constructior and equipping of teaching
facilities, library, administrative buildings and a dormitory; (b) improve the
quality of training at the PATC and RPATC through provision of fellowships and
special training courses to upgrade the teaching staff, increasing the
relevance of curricula to training needs with the assisitance of experts,
developing a program of research and cas   't4-jes and upgrading equipment and
train!-ng materials; (c) enhance the syste_- pe sonnel administration through
the introduction of a modern PMIS with the ass.stance of experts and
reinforced by staff training and additional equipment and salary support for
incremental staff; (d) strengthen administrative syste-- and procedures
through the financing of experts, staff training, equipment and incremental
salaries to enhance the scope of the O&M wing; and (e) upgrade project
management capability in the E;tablishment Division through provision of staff
training, equipment and incremental staff salaries for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU).
6.        Specifically, the project would:
(a) Improve Managerial and General Administrative Training by:
(i)    Assisting the Public Administration Training Center (PATC)
and the RPATCs to increase their t=aining capacity from the
present level of 2,750 to around 5,000 per year. The project
would assist in the capacity expansion program by financing
the construction, furniture and equipment for a 85,000 volume
(150 reader) libraz, and training materials production
center, a multi-purpose hall with a seating capacity of 500,
with two lecture rooms of about 100 person capacity, a third
wing to the Central Administration Block and a 50-room hostel
for senior level officers, and additional classrooms, library
and one 120-place capacity multipurpose hall at the RPATCs in
Rajshahi, Khulna and Chittagong. It would provide furniture
and equipment for the classrooms/syndicate rooms and the
Central Administration Block at PATC, Savar and RPATC at
Dhaka. The project would also finance a self-contained
teaching computer to assist in the analysis of data which
will be generated by the PMIS.
(ii)   In addition to capacity expansion,   e project would assist
in upgradiag the quality of training PATC and RPATCs.
Quality improvements would be facilitated through improved
library facilities and training materials, curriculum
upgrading, the research program to be undertaken, but mainly
by the staff development program designed to produce more
capable trainers. Stat- 'evelopment would be the result of



-4-
two programs. The fiLzst was a locally-oriented T:3ining of
Trainers program to be organized at the PATC and RPATCs. It
was designed to trair. 120 trainers per year for a total of
700 trainers over the project period. This would cover all
of the trainers in PATC and about 61Z of the trainers in the
civil service training network. The program would emphasize
training techniques and methodclogy, and would at the same
time develop training mtodules and films for use in civil
service training prograLis.  The project would finance
technical assistance (local and expatriate), honoraria,
stipends, and the cost of training materials to support this
program.
The second program involved overseas training. The project
would provide about 339 man-months of fellowships in order to
upgrade the permanent teaching staff of the PATC by allowing
them to pursue advanced training in specialized areas of
Public Administration, Economics, Rural Development,
Personnel Administration and Business Education. Another 27
man-months of fellowships would be financed for short-term
structured courses in a number of administration, management,
and training areas such as the training of senior executives,
training techniques, organizational development,
psychological testing, consulting techniques and learning
measurement.
Both the "Training of Trainers" and overseas fellowship
peograms were to be linked to the provision of technical
assistance for curriculum and program development (48 man-
months). Expatriate experts would serve as visiting
professors and at the same time, undertake curriculum and
progrim development activities when the Bangladeshi
instructors depart on their fellowships. Simultaneous with
their teaching, and as a part of their operational
assignment, the visiting professors would prepare Bangladesh
specific materials for the specialized short courses to be
developed for the other instructors and Establishment
Division staff. Expert assistance was required to develop
this program. The project would finance 24 man-months of
technical assistance in the areas of supervisory skills,
report writing and administrative communications.
(b) Strengthening the Establishment Division by:
(iii)  Introducing a Modern Personnel Management Information System
designed to provide improved job descriptions, job analysis,
performance appraisals, upgraded individual officer files, a
personnel manual of rules and regulations, and computer
facilities to speed the analysis and recovery of the data
generated by the other elements of the system. Job
descriptions would be prepared for positions held by Class I



-5-
officers and would describe in detail the functions to be
performed in each position. At the same time, job analysis
would provide an understanding of the experience, skills and
knowledge needed to perform each job. Performance appraisal
would be developed in order to institute a method of
assessing performance against agreed work programs and job
aescriptions. Personnel files would be upgraded to include
infoL-nation on performance, training, education, as well as
wage and benefit data. The Personnel Manual would
rationalize and codify the scattered elements of personnel
rules and regulations. The project would support the
establishment of the PMIS by financing 12 man-months of
expatriate and 48 man-months of local technical assistance,
staff training in the form of 21 man-months of regional and
international fellowships and in-country seminars/workshops,
salary support for the incremental staff required for system
development, and a small self-contained computer (128 KB
memory, diskette magazine drive and 257 MB disk).
(iv)   Establishing the Management Services Wing (MSW) by enlarging
the scope of work of the O&M Wing of the Establishment
Division. The new MSW would focus on both improving office
systems and procedures and organizational development. These
would be the on-going central functions of the Wing, and
during the project period, selected Ministries would be the
subject of these analyses. Work would be aimed, initially,
at office systems such as records management, filing,
copying, common services, and the procedural rules which
govern these matters. This would result in a complete review
and simplification of the Secretariat Instructions ' which
contain the rules governing office procedures. The MSW would
-!so work closely with the staff of the TOT and Staff
Training Department of PATC because methods improvements
would be central to the curriculum and training program of
the supervisory staff. In addition to this methods work, the
Wing would also perform a more sophisticated service of
organization development aimed at those procedures, rules and
regulations which govern inter and intra agency information
flow and decision making and would be reflected in
appropriate sections of the Rules of Business. 6 The
project would support the establishment of this Wing, by
financing 60 man-months (30 expatriate, 30 local) of
technical assistance, 48 man-months of fellowships, staff
training (in-country seminars/workshops), equipment and
incremental staff salary support. The technical assistance
' Secretariat Instructions, Cabinet Secretariat.
Rules of Business, 1975, Cabinet Division, Cabinet Secretariat, Dhaka,
1975.



-6-
would comprise expatriate and local experts in organizational
development.
(v)    Upgrading Project Management and Organization.  the project
would be managed by a Project Implementation Unit in the
Establishment D4vision which would be responsible for the
management and supervision of the inputs to the training
institutions including the coordination of fellowship and in-
country training programs and the PMIS and MSW components,
the management and supervision of the evaluation program, and
the equipment procurement process. In addition, for
summative evaluation of project activities would be carried
out by the PfU with assistance of expatriate (27 man-months)
and local (30 man-months) consultants.
D. Project Design and Organization
7.        The World Bank had already assisted Bangladesh in the areas of
management education and training. These efforts included training projects,
sector studies, and the financing of some of the construction at the Public
Administration Training Center. In 1977 an IDA team visited Bangladesh to
investigate the extent to which public administration and management training
should be the focus of IDA's assistance. The team suggested the formulation
of a civil service training plan and IDA financed the services of a consultant
who conducted a training needs survey. In addition, it became clear that
training alone could not overcome all of the problems affecting public
administration in Bangladesh. The Government agreed and selected a foreign
consulting organization, the Institute of Public Administration (IPA), to
investigate the problem in depth. This "pre-investment study"6 was financed
by UNDP and, along with IDA's preparation/pre-appraisal and appraisal missions
carried out in 1981 and 1982, served as a basis for the Public Administration
Project.
8.        Even though the project was timely and well prepared, sev':ral
critical events and changes in the environment of the project affected its
original design, management and organization. Major political changes in
Bangladesh and the advent of martial law in 1982 changed personnel responsible
for the project. Also, the introduction of the upazila reorganization brought
dramatic changes in the size of the civil service. In relation to the project
management, what IDA considered a single project/credit, was regarded in many
GOB documents as three diffe-ent projects and therefore separate, individual
Project Proformas (PPs) were issued for the Public Administration Training
Center at Savar, the regional centers (RPATCs) and the Establishment
Division's PMIS and MSW program. In addition, the initial delays in the
approval of PPs hampered the recruitment of staff and the formal establishment
of the PIU, which took place in 1984, nearly 10 months after the initiation of
6 The final report issued in June 1981 was entitled: Pre-Investment Study
of Public Administration Training and Management Improvement in Bangladesh".



-7-
the project. Overall, design features in the pre-feasibility and appraisal
stages could not have been flexible enough to foresee the critical changes in
,.he political and administrative environment of the project.
9.        The early years of the project were also troubled by controversy on
issues of appropriate organizational authority. While GOB appointed, as
planned, a joint secretary to manage the PIU, this office frequently found its
staff being controlled by subordinate officet in the Estabiishment Division
and in conflict with a more senior officer serving as Rector of the PATC at
Savar. As a result of this overt struggle for control of the project
activities between the Rector and the Establishm,nt Division, frequent debates
and communications about shifting the PIU to the PATC ensued. At the beginning
of the project (and due in part to the complexities of the civil works
construction) IDA was not convinced of the need to shift project
responsibilities to the PATC, and therefore recommended that matters be solved
by better communication between the parties. Later on it agreed to place the
PIU under the PATC but this recommendation was never implemented.
10.       In sum, the rigid project design and management problems
contributed to the delay in achieving the project's physical objectives and to
a shortfall in meeting some of the quality objectives (see paragraph 15).
Mechanisms for adjusting to changing circumstances were not in place. In
adaition, the government's cumbersome routines and decision processes and the
insufficient support and commitment diminished IDA's ability to influence the
project management and organization.
E. Project Implementation
11.       Credit EffectUveness.  The Credit was signed on May 16, 1983 and
became effective on November 23, 1983, two months after the originally planned
date.
12.       Implementation Schedule.  The original credit Cl6sing Date was
December 31, 1988, but this was extended first to December 31, 1989 and
finally to December 31, 1990. The main reasons for the first project
extension were related to the delays in the implementation of the Studies and
Case Development Program and of the Training of Trainers (TOT) Program at
PATC. These two programs were considered the heart of the institutional
development of the PATC because of their potential impact on the effectiveness
of training programs and, ultimately, the quality of the civil service. Work
on the Studies and Case Development Program began only during FY87, basically
due to GOB difficulties in deciding the appropriate method of compensating the
r.searchers and case writers. The broader issue involved the incentive system
for trainers and training institutions. In the final years of the project,
however, the Studies and Case Development Program made significant progress.
The Training of Trainers Program as envisioned in the project design included
the training of PATC trainers, the training of trainers from other training
institutions in Bangladesh, assistance to officers in the Establishment
Division to help them train government personnel in work simplification
methods and in techniques of on-the-job training. By late October 1988, the
PATC had been able to address only the training of PATC trainers. As the TOT



had been included in the project as a major intervention towards improving
training methodology and as it became clear that not all objectives of the TOT
program were likely to be me' during the life of the project, this constituted
another powerful reason for 4xtending the project closing date.
13.       Regarding the second project extension, IDA agreqd in July 1989 to
extend the Closing Date to December 31, 1990 to finalize the construction
program of a new training facility for the RPATC, Dhaka, which started late in
the project period as an additional work. Funds had not been included in the
SAR for the construction of the RPATC, Dhaka, because during negotiations, IDA
understood that the building of the former Civil Officers Training Academy
(COTA) would be used for the Center. In December 1987, however, the BCS
Aca'emy took the possession of this building and the Center was asked to move
to another building which needed expansion. After assessing the needs, a
proposal for constructing a five-story building on the Dhaka site was
submitted to IDA for consideration. The proposal was approved by IDA.
However, later on, GOB submitted to IDA a revised proposal to finance a
fifteen-story building. After extensive consultations with the Project
Director and the Rector, IDA did not recommend constructing a 15-story
building because of likely underutilization of the capacity and because it was
not possible to complete the construction within the project's life.
Subsequently, IDA agreed to the construction of a six-story building and
renovation/extension of the existing building for the RPATC, Dhaka.
14.       Disbursements.  Of the total credit of SDR 11.1 million (US$12
million equivalent), 672 has been disbursed in SDR terms, or SDR 7.41 million,
and 72? in US dollar terms, or US$8.61 million. A large portion of the
underutilization resulted from the depreciation of the Taka vis a vis the US
dollar and the failure of the Planning Commission to allocate to the project
authorities the full amount of project financing. The sums allocated to the
project in the three PPs, which set expenditure limits for the project
authorities, were considerably less (21X) than the amounts estimated by IDA at
the start of the project. In addition, the low percent of expenditures in
certain categories was due to delays in receiving GOB permission to increase
the daily allowances for training (Category 4: Training Allowance, Honoraria,
Student Stipends and Incremental Staff Salaries) and the fewer than planned
teaining materials developed (Category 5: Consumable Materials and Other
Operating Costs).
F. Maior Results of the Proiect
15.       The Public Administration Project has had noticeable successes in
achieving its development objectives. In particular, the project achieved
tangible, positive results in the areas of training capacity, construction
v-rks and the computer center in the Establishment Division (now Ministry of
Establishment):
(i,       Improve l4anagerial and General Administrative Training
Project inputs:  Despite the i:>w start of project activities, all
components of the constructin -r.'gram at the PATC and RPATC have



-9-
been completed (see Part III, Table 7). The new library at PATC is
now stocked with about 27,000 new books and journals (50Z of the
appraisal target) and the facilities at the RPATCs have
approximately 38,700 books, or 292 over the appraisal figures. The
PATC facilities at Savar are equal or better than other training
facilities in Bangladesh. The campus is attractive and well
organized and the training programs are offered in a well run and
efficient manner. The technical assistance targets specified in
the SAR of 20.8 man-years of total experts to carry out the studies
and case development program, 6 man-years of expatriate assistance
and 30.5 man-years of fellowships for the capacity expansion and
quality improvement at the PATC and RPATCs (total of 57.3 man-
years) has been partially achieved for a total of 37.3 man-years.
Prolect outputs: Over the past six years, PATC enrolled 0,040 in
126 courses, with a normal load of just over 20 courses for 1,150
to 1,250 trainees per year. At the RPATCs, actual enrollments are
running behind targets. Overall, the enrollment numbers are well
below the SAR estimated growth in training from 2,750 annually to
around 5,000 by the end of the project. Despite the very slow
start of the Studies and Case Development Program, more than 30
studies were undertaken, finished and evaluated (see para. _ ).
Another critical program, the Training of Trainers Program, with a
SAR expecting 120 new trainers per year (700 in the life of the
project) has achieved a total of 169 participants between 1984-
1990. Regarding the Fellowship Program, of the 16 degree
candidates sent abroad, all but one were successful in the degree
programs and all but two have returned to Bangladesh for service in
the government.
*ii)      Strangthening the Establishment Division
Project inputs. The 6.5 man-years of local experts, 3.5 man-years
of expatriate specialist services and 8 man-years of fellowships
for the establishment of the PMIS and MSW in the Establishment
Division have been completed. However, technical assistance to the
MSW was provided before all the core of new officers were appointed
and well before many returned from training. A functioning MIS is
in place at the Public Administration Computer Center (PACC), with
well trained staff.
Project outputs. Some contributions have been mnade to the
Government by the reports and manuals produced. A personnel manual
has been completed and published for use throughout the Government.
Personnel data forms have been revised, but the information is
collected only for those Class I officers who come under the
authority of the Ministry of Establishment (the Secretariat Cadre,
Admin. Cadre, and the Senior Service Pool). It appears that only a
very limited advance in job description has been completed, and
this has not been based upon adequate job analysis. Personnel
files are upgraded, and sumoaries are available by computer.



- 10 -
Promotion boards can easily find information on the education,
training and experience of Class I officers under the Ministry of
Establishment. An up-to-date computerized file is kept of all
sanctioned and filled posts for all positions supported by the
recurrent budget. Neither the MSW, nor the PMIS objectives of the
project have been met. The planned institutionalization in the
Ministry of Establishment of improved systems and a capacity for
offering management services to the government as described in the
SAR has not occurred. The PACC activities however, have the
potential of spreading personnel management information systems to
the Ministry of Establishment and gradually to other government
units.
G. Project Sustainability
16.       Project sustainability is likely but not assured for training at
the PATC and RPATCs. A good foundation has been established at the PATC, and
there is promise this institution could become one of the better training
institutions in the region. The RPATCs have not yet had the attention they
need if they are to fulfill their potential as efficient training centers for
office employees throughout the country. The capacity of the RPATCs now meets
the project targeted goals but may not be sufficient for the GOB training
needs for Class II and III staff. The PATC is increasingly providing better
supervision and development assistance to the RPATCs, but significant physical
infrastructure investment is still needed to expand RPATCs to other areas of
the country if more than a fraction of the office workers in Government are to
be trained.
17.       Training is recognized as a need and as a xevelopment objective,
but the existing policy directives and budgetary constraints suggest that
training in the civil service and training institutions do not have a priority
status in the administration of Bangladesh. Sustainability of project gains
would need a clear government commitment to the support of the project
training centers. In this regard, GOB support is mainly needed to provide
career incentives for the managers and trainers of the PATC and the RPATCs and
to encourage experimentation and innovative training which responds to needs,
current priorities and international standards.
18.       The higher risk (and potentially higher pay-off) sub-components of
the project (MSW and PMIS) have not fared as well as the training sub-
components and institutions. The PMIS has promise and should be further
developed. There is a growing interest within the Ministry of Estpblishment
in its potential to make personnel management more efficient. If the PMIS is
to be useful beyond the Ministry of Establishment, it will need additional
financing. The breadth and depth of the data in the system needs improvement
and the level of job analysis must be much more thorough and standards for
performance assessment and promotion need a great deal more work if the goal
of matching the qualification of officers to positions is to be improved. The
MSW seems to have attracted little interest or commitment, and there is little
to show for the investment. There seems to be very little to build upon and
little understanding of the opportunities for organizational development that



- 11 -
exist in the government.
H. IDA Performance
19.       The issues, problems and risks for the Public Administration
Project were correctly and thoroughly diagnosed during project preparation.
The project was in the design stage from the late 1970s through 1982, and
included initial discussions with the government on needs in the public
administration and training areas, a needs assessment on training and a pre-
feasibility study performed by a team of expatriate consultants.
20.       During project implementation, IDA conducted 11 supervision
missions and six review missions (while in the country to work on other
projects). The Resident Mission actively participated in several of these
missions. Aide-Memoires were appropriate in their comments and proposals for
action or changes in the project, and also for expressing concern about
problems and delays in project activities. During supervision work IDA
recommended several changes and additions such as the financing of repair
works on the 1988 flood damages at the PATC-Savar, the construction of the
six-story functional building at the RPATC, Dhaka, and the two project
extensions.
21.       IDA was not able to have much influence, however, in reducing the
high turnover of personnel experienced by the project, especially the project
director position, and in the frequent shifts in other project personnel in
the Ministry of Establishment, the PIU and in PATC. The average assignment in
important project-related positions was less than two years as concrasted with
the usual government policy of minimum three-year postings.
I. Borrower Performance
22.       After initial delays, the project staff performed effectively in
implementing project components. The administrative infrastructure created by
the project seems to have developed into a reasonably efficient one and the
core staff from the PIU will be retained after the project closes.
23.       A major weakness was the government's complicated and lengthy
bureaucratic procedures which contributed to delays and disruptions as
exemplified by the 2-year delay in the approval of the PPs. Other sources of
disruptions in the project implementation were the constant changes in
personnel and the internal government conflict over the project management
which resulted in eelaya in critical project decisions and progress toward
project targets. Superimposed on the tripartite management structure composed
of the Ministry of Establishment, the PIU and PATC were many other approval
points such as the Project Evaluation Committee, the Executive Committee of
the National Economic Council and often the President's Office, in addition to
several other separate functional groups, such as the Overseas Fellowships
Approval Committee. Widely dispersed physical locations of the Ministry of
Establishment, PIU and PATC offices made com=unications difficult.  Ogerall,
the difficulties in project performance cannot be attributed to individual



- 12 -
performance but rather to the government's overall cumbersome decision-making
processes.
J. Consulting Services
24.       The technical assistance work was provided by the Institute of
Public Administration and the American University Consortium between September
1983 and July 1986, with four long-term advisors providing 802 of the total
contracted person-months of consultancy. Unfortunately, the front-loading of
the technical assistance did not turn out to be an effective strategy as only
few staff were in place, the PATC had not been formally established and the
consultants worked in virtual isolation from required counterparts. The
consultants' strategic recommendations for follow-up activities have not been
implemented.
25.       The results of the fellowship program have been more positive.  The
shortfall in the number of fellowships financed under the project can be
attributed to higher training costs than originally calculated, failure of the
government to identify sufficient numbers of candidates and its subsequent
decision not to use Credit funds for the program.
K. Proiject Documentation and Data
26.       Project documentation was readily available in the Division's
files. Complete and precise supervision reports, as well as other project and
legal documents were extremely helpful for the preparation of this report.



- 13 _
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING,
PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
PART II. PRfiJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE'
A. Bank Performance
1.        The Public Admi-.istration (Training, Personnel and Management)
Project was designed on che basis of the outline given in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) of the Bank. The SAR was based on the findings of appraisal and
post-appraisal missions to Bangladesh in 1982. The mission members included
three Bank officials and two international consultants engaged by the Bank.
The missions did not include a Government representative. Description of the
Project given in the Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
1349-BD faithfully reflected the SAR. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
prepared and implemented three projects of its own to implement the Project
described in the DCA.
2.        The Public Administration (Training, Personnel and Management)
Project was implemented with the following additional items proposed by the
GOB and approved by the Bank:
(a) Construction of the second floor on the Public Administration
Training Center (PATC) at Savar library buildings.
(b) Construction of a new building and renovation of an existing
building for the Regional Public Administration Training Center
(RPATC), Dhaka.
(c) Renovation, furnishing and procurement of books for the Secretariat
Library.
(d) Construction of dormitories for the RPATCs in Chittagong, Khulna
and Rajshahi.
(e) Repair of flood damages of the PATC-Savar.
3.        The Bank showed considerable flexibility in responding to the
emerging needs of the GOB which could not be foreseen at the time of designing
the Project. Two examples of the Bank's demonstrated flexibility are its
consent to extend the life of the credit agreement by two years and its
readiness to place the Project Implementation Unit under the ?ATC-Savar
instead of keeping it as an attached office of the Ministry of Establishment.
(This was not, however, implemented by GOB as the Bank's consent came at a
late stage of the project implementation). However, the Bank showed
regrettable rigidity in refusing to approve the proposal for providing a 15-
story foundation to the new RPATC building in Dhaka which is located on a
prime piece of land in Dhaka city. From the point of view of optimum
utilization of the scarce land of Dhaka city, the proposal deserved better
consideration. On the whole, Bank's attitude toward the Borrower was one of
' The Government of Bangladesh s_9e:tie  Part II on May 14, 1991.



- 14 -
understanding and cooperation.
4.        The Project achieved tangible positive results in the fields of
training capacity, building activities like construction, furnishing and
staffing of training centers and a computer center in the Ministry of
Establishment. The training capacity of the PATC and RPATCs has increased
substantially in terms of both quality and quantity. Through this project the
GOB has been able to make a significant start in computer application in
personnel management. The Project could not have been implemented at a more
opportune moment. As a result of the introduction of the upazila system, the
size of the civil service increased considerably in a short period of time.
This could not be anticipated at the time of project design. Thanks to the
implementation of the project, the PATC has been able to manage a fourfold
increase in turnover of Foundation Training courses for the newly recruited
civil servants. Even the enhanced physical facilities and training capacity
of the centers are enough only to meet half of the annual demand for
Foundation courses.
5.        Project achievements in eFe following areas have been less than
satisfactory for the reasons stats   tong:
(a)  The desired extent of qualitative change in the functions of the
O&M wing of the Ministry of Establishment did not come about due to
lack of clarity of the project objective in this regard to the
stakeholders in the government. Transformation of the role of the
O&M Wing from one of control to that of consulting lacked high
level political comwitment to implement, prior to the approval of
the project.
(b)  The SAR envisaged a too ambitious computer application in the
personnel management area. Matching of job descriptions and job
analysis of each Class-1 position with personal data of the
officers by a computer to make decisions on placement, promotion,
training and performance appraisal would be a daunting task even
for a more technologically advanced environment.
(c)  The Technical Assistance team's contribution towards the
achievement of the project objectives was not tangible due to,
among other reasons, the failure of the SAR to define clearly the
output of the Technical Assistance team.
(d)  Fields of foreign training were identified in the SAR irrespective
of availability of related courses in the training and educational
institutions.
(e)  Payment of stipends to the trainees of the RPATCs was provided for
without giving enough consideration to its possible repercussion on
training programs run by other institutions.
6.        The following lessons learned and issues may be relevant for future
project formulation:



- 15 _
The appraisal and post-appraisal missions should be a Bank-
Government joint exercise.
One or more Government representatives should be included in
appraisal and post-appraisal missions of the Bank who will gain an
intimate understanding of the project design and its objective. A
prospective Project Director should be a logical choice to be
included in the missions.
Government's policy or procedural changes should not be the
objective of a project. Rather, the project should be designed to
help implementation of a change of policy or procedure which the
government has already decided upon.
The SAR should spell out the terms of reference of each resource
person in as much detail as possible without prejudicing the
Government's right to modify the same in the process of project
implementation.
Sustainability of project activities after termination of the
Bank's interventions should be given proper leverage in identifying
project activities.
-    Expatriate expert services should be resorted to only in the areas
where local expertise is obviously lacking, and foreign expert
services should be used mainly for local capacity building.
B. Borrower Performance
7.        Throughout the life of the project the Government demonstrated
adequate will and commitment for implementation of the Project. The DCA
earmarked SDR 11.10 million. The Government drew up programs anticipating
total Bank investment of SDR 9.46 million. The shortfall represented lesser
Government allocation on account of technical assistance, the fellowship
programs and training stipends. Observed ineffectiveness of technical
assistance and fellowship programs prompted the Government to suspend these
two activities at an advanced stage of the project. The question of payment
of training stipends had to pass through lengthy scrutiny of its
sustainability arter the project life and its repercussion on future programs
of RPATCs and those of other training institutions in the country.
8.        In spite of serious resource constraints, the Government maintained
a steady flow of counterpart funds for the project. This signified the high
priority the Government attached to this project. In fact, the project
enjoyed "Core Project" status in consecutive Annual Development Programs
(ADPs). However, the project life had to be extended by two years mainly to
meet the need of implementation of additional civil works.
9.        The project catered to a vital need of enhancement of public
administration training capacity of the Government at a time when the size of
the civil service underwent rapid expansion. The project made a major



- 16 -
contribution to the emergence of PATC as a premier institution of training in
the country. The campus is well organized for the training programs. The
full complement of training programs prescribed by the government is offered
in a well-run and efficient manner. Institutional planning, policy analysis
of academic and facilities reeds, the use of analytical methodology in
research studies are all sharply improved. In addition, the Ministry of
Establishment is making good use of the computer system that was created under
the project.
10.       Lessons learned are as follows:
-    Indigenous project formulating capability of the Government needs
to be improved so that the extent of the Government involvement in
foreign aided project design is more substantive.
-    Continuity of key personnel from inception through design and
implementation should be ensured.
-    If the beneficiary of a project is a well organized body like PATC,
the implementing responsibility should be mainly with that body.
-    The Project Director of a big project like the present one should
be vested with more administrative and financial powers.
C. Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
11.       The Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was good.
Except on the issues of providing a 15-story foundation to the newly
constructed Dhaka RPATC building and utilizing unspent money, on some new
works, there was virtually no difference of opinion between the Bank and the
Government on any other issue related to project implementation. The Bank
graciously accepted the Government's decision not to utilize fully the credit
fund earmarked for fellowships and Technical Assistance programs.
D. Role of Co-financiers
12.       There was no co-financier of the project except for a UNDP grant of
Tk 53 lakh to conduct the pre-investment study in 1981.
E. Comments on Parts I and III of the PCR
13.       No comment can be made on Part I of the PCR as it has not been sent
to the Borrower. Adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained
in Part III cannot be confirmed either.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING,
PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
(CREDIT 1349-BD)
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan/Credit                     Year of
Ticle        Purpose         Approval    Status        Comments
Cr. 621-BD     Agric/Rural    1976           Completed   Physical aspects
Education II   Training                     June 1982   satisfactory;
quality aspects
need improvement
Cr. 1054-BD    Primary Educ.  1980           Completed   Efforts to increase
Educacion IV                                 Dec. 1986   implem. capacity
Cr. 912-BD     Vocac. Trg.    1979           Completed   Further improvements
Voc. Training                                June 1987   achieved administration
Cr. 1318-BD    Bus. Managemc. 1983           Completed   Improvemt. in quality
Bus.Managemt.                                May 1990    of management education
Cr. 1574-BD    Primary Educ.  1985          Completed   Increase student enroll-
Primary Education II                         Dec. 1990   ment, improve quality,
access and primary school
management
Cr. 2118-BD    Primary Educ.  1990           Approved    Improve quality and
General Educ.                                March 19":  access



- 18 -
Table 2: PLANNED. REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                  Planned Date   Revised Date   Actual Date
-  Identification                                                    12/80
-  Preparation                                                       08/81-11/81
- Appraisal Mission                                                  02/82
- Post-Appraisal Mission                                             11/82
- Credit Negotiations                                                03/07/83
- Board Apprnval                                                     04/19183
- Credit Signature                                                   05/16/83
- Credit Effectiveness                                  09/15/83     11/23/83
- Closing Date                         12/31/88         12/31/89      12/31/90
-  Project Completion                  06/30/88            -          12/31/90



- 19 -
Table 3: ESTIMATED ANs ACTUAL CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMNTS
(USS million)
IDA Fiscal Year       Estimated       Actual
and Semester           Cumulative   cumulative  % Disbursed
1984
06/83-12/83 1             0.10          0.35         2.9%
1/84-6/84   2             0.40          0.66        5.5%
1985
7/84-12/84  1             1.75          0.93         7.8%
1/85-6/85   2             3.05          2.28       19.0%
1986
7/85-12/85  1             4.85          2.65        22.1%
1/86-6/86   2             6.75          4.23       35.2%
1987
7/86-12/86  1             8.10          4.65        38.7%
1/87-6/87   2             9.45          5.21        43.4%
1988
7/87-12/87  1            10.35          5.47        45.6%
1/88-6/88   2            11.24          6.22        51.9%
1989
7/88-12/88  1            12.00          6.52        54.4%
1/89-6/89   2                           7.62        63.5%
1990
07/89-12/89 1                           7.75        64.6%
01/90-06/90 2                           8.45        70.4%
1991
07/90-12/90 1                           8.54       71.22
1/91 - 4/91                             8.61       71.8Z



- 20 -
Table 4: IDA FINANCING
(US$ million)
Estimated                   Actual
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Components                        Costs   Costs    Costs    Costs   Costs   Costs
A.  Public Administration
Training Center              1.93    2.80      4.73    3.08    1.76    4.84
8. Regional Public Adminis-
tration Training Center    2.08    0.33        2.41    1.66       -     1.66
C.  Establishment Division         0.38    0.55      0.93    0.31    0.80    1.11
P.  Project Hanagement             0.12    0.25      0.37    0.19    0.01    0.20
Total Base Cost          4.52    3.93       8.45    5.24    2.57    7.81
Contingencies
Physical                         0.45    0.39      0.85    0.80        -     0.80
Price                            1.81    0.90      2.70       -        -       -
Total (including Contingencies)                     12-0 0 JIL2L2    Q2  LI2    L  1/
1/ The difference between US$12.0 million (estimated) IDA financing and the
US$8.6. million (actual) was cancelled.



- 21 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS
(USS million)
Planned                     Actual
Expense Categorn                     GOB      IDA     Total      GOB    IDA    Total
1.  Civil Works and Furniture           0.70 1/  2.80      3.50    .0.54   3.15    3.69
2.  Equipment and Books                 0.00      2.56     2.56      0.39   2.31    2.70
3.  Technical Assistance                0.00      3.15      3.15       -    2.41    2.41
(foreign and local experts
fellowships miscellaneous
TA costs and professional
fees for designs and
supervision of construction)
4. Training Allowances,
Honoraries, Student
Stipends and Incremental
Staff Salaries                      1.66      2.02     3.68      0.09   0.49    0.58
5. Consumable Material and
Other Operating Costs               0.16 2/  0.63      0.79      0.04   0.25    0.29
6.  Unallocated                         0.19      0.84      1.03        -      -       _
Total Project Cost                  ^                 lhlQ       Jhb2A   AJ    L.L
1/ Includes about US$0.60 million taxes and duties.
2/ Includes about US$0.08 million taxes and duties.



- 22 -
Table 6: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
(SDR million)
Expense                                  Original      Revised         Actual
Catego r                                Allocation   Allocation   Disbursements
1.  Civil Works                            2.17          2.17           2.64
2. Equipment, materials, furniture,
vehicles and library materials       2.75          2.45           1.84
3. Expert services for technical
assistance, fellowships,
professional services for
architectural design and
supervision                          2.89          2.89           2.20
4. Training allowances, honoraria,
student stipends and incremental
staff salaries                       1.85          0.65           0.38
5. Consumable training materials
and operating costs                  0.58          0.58           0.19
6.  Unallocated                             0.86         0.86           0.16 2/
Total          LLLLQ                '/      "L   3/
1/  Amount cancelled on 04/09/89:  SDR 1.5 million (SDR 0.30 million in
Category 2 and SDR 1.2 million in Category 4.
2/ Balance under Special Account due to foreign exchange fluctuations.
31 Amount cancelled on 04/01/91: SDR 2.19 million.



- 23 -
rable 7: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Appraisal
Objective                                               Target 1/      Actual
IMPROVE MANAGERIAL AND GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINING
A. Public Administrative Training Center (PATC)
1. Civil Works (Buildings, Equipment and Furniture)
(a)  Library (85,000 volumes/150 readers capacity)          1     Complete
(b)  Training Materials Production Center                   1
(c)  Multi-purpose Hall (seating capacity 500)              1n
with 2 lecture rooms (100 person capacity)
(d)  Third wing to the Central Administration Block         1
(e)  50-room Hostel                                         1
(f)  Furniture and Equipment                            Various       n
(g)  Computer Lab                                           1         n
2.  Books (Volumes)                                        50,000       27,015
3.  Fellowships (Staff-months)2/                               366         252
4. Technical Assistance: (Staff-months)21
(a)  Expatriates                                           72          195
(b)  Local                                                250
5.  Sanctioned Staff (Class I officers)                         85          501
B. Regional RPATC
1. Civil Works (Buildings, Equipment and Furniture):
(a)  Classrooms                                         Several   Complete
(b)  Library                                                3
(c)  Multi-purpose Hall (seating capacity 120)              1
(d) Furniture and Equipment                             Various
2.  Books (Volumes)                                        30,000       38,752
3.  Sanctioned Staff (Class I officers)                         16          130
STRENGTHEN THE ESTABLISHMENT DIVISION
A.  Personnel Management Information System (PMIS)
1.  Fellowships (Staff-months)                                  21           21
2. Technical Assistance: (Staff-months)
(a)  Expatriates                                           12            12
(b)  Local                                                 48            48
3.  Sanctioned Staff                                            15           21
4.  Computer                                                     1            1
B.  Management Services Wing (MSW)
1.  Fellowships (Staff-months)                                  72           72
2. Technical Assistance: (Staff-months)
(a)  Expatriates                                            30           30
(b)  Local                                                 30            30
3.  Sanctioned Staff                                            58           22



- 24 -
C.  Project Management/Administration
Project }mplementation Unit (PIU):
1.  Fellowships (Staff-months)                                  6            5
2. Technical Assistance (Staff-months)
(a)  Expatriates                                          27           50
(b)  Local                                                30
3.  Equipment                                                  78           72
4.  Sanctioned Staff                                           39           39
1/  Does not include repairing of damages at PATC (Savar) caused by the floods
of 1988.
2/  Includes T.A. to PATC and RPATC.



- 25 -
Table 8: COMPLIANCE WITH MAJOR COVENANTS
Credit
Agreement   Status   Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section
3.04(a)      OK       Borrower to furnish plans,              In full compliance.
documents, etc., to the
Association.
3.04(b)      OK       Borrower to maintain record of          In full compliance.
goods financed from credit,
give access to IDA representative
and furnish reasonable information
on project cost, expenditure of
credit proceeds, etc.
3.04(c)      OK       IDA to publish details of               In full compliance.
project contracts.
3.04(d)      OK       Borrover to furnish full report         In full compliance.
within six months of project
completion.
3.06         OK       Borrower to maintain facilities         In full compliance.
constructed under project and
provide adequate funds for
maintenance.
3.07(a)     OK        By September 30, 1983:  (i) a           In full compliance.
comprehensive program of studies
and case development to be under-
taken during the implementation
of the Project; and (iii) a draft
plan for the evaluation of Project
activities including, inter a.ia,
the data base, the techniques of
collection, and the measurement
and analysis thereof; and
3.07(b)      OK       BY December 31 of each year from        In full compliance.
1984, Borrower to prepare and
furnish to IDA an annual evalua-
tion report.
3.08(a)      OK       By September 30. 1983, establish        In full compliance.
and thereafter maintain a Project
Implementation Unit with staff,
powers and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association,



- 26 -
substantially as set forth in
Schedule 4 to th..s Agreement;
3.08(b)      OK       By December 31, 1983, prepare and    In full compliance.
furnish to the Association for
its comments, a Project Adminis-
trative Plan specifying the
contributions to be made to the
Project by all organizational
units concerned therewith and
giving a detailed timetable
thereof; and
3.08(c)      OK       By December 31. 1983 have in            In full compliance.
operation a monitoring and
evaluation system satisfactory
to the Association which shall
evaluate annually the impact of
the programs carried out under
the Project.
3.09(a)      NOK      Or cause the training institutions   Not complied with.
or applicable ministries of the
Borrower to utilize the job
analysis and job descriptions
developed as part of the PMIS for
curriculum development and the
preparation of annual training
plans and for staffing plans, as
appropriate.
3.09(b)      POK      The performance appraisal system        Partial compliance.
developed as part of the PMIS in
making promotions and placements.
within the Establishment Division,
the Superior Selection Board and
the Council Committee on
Promotions of the Borrower.
4.01(a)      OK       Borrower to maintain records            In full compliance.
and separate accounts of project
expenditure.
4.01(b)      OK       Borrower to retain all records          In full compliance.
evidencing expenditures
(invoices, etc.) until one year
after credit closing dates, and
give access to IDA representatives.
4.01(c)      OK       Borrower shall have accounts            In full compliance.
audited, submit certified



- 27 -
accounts and audit reports to
IDA along with other reasonably
requested supporting information.
Abbreviations:  OK  = Covenant complied with.
NOK - Covenant not complied with.
POK = Covenant partially complied with.



- 28 -
Tablo 9: KISS.ON DATA SY STAGE OF PROJECT
....................................................................................................
Stage of            Month/   No. of   Specialitat10n             Days in  Perforgance Rating  Type of
Project Cycle       Yesr      Person   Repreented                Fiold    Status a/  Trend bl Problems
2/Ul            I SE                               9
Prep.               V1               4 SE/OC/SA/PA                     Si
Prep.                I1/S1              SE                              a
Appraisal           2/R              4 SE.SA,ES,10                    104
PostsAppr.           11/U            4 SE,SA,ES,EP                     68
Total Preparation and Appraisal        in Ss: 48         in days:     240
Review Mission  /    7/83            2 SE,SA                            7
Supervision 1        11/83           3 SE,SA,VT                        77      1          1         T
Review Mission  1   2/84             1SE                                2
Review Mission 'I   3/84             1 SA                                I
Supervision It      8/84             3 ES,SA.SE                        24      2          2        MT
Supervision III     5/85             3 SchengoldM?)ES,SA               55      2          2        MT
Proj.  Devop.  Avail.Credit
Mgmt.  lapect  Funds Coven.
Supervision IV  o   12/85            2 SA,ES                            30     2          2         2    2
Supervision V       4/86             1 ES                               1S     2           2        2    2
Civil works rev.  7/86             1 SA                               6
Supervision VI       12/86           2 ES. UE                           30     2          3         2    2
Civil works rev.  7/8?             1 SA                                5
Supervision VII      1/88            1 SA                               10     2           2        2    2
Supervision Vltl    6/8U             1 ES                                5
Supervision VIII    11/88            1 ES                                6     2           2        2    2
Review             1/89            2 ES,SA                             8
Supervision IX       6/89            2 ES.SA                            13     2           2        2    I
SupervisionX         10/89           1SA                                14     2           2        2    2      1
Supervision Xi       5/90-6/90       1 ES,SA                            14     2           2        2    2      1
Total Supervision             in Staffteeks: 63.4        in days:      322
PCR                           in Staffweeks:  4.1
...............................................................
Comments:
a/ luproblem free or minor probLem, 2 woderate problem, 3amajor
b/ lsimproving, 2ustationary, 3adeteriorating
c/ Fufinancial, msnaserial, TaTechnifel, PaPolicleal., OOther
Special tie:
DC- Dvision Chiff
SA   Senior Architect
SE - Senior Economist
ES - Genersl Education Specialist
VT- Vocational Training Specialist
ID - Institut. DOvt. Specitlist
EP - Education Plawnwr
UE Economist from UIESCO
* Status of project wmreviewed during missions by staff
while in the country to wok on other projects, no SPM form supplied
SPN form changed
Where no./days for SPN sem  short, this "s a ceobined mission



- 29 -
Table 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAFF OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
Planned            Actual
Project Cycle
Preparation                n.avail.                 28.2
Appraisal                  n.avail.                 65.7
Negoti':tions              n.avail.                  0.3
SPN                        n.avail.                 96.8 1/
Total                    191
/ ncl. LOP and PAD (6.5 SWs)



