Document of                                  coi  
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4181-BD
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
March 23, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Manpower Development Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Taka = US$ 0.04
24.5 Taka = US$ 1.00
(As of February 15, 1983)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP    -   Annual Development Program
APDW   -   Appointment, Promotions and Deputation Wing
(Establishment Division)
BASC   -   Bangladesh Administrative Staff College
BAU    -   Bangladesh Agricultural University
BCS    -   Bangladesh Civil Service
EMDC   -   Bangladesh Management Development Center
COTA   -   Civil Officers Training Academy
CSP    -   Civil Service of Pakistan
ECNEC  -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EPCS   -   East Pakistan Civil Service
GOB    -   Government of Bangladesh
IBA    -   Institute of Business Administration (Dhaka University)
IPA    -   Institute of Public Administration (Consultants)
MSW    -   Management Services Wing (Establishment Division)
NIPA   -   National Institute of Public Administration
NTC    -   National Training Council
PP     -   Project Proforma
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
PATC   -   Public Administration Training Center
PSC    -   Public Service Commission
RPATC  -   Regional Public Administration Training Center
PMIS   -   Personnel Management Information System
SFYP   -   Second Five Year Plan (1980-1985)
STI    -   Staff Training Institute
TCPC   -   Training and Career Planning Cell (Establishment Division)
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
I. THE ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF BANGLADESH . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A. Present Organization ............  .....  ..  .   1
B. The Public Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C. The Establishment Division .......  ...  ..  ...  .   .   2
D. The Public Service Training System . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
II.  PROBLEMS AND POLICIES OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION . . . . . . . . .  3
A.  Management of the Civil Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
B. Organization.                                                    4
C. Staffing.. .....  4
D.  Personnel Management .... ... ... ... .                         5
E. Training .   . . . . . .                                         6
F.  Financial Administration                                        7
G.  Government Policies and Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
H.  Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . 11
I.  External Financing of Public Administration and Management . 15
III. THE PROJECT .15
A.  Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B.  Project Objectives and Scope .. ...... ... . 16
C. Project Strategy . ...     ...     ...* 17
D. Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and post-appraisal
missions to Bangladesh in February/March and December 1982. Mission members
included Richard A. Cambridge (Mission Leader), Vasilios C. Demetriou, and
Avyeris Andonyadis (World Bank), Thomas Schmidt and Ragaa Makharita
(Consultants).
| Thisdocumenthasarestricteddistributionand maybeusedbyrecipientsonlyintheperformanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
A.  Total Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
B.  Financing Plan ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 28
C. Recurrent Expenditures .................. . 30
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
A. Project Management/Administration .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
B. Procurement  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 32
C. Disbursements and Auditing ................ . 33
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ....  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 34
A.  Benefits ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . .  . .  . . . . . 34
B. Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .   . 35
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ANNEXES
1 - Bangladesh:  Administrative Structure
2 - Grades and Scales of Pay
3 - Bangladesh Civil Service:  Functional Cadres and Sub-Cadres
4 - Bangladesh:  Training Institutions for Public Servants(by Sector)
5 - Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
6 - Project Costs
Table 1 - Component by Time
Table 2 - Summary Account by Time
Table 3 - Summary Account by Project Component
Table 4 - Category of Expenditure
Table 5 - Summary of Estimated Cost of Salaries of Additional Staff
7 - Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
8 - Implementation Schedule
9 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHART
Organization of the Public Administration Training Center (PATC)
MAP
Map of Bangladesh Showing Project Institutions



-1-
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
Development administration is an action-oriented and goal-oriented
administrative system. Its central focus is the role of administrative
leadership in the initiation, direction, and management of the interdependent
processes of nation-building and socio-economic progress. It refers not only
to the administration of development programs but also to the building of
administrative institutions and strengthening of administrative capabilities
to handle the complex processes of change. These two aspects, the
administration of development and the development of administration, are
equally important, and both are indispensable to the administrative system in
order for it to play the substantive, managerial, social, and political roles
so necessary to achieving developmental goals in any society. The sig-
nificance of development administration in Bangladesh cannot be overem-
phasized. Public administration assumes particular importance in a country
where the public sector occupies a key position in the total development
effort and where a large segment- of the private sector comes under the
regulatory and promotional influence of the government. In Bangladesh, the
traditional regulatory functions of the state have multiplied since independ-
ence, and at the same time, the administrative system has become so involved
with the process of growth that the administrative agencies are no longer
merely an arrangement to administer, control, and monitor development but are
indispensable parts of the development process itself. In Bangladesh, "the
issue of the development of public administration has moved from the
periphery to the very center of the country's development effort." 1/
I. THE ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF BANGLADESH
1.01    The Present Organization.  The Bangladesh Goverment is organized into
three major administrative functions: the management of national Minis-
tries/Divisions and their Attached Departments; the management of District
Government; and Local Self Government. At present, there are 19 Ministries
including the Chief Martial Law Administrator's (CMLA) Office, 42 Divisions
2/ 179 Attached Departments and Directorates and 136 Autonomous Bodies.
1/ Second Five-Year Plan 1980-85, Para 18.118, Planning Commission, GOB,
May 1980.
2/ There are 4 geographic divisions in the country and 42 administrative
Divisions which are part of Ministries.



The Secretariat is the nerve center of this administrative organism aind it is
here that administrative policies are conceived and sent to the Departments
for execution (Annex 1).
1.02    The Public Service.  The Public Service, which operates the 19 Minis-
tries of the government, is organized along class and pay grade lines (Annex
2). Of the 22,654 Class I officers, approximately 5,500 are organized into
14 cadres and 14 sub-cadres or occupational groups (The Civil Service, Annex
3). The encadered officers are the elite of the public service, and dominate
both the Secretariat and Agencies. Members of this group are recruited by
the Public Service Commission (PSC) through a competitive examination and
enter a lifetime career in the public service. Non-encadered officers are
recruited either by the PSC or by specific ministries for positions in
development projects. However, incumbents may continue for many years by
renewal of their contracts. Non-encadered officers do not enjoy the benefits
of belonging to an occupational "guild" or cadre, and as such, have access to
only limited reserved posts and lack steady promotional possibilities.
1.03    The Establishment Division.  The Establishment Division is the
central personnel agency of the Government. It is divided into four Wings 1/
and provides a range of services to the Ministries/Agencies and Autonomous
Bodies of government. The Division is responsible for recruitment (along
with PSC), posting, and promotions for all grades of public servants. The
Division develops rules, regulations, and administrative procedures which
govern the Ministries (Secretariat), and the district (local) administration.
Finally, it is supposed to provide management services by approving and
assisting government agencies on all matters relating to organization, staff-
ing and procedures. The Division works well as a control agency, but its
strictly personnel and management functions remain weak. It has, however,
been the lead agency for implementing several reforms which affect the civil
service including the establishment of a unified Bangladesh Civil Service and
the creation of a Senior Service Pool (paras 2.10, 2.11). The Government has
developed a policy linking promotion in the civil service to training as well
as performance and experience. The Establishment Division has been charged
with administering this policy through its coordination of the activities of
the public administration training institutions, i.e., Civil Officers Train-
ing Academy (COTA), National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA),
Bangladesh Administrative Staff College (BASC), and the Staff Training
Institutes (STI).
1/ Regulation; Organization and Methods (O&M); Appointments, Promotions,
and Deputations (APDW); Administration. In addition, there are three
Cells which report directly to the Secretary: (i) Training and Career
Planning, (ii) Chittagong Hill Tracts, and (iii) Upgraded Thanas.



-3-
1.04    The Public Service Training System.  The Government has established
a network of training institutions which provide both general administra-
tion/management and sector-specific technical training to public servants
(Annex 4). The principal administrative and management training institutions
are organized under the Establishment Division, while the sectcral training
institutions are operated by the respective line ministries. Some institu-
tions offer pre-service programs, but the majority are in-service oriented.
Administration and management training is offered to all officers recruited
by the PSC at the Grade 10 level (entry level Class I). They are required to
successfully complete a 22-week foundation program at COTA before confirma-
tion by the PSC. After about 10-12 years of service, when the officer
attains the rank of Deputy Secretary, or the equivalent in a Department,
Autonomous Body or Corporation, he is required to participate in a 15-week
Advanced Course in Administration and Development (ACAD) at NIPA. Finally,
when the officer reaches the level of a Joint Secretary (after about 15 years
service) or above, he receives senior administrator training in a 12-week
course on administration and management at BASC. Clerical staff receive
training at the Staff Training Institutes. The Government has amalgamated
the activities of these institutions (COTA, NIPA, BASC, and STI) into a
single Public Administration Training Center (PATC) located at Savar, with
four regional centers at Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, and Rajshahi (para 2.13).
Throughout the civil servant's career, he is allowed to undertake training in
specialized technical, and other short management and administration courses
offered by the various institutions.
II. PROBLEMS AND POLICIES OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
2.01    The lack of an efficient public administration system is endemic to
most developing countries and is particularly critical in the case of
Bangladesh where it hampers the Government's ability to implement and effec-
tively manage national development programs. This is the result of several
major problems.
2.02    Management of the Civil Service.  There have been several changes of
government in Bangladesh each with its impact upon how the civil service is
managed. Immediately after independence, the new Government took the posi-
tion that "they (the administrators) can be neither innovators nor catalytic
agents for social change ...  it is only the political cadre which can mobi-
lize the masses and transform their pattern of behavior." 1/ The Government
followed this by issuing Presidential Order No. 9, which gave the President
power to dismiss any officer without any right of appeal, and Article 135 of
Constitution was amended to make such decisions final. The Government also
1/ First Five-Year Plan (1973-1978), GOB, Dhaka, 1973.



-4-
systematically appointed non-civil servants and officers of the former East
Pakistan Civil Service (EPCS) to senior posts in the Secretariat, sometimes
at the expense of their more senior colleagues of the Civil Service of Pakis-
tan (CSP) who had been serving in Pakistan at the time of liberation. These
actions had an adverse effect on officer morale and upon the efficiency of
the civil service. From 1974 onward, the position changed when successive
economic and administrative failures forced the President to turn to his
administrative bureaucracy for help. The increasingly active participation
of the administrators in the affairs of state brought them to the forefront.
The civil servants have played an important role in managing the state from
November 1975. However, the relationship between soldier and administrator
has its own problems and from time to time this tension has affected perfor-
mance of the system.
2.03    Organization:  The inherited colonial administrative structure, the
devastating aftermath of the War of Liberation, and the relatively short time
since independence to train and organize for the development goals of an
independent nation are factors which have contributed to the current
organizational structures and procedures in Bangladesh. The Government has
expanded rapidly from the days when the maintenance of order and the collec-
tion of revenues were the major functions of its public administration.
Current demands for multi-sector coordination, rapid and effective implemen-
tation of complex development projects, and the need for specialization has
led to a number of organizational modifications. These modifications,
although designed to lessen administrative problems, are today far less
efficient than they could be, and have created three major problems of
organization: First, authority and control mechanisms are concentrated at
the upper levels of government. The custom of making both policy and
implementation decisions at the Secretariat level has the effect of slowing
down decision making. Further, by forcing decisions upward to those who are
far removed from the project implementation responsibilities, decisions are
based on too little information and experience. Second, in an attempt to
manage a growing bureaucracy with inadequately trained officers, the Govern-
ment has fragmented its organization into ever smaller units. Multi-sector
coordination is hampered by this fragmentation, and the multitude of commit-
tees set up to provide coordination, more often than not, only serve to slow
the process of coordination until the issue is referred to a higher authority
for decision. Third, the government has attempted to cope with the scarcity
of well-trained staff for specific jobs by providing procedures, rules, and
regulations to cover every imaginable contingency. As a result, large num-
bers of lower-level staff exist in every ministry whose only function is to
review requests, and to assure that procedures are complied with. Extensive
delays occur because there is little reliance on the initiative, discretion
and judgement of individual officers working within well understood general
principles and guidelines.
2.04    Staffing.  Bangladesh's public service is characterized by under-
staffing at the top and overstaffing at the lower levels. This is an



-5-
inevitable outcome of the country's recent evolution and an economy where
there are few opportunittes for employment in the modern sector outside the
public service. In 1971, the Government was faced with the problem of creat-
ing a national administraion out of the remnants of the CSP and the EPCS. It
was estimated that for the 454,500 civilians of all grades working in govern-
ment offices/bodies, there were only 320 officers holding the ranks of
Secretary, Additional Secretary, and Joint Secretary. 1/ By 1973, total
employment in the public service had risen to over 650,000.  However,
officers of these grades totalled only 660, while at the lower grades (Grade
III) there were over 300,000. 2/ It is clear that one of the biggest dif-
ficulties of the new Government was the absorption of persons who had politi-
cal or social claims on employment because of their service during the war of
liberation. Although there are still policies reserving posts for Freedom
Fighters and others, the Government has taken several steps to reduce growth,
3/ such as a freeze on hiring for jobs at certain levels, delaying appoint-
ments, and reducing the percentage of reserved positions. In addition, the
Government has now embarked on a policy to reduce and eventually eliminate
Class IV employees. The major problem with these policies aimed at contain-
ing the growth of the Public Service is that they are adhoc and based on a
non systematic analysis of the needs of the various ministries and attached
departments. Without the streamlining of methods, rules and procedures, and
the attendant organizational adjustments, manpower planning and allocation
policies are likely to remain too general and based on ill defined
priorities.
2.05    Personnel Management.  The goals of the Government in the area of
personnel management are "equitable opportunities of advancement ... on the
basis of merit performance ...  supported by adequate recruitment policies
... performance evaluation in relationship to specific job requirements ...
necessary personnel records and career planning in administration to promote
administrative specialization and to provide long range career perspectives."
4/ While the basis for an adequate personnel system exists in the Estab-
lishment Division, it is hampered by four major problems: First, for the
Government to be able to recruit, train, place and promote public servants
1/ Statistics on Civil Employees of the Government of Bangladesh, GOB,
Dhaka, 1972.
2/ Report of the National Pay Commission, GOB, Dhaka, 1973.
3/ The Government has, in its recent reorganization of the Secretariat,
declared about 3,380 staff as surplus for regular appointments. Most
have, however, been absorbed in on-going development projects or sent to
the Thana administration.
4/ Second Five Year Plan 1980-1985, (para 18.161), GOB, 1980.



-6-
based on requirements and merit, a data base with the following elements is
necessary: job analysis to describe the education, skills, training and
performance necessary for positions; job descriptions for recruitment, place-
ment, performance evaluation, and promotion; and historical records of
individual officers education, training, performance and experience. These
data are lacking in the Establishment Division. Further, the capacity to
analyze data and present it in a form useful for decision making is also
lacking. Second, personnel in the Establishment Division, the ministries and
other agencies such as the Implementation Division (wage and benefits), the
PSC (recruitment), and the Superior Selection Board (promotions), lack ade-
quate training in the basic functions of personnel administration, data
collection and analysis, and in the systematic presentation and use of infor-
mation for personnel decisions. Third, the rules, many of them, highly
prescriptive and dating from the colonial period need to be simplified,
contradictions need to be removed, and the rules need to be published in a
format which can be easily updated. Fourth, the overall trend in remunera-
tion, the relative salaries of generalists and specialists, and the competi-
tion among the private sector, overseas employment and the public sector for
the limited supply of trained manpower are all matters which a personnel
system should manage. In Bangladesh, the system has only been partially
successful in undertaking these tasks. The first Government, faced with a
war-ravaged economy attempted to down-play motivation through salary dif-
ferentials and instituted a policy of meeting minimum needs. When a new
Government took over in 1977, it developed the present standard of 21 pay
grades (Annex 2). The Government has continued to make incremental shifts in
the benefits paid, by re-establishing positions at a higher grade where
scarce talent or difficult service conditions require inducements and greater
benefits. There has also been a desire generally to raise wages to overcome
the erosion by inflation, but this has been discouraged in light of scarce
domestic resources. When the Government is able to once again address the
question of overall wages and benefits, the need for basic data and staff
experienced in salary administration will become evident.
2.06    Training.  The education system, which provides the educational
background for recruits to the civil service, has only recently begun to
produce a number of graduates trained in public administration. Recent
changes in admissions examinations for the public service reflects this
curriculum shift, so that admission tests are no longer biased toward those
with liberal arts degrees. However, the in-service training provided to
officers of all levels is inadequate. The training institutions for civil
servants are poorly housed, minimally staffed, too small to handle the
required load, and are only just begining to provide a curriculum that is
oriented to the actual job requirements of their students. Trainers are not
professionalized and have no career path. In fact, officers are sometimes
assigned as instructors to training institutions as a form of punishment.
The entire training load for Class III public servants is borne by the Staff
Training Institute (STI). Its current classroom approach to training cleri-
cal staff can hardly make an impact in its potential training clientele of



-7-
over 300,000. Class II supervisory staff have no institution where training
specifically tailored to their functions is undertaken. Finally, there is no
data base derived from job descriptions and job analysis to rationalize
training requirements at any level.
2.07    Financial Administration.  The present budgeting, auditing and
accounting systems are outmoded and impair effective utilization of develop-
ment funds. In the area of budgeting, the chief weakness is the tendency to
include many more projects in the Annual Development Program (ADP) than can
in fact be adequately financed during the year. As a consequence, stringent
fund (Taka) release procedures have been devised and put in operation in
order to allocate and, in a sense, ration scarce resources among the exces-
sive numbers of projects contained in the ADP. These procedures, however,
cannot easily discriminate among projects as to their priority, making it
inevitable that all projects tend to suffer implementation delays related to
financing difficulties. This situation is exacerbated by: (a) a shortage of
trained staff in line ministries as well as the Planning Commission to carry
out project appraisals; and (b) within the ADP, the inclusion of a substan-
tial number of unapproved projects which often have not been subjected to
even a cursory examination of technical and economic feasibility. 1/ As
regards auditing and accounting per se, the present system is too centralized
and the procedures are not geared to meet the needs of decentralized
administration and development. Audit and accounting operations are unified
under the office of the Auditor and Controller General, and this severely
complicates an already cumbersome system.
Government Policies and Programs
2.08    Second Five Year Plan (1980-1985).  The Government's objectives for
the public administration sector are clearly articulated in the Second Five
Year Plan. 2/ They include: (a) upgrading the knowledge and skill in the
public services by imparting universal and compulsory training in administra-
tion and management through functional and integrated training programs; (b)
introducing career planning and personnel policy in administration to promote
specialization and professionalism in the public service; (c) strengthening
action research activities in administration and management development as a
continuous process; (d) strengthening organization and methods systems in
Government in order to rationalize systems, procedures and structures to
increase organizational efficiency and effectiveness; (e) rationalizing and
simplifying accounting, budgeting and financial control procedures so that
they become geared to the needs of a decentralized administration and ensure
1! Bangladesh: Recent Economic Developments and Selected Development
Issues, (para 10.6-10.7), World Bank, Washington, D. C., March 3, 1982.
2/ Second Five Year Plan 1980-85 (para 19.141), GOB, Dhaka, 1980.



-8-
greater accountability; (f) providing necessary training support to local
bodies to transform them into viable and self-contained development planning,
implementation and administration units geared to the needs of decentraliza-
tion and rural development; (g) appropriate control of corruption and
malpractices in public services; and (h) enhancing the efficiency of public
servants through the provision of welfare facilities. In order to ensure
greater coordination and effectiveness of this integrated national
administration and management development policy, the Establishment Division
was selected to serve as the focal point and given the lead role for programs
in personnel training, administrative research and systems modernization
which constitute the largest components of the development program in the
sector. 1/
2.09    Prior to, and also as a result of the broad policies outlined in the
SFYP, the Government with the Establishment Division as the lead agency, has
taken several steps to address the problems which affect the sector (paras
2.01-2.07). The Report of the Pay and Services Commission of 1977 recom-
mended the creation of a Senior Policy Pool, a unified civil service, and a
single classless grading structure covering all the services with equal
starting salaries, uniform retirement and pension rules and other conditions
of service and equitable opportunity for rising to the top of their respec-
tive cadres. 2/ The Services (Grades, Pay and Allowances) Order was issued on
December 1977. It provided for 21 grades and scales of pay (Annex 2). The
Order created tension among various groups because it produced anomalies at
different levels, but modifications were made to overcome these. The basic
framework has remained in place until today.
2.10    The Senior Policy Pool was created in 1979.  It comprises the top
levels of the administrative hierarchy and is supposed to operate as a top
flight "think tank" and provide executive leadership. The Pool is also
supposed to serve as a tool to equalize the status of officers from the CSP
and EPCS since all senior officers of the rank of Deputy Secretary and above
are eligible for the Pool. The Policy Pool provides that any officer with 10
years of Class I service will be eligible for any test which the Public
Service Commission would furnish for entry into the Pool. As of March 1982,
there were about 685 officers in the Pool of which 40 were military officers.
The Pool purportedly stands for free and open representation for all the
services in key positions in the Secretariat, and to that extent it repre-
sents a forward-looking step.
1/ SFYP, para 18.142.
2/ Report of the Pay and Service Commission. Part I; The Services,
GOB, Dhaka, 1977.



-9-
2.11    The Bangladesh Civil Service(BCS) as a unified career service was
created in September 1980. The BCS has fourteen cadres and some cadres have
two or more sub-cadres (Annex 3). The new service refers only to Class I
officers and was established to replace the former unstructured and confusing
system created at independence through an amalgamation of former CSP and
EPCS.  All new recruits to the BCS are selected through competitive examina-
tions. They are eligible for appointment to the posts of Deputy Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Additional Secretary, and Secretary after 10, 15, 18 and 20
years of service respectively. Before such appointments, however, they have
to undergo departmental examinations and other tests. There is no reserva-
tion of any post for any cadre under the system. The age limit at the entry
level is fixed at 21 to 27 years and retirement at 57 years. 1/
2.12    Administrative Reorganization.  In the latter part of 1982, the
Government made significant changes in the organization of government and the
deployment of its staff. It completed the reorgnization of the Secretariat
by reducing the number of Ministries from 44 to 19 and cutting staff from
9,440 to 6,118. The Government is also proceeding with the reorganization
of the 179 Attached Departments and Autonomous Bodies. Surplus staff are now
being retrained and posted to the Thana level of administration. In addition
to the obvious economies generated by these changes, the Government is hope-
ful that this streamlining will increase the efficiency of its operations. A
central aspect of this strategy is the strengthening of Thana administration,
or "bringing government closer to the village." Under this policy, the
administration of each Thana would have 258 officers and staff who would be
under the control of the elected chairman of the Thana Parishad and be
responsible for the implementation of Thana development schemes. 21
2.13    Training.  The Government has developed a plan for improving public
administration and management training at all levels. It has developed a
consortium under a unified managment, for the four civil service training
institutions and relocated them from their scattered facilities around Dhaka
to the Public Administraion Training Center (PATC) at Savar and four regional
centers located at Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna and Rajshahi. The plan which
initially called only for a sharing of common facilities was approved by the
Economic Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) in March 1981.
Since then, the momentum towards the total integration of faculty, staff and
programs has increased, and the final definition of this integration was
reached in November 1982. Construction of the physical facilities at Savar
started in early 1982 and is now well advanced. Construction of three
1/ Bangladesh Civil Service Recruitment Rules 1981, Cabinet Secretariat,
Establishment Division, Dhaka, January 1, 1981.
2/ Resolution on Reorganization of Thana Administration, CMLA Secretariat,
Dhaka, October 1982.



-10-
regional centers at Khulna, Rajshahi and Chittagong is also advanced. The
'Dhaka regional center will occupy the former COTA facilities in Dhaka. In
addition to the organization of the PATC, the Government has moved ahead with
developing a training policy. It has made training for all civil servants
compulsory [para 2.08 (a)] and has issued orders that promotion of officers
will be linked to the successful completion of specified training programs.
1/ A National Training Council (NTC) has also been formally established and
charged to: (a) formulate and review the National Training Policy; (b) issue
guidelines regarding new priorities in training matters; (c) review perfor-
mances and achievements of training; and (d) examine the effectiveness of
training in terms of linkages with the education system, personnel
administration and economic development. Finally, the Training and Career
Planning Cell (TCPC) has been created in the Establishment Division to serve
as the Secretariat to the NTC. The Appointments, Promotions and Deputation
Wing (APDW) will undertake the development of a new personnel management
systemn where recruitment, placement, performance evaluation and promotion
would be coordinated.
2.14    Financial Management. In order to improve its capacity to implement
projects, the Government in 1976/77 gave project managers much greater func-
tional autonomy and the complex procedures for the allocation of funds were
simplified. 2/ To upgrade the performance of the public sector corporations,
the Government has undertaken, with IDA assistance, the expansion and upgrad-
ing of the quality of instruction at the Institute of Business Administration
(IBA), the Bangladesh Management Development Center (BMDC) and the Faculties
of Commerce of the Universities of Dhaka, Chittagong and Rajshahi. More
recently (April 1982), the Government decided that the role of the private
sector would be increased, and the operations of the public sector corpora-
tions curtailed. To assist the private sector, a program for the further
development of extension services provided by the Investment Advisory Center
and the BMDC has been prepared. As a means of addressing the problems of
auditing and accounting, the Government established a separate directorate to
service only foreign-aided projects, and to give accounting services to
project agencies. The Audit and Accounting Training Academy is also being
1/ Bangladesh Civil Service Recruitment Rules, Para 1.17.
2/ (a) Procedures for release of funds to Autonomous and Semi-Autonomous
Agencies for: Execution of Development Projects,
Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, February 1976;
(b) Creation of New Posts and Retention of Temporary Posts against
Development Projects, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance,
1976; and
(c) Modification of the Financial Advisers Scheme along with
Delegation of Financial Powers, Expenditure Control Division,
Ministry of Finance, March 1977.



-11-
strengthened in order to improve and update the methods, techniques, and
practices used in this area. An Accounting Manual based on guidelines given
by IDA has also been prepared. Lastly, in the area of budgeting, par-
ticularly as it relates to the ADP process (para 2.07), government has begun
an extensive dialogue with IDA, and at the same time taken several steps to
streamline the process. It has expanded the scope and functions of the
Resource Committee by establishing a Secretariat. This is expected to
improve resource planning and monitoring. A system has also been devised to
generate information on a regular basis, on sectoral expenditures and also
expenditures on important projects or programs. In development budgeting, a
new system has been instituted, including a core development budget which
would not only meet the problem of uncertain resource availability, but also
provide for careful programing of development outlays and implementation
efficiency. Two other important aspects of the new system are that: (a) as a
general rule, no project would be included in the ADP unless at least, the
Project Proforma (PP) has been reviewed by the Planning Commission at the
time of ADP finalization; and (b) financial authority of a greater magnitude,
has been delegated to project Directors so that they no longer require
reference to any other authority for creation of posts, puchase of stationery
and equipment for approved projects. Finally, GOB decided to provide spe-
cialized training to officials of the Planning Commission and the planning
cells of various ministries and agencies, at the newly established Training
Academy for Planning and Development. Courses would focus on project for-
mulation, project appraisal, programming, implementation, and monitoring and
evaluation.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
2.15    Against this background of problems (para 2.02-2.07) and policy
responses (2.09-2.14), the need to strengthen public administration is
obvious and urgent. The Government-s demonstrated willingness to face these
issues and to seek feasible remedies implies that IDA should continue to work
with, and support financially where necessary, efforts in the right direc-
tion. In this context a number of actions are possible and necessary.
First, the structural collnstraints which impede effective management should be
removed. In other words, decisions would have to be made to undertake fun-
damental, organizational, administrative and functional changes in the civil
service system. These decisions are politically difficult but some progress
has already been made (paras 2.10-2.13), and they warrant support. The most
recent decision to consolidate 44 Ministries into 19, reorganize the attached
Departments and Directorates, declare staff surplus, strengthen the lowest
level of administration (Thana), and the statements of the new leadership on



-12-
administrative reform, are steps in the right direction and a clear indication
that Government is serious about increasing administrative efficiency. 1/
Second, a program of strengthening the civil service through the recruitment,
placement and promotion of suitably qualified and trained personnel should be
undertaken. This means that a personnel management system capable of such
tasks must be developed. Third, programs of training which are more practi-
cal and tied to job-related competencies must be implemented at the public
administration training institutions. Fourth, a program of management train-
ing more directly related to public sector corporations, autonomous agencies
and the private sector is fully warranted. Fifth and finally, a program to
refine the organization, procedures, and methods of administration is essen-
tial. This five point strategy should logically be an integrated program to
encompass new recruits as well as middle-level and senior managers in the
Ministries, Attached Departments, Autonomous Bodies and Public Sector Cor-
porations.
2.16    Previous Bank Group Assistance to Management Training.  The Bank has
consistently maintained in its dialogue with GOB that effective programs for
removing the management deficiencies and constraints were a sine qua non for
enhancing Bangladesh's capability to implement and manage its development
programs. The IBRD Education and Training Sector Memorandum (Report
2037a-BD), among others, reviewed in considerable detail the dimensions of
management constraints and concluded that despite the complexities surround-
ing the problem, the basic ingredients for promoting effective management
improvement programs did exist in the country. Notwithstanding the above,
past IDA assistance in regard to managment development has been rather
limited given the fact that management development issues are complex, con-
straints are deep rooted and long-term resolution of the problems call for
comprehensive efforts. To date five IDA credits totalling about US$ 105.8
million 2/ have been made to the Education and Training Sector in Bangladesh.
Except for Credit 912-BD (which provides technical assistance for training
1,500 first-line supervisors in vocational and some managerial skill,
development of in-plant training, and overseas training of sector corpora-
tions training officers), none of the first four projects were aimed at the
1/  See Lt. General Ershad-s speech of March 24 on assuming power
as Chief Martial Law Administrator and Mr. A.M.A. Muhith's (Adviser
to the Chief Martial Law Administrator in charge of the Ministry
of Finance and Planning) speech to the Paris Aid Group on April 20,
1982.
2/  Agriculture and Technical Education (407-BD, US$ 21.0 million)
Agriculture and Rural Training (621-BD, US$ 12.0 million)
Vocational Training (912-BD, US$ 25.0 million)
Primary Education (1054-BD, US$ 40.0 million)
Business Management Education and Training (US$ 7.8 million)



-13-
overall development of managem_nt education and training programs in
Bangladesh. However, IDA has financed various studies by consultants,
designed to assist managers in improving organizational arrangements and
procedures for their agencies. Some middle level managers have also received
training under iarious IDA-assisted projects. For example, project managers
of IDA supported agriculture projects are receiving management training under
the Agricultural Management Development Program (AMDP) component of credit
621-BD. Under Credit 1065-BD, technical assistance including overseas train-
ing for local officers, was provided to improve sub-project review and
refinance capabilities of the Bangladesh Bank, as well as appraisal and
supervision capabilities of credit institutions financing small scale
industries. Training of mid-level managers in various public sector
enterprises is being financed under the Jute and Fertilizer Rehabilitation
Projects (Credits 1023-BD and 1032-BD, respectively). Most of these inter-
ventions were somewhat ad hoc assistance to various industrial sector opera-
tions designed to assist them overcome some of their immediate management
constraints, particularly as they related to the implementation of the
respective IDA projects, but did not address the larger institutional and
organizational problems of public administration and the management of the
development process. More recently, IDA has (a) financed the services of a
consultant to carry out a training needs survey, as a preamble to the govern-
ments preparation of a training plan and policy; (b) supervised and managed
the preparation study for the proposed project which was undertaken by the
IPA and Bangladesh consultants (para 2.20); and (c) supported business
management education and training under a recently approved project. 1/ The
recently approved business management training project represents a major
effort by IDA to assist in expanding and improving the quality of business
management training in Bangladesh. It will focus mainly on the needs of the
public sector corporations, and its objectives are complementary to those
of the proposed project.
2.17    Implementation of On-going Education Sector Projects.  Performance
in implementation has been generally marked by delays especially with the
first project. Since then, however, the situation has improved steadily,
despite the fact that subsequent projects have generally become more complex
in design and objectives. The following summary of progress of each project
describes the experiences and measures taken to overcome problems. The First
Education Project (Credit 407-BD) was completed two and one-half years behind
schedule. The main factors causing delays were (a) difficulties in
renegotiating pre-war contracts for professional services, (b) shortages of
building materials, (c) frequent changes in project management, and (d)
shortage of local funds. Preliminary indications are that BAU has now become
the main source of trained higher level agricultural manpower in the country.
1/ Bangladesh: Business Management Education and Training Project,
Report No. 3783-BD, December 29, 1982.



-14-
The introduction of new programs designed to improve the practical skills of
students and to increase their involvement in extension and research, has
made the university's program more relevant. Experts recruited under the
Second Education Project, will further assist BAU define its role in train-
ing, research and extension. The Second Education Project (Credit 621-BD)
is due for completion in June 1983, after a one and half year extension. The
project has suffered, to a lesser extent, from those problems encountered
under the first project. The physical aspects of development have proceeded
relatively satisfactorily, with most buildings and facilities having been
completed without undue delay. The overall coordination of the project, a
responsibility of the National Committee for Rural Training (NCRT), has,
however, been weak. As a consequence of the AMDP training (para 2.15), this
has improved considerably. However, although the output of the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATIs) has been achieved, the quality of training so far
is less than satisfactory.
2.18    Under the Third Education Project (Credit 921-BD) in order to
strengthen implementation capacity and to avoid repetition of earlier delays,
special arrangements were made which included (a) approval of the PP, and
signing of the Technical Assistance Contract as conditions of credit effec-
tiveness, (b) establishing a revolving fund to avoid delays caused by taka
shortages, (c) hiring a Project Manager with wide experience in project
management/implementation, (d) training of PIU staff, (e) hiring a local
consultant to design a project accounting system which would integrate IDA
and GOB's financial requirements, and (f) appointing local counterparts to
expatriate consultants as a condition of disbursement. There is every
indication that the above measures have alleviated problems experienced under
the first two projects, but not completely overcome them. The internal
weakness of the sponsoring Directorate has made it difficult for the PIU to
operate fully and independently. The device of a revolving fund has also not
worked as well as envisaged, and delays still occur which affect implementa-
tion. In the Fourth Education Project (Credit 1054-BD), further attempts
have been made to strengthen administrative arrangements and implementation
capacity. Special efforts have been made to see that the central PIU is
adequately staffed in all functional areas, and that seven smaller Regional
Project Units were established at the local level. All project staff under-
went a training program during the first year of the project to familiarize
them with project concepts and objectives. Progress has been steady since it
was declared effective in December 1980. Actions taken to ensure efficent
implementation under the Fifth Project relate more to the level of prepara-
tion before credit effectiveness, and are expected to overcome the problems
encountered in the Third Project. It is still too early, however, to assess
fully their effectiveness. These experiences have been taken into considera-
tion in designing the implementation organization necessary to carry out the
proposed project successfully.
2.19    In addition to project activities, the Bank has completed two sector
studies in education and training: The Education and Training Sector



-15-
Memoranda of July 1979 (Report No. 2037-BD) and August 1981 (Report No.
3548-BD). IDA has also assisted the Government in preparing a Medium-Term
Education Plan (MTEP) in order to facilitate the implementation of a core of
high priority education and training projects in the Second Five Year Plan
(1980-85).
External Financing of Public Administration and Management Training
2.20    The UNDP has recognized the critical nature and importance of public
administration and management training in Bangladesh and has helped
strengthen existing programs and develop new ones. It has so far committed
US$ 3,615,867 to the sector. A UNDP/ILO project called "Assistance to the
National Management Development Program (BGD/74/011, March 1977 - March 1981)
provided assistance to the BMDC to upgrade its training programs, staff and
facilities at a total project cost of about US$ 2.0 mill-iorn. It has financed
(US$ 888,498) the services of experts and consultants from training institu-
tions in the Asia and Pacific region, fellowships and study tours to the same
institutions, as well as training equipment for the institutions in
Bangladesh, particularly NIPA. It has also financed (US$ 250,000) the
pre-investment study undertaken by the Institute of Public Administration
(IPA) and Bangladesh consultants to prepare the proposed project. Finally,
UNDP has embarked on a program of supporting the development of planning
cells in various ministries. To date it has financed (US$ 477,369) a cell in
the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and agreed in principle to a
Technical Assistance Coordination Cell in the External Resources Division of
the Ministry of Finance. Proposals are being considered for the Ministry of
Local Government and Rural Development, Ports and Shipping, Water and Flood
Control, and Power. The UNDP is also considering assistance to the Customs
Administration for the streamlining of customs procedures. The Ford Founda-
tion financed the establishment of IBA and allocated US$ 50,000 to COTA for
the development of its research cell.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
3.01    In September 1977, an IDA mission visited Bangladesh to review the
Education and Training sector and identified public administration and
management training as priority areas for IDA assistance. However, a number
of preliminary activities were required of the Government before IDA par-
ticipation could be confirmed. These were: (a) the preparation of an overall
civil service training plan which would include a detailed statement of
government training policy; and (b) clarification of the roles of existing
training institutions. While the Government was able to complete the latter
requirement rather quickly, the major activity of preparing a training plan
and policy remained outstanding until 1980 (para 2.13).  In the interim



-16-
period, IDA financed the services of a foreign consultant to conduct a Train-
ing Needs Survey which served as the basis for the Training Plan. As a
follow-up to the completion of this survey, IDA staff pointed out to the
Government and it agreed, that training alone could not overcome all of the
problems affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of public administration.
With this consensus, the Government agreed to investigate the need for, and
the means and costs of improving public administration training and manage-
ment standards and procedures. In February 1980, the IPA was selected to
undertake the study, and their activities were financed by UNDP (para 2.20).
The final report "Pre-investment Study of Public Administration Training and
Management Improvement in Bangladesh" was issued in June 1981. The major
recommendations were accepted by the Government. Three specific areas of the
Government's strategy (para 2.08) were earmarked as appropriate for assis-
tance under a public administration project, and these were: (a) managerial
and general administrative training; (b) personnel management; and (c)
organization and management services. In September 1981 and February 1982,
IDA teams conducted preparation/pre-appraisal and appraisal missions. The
proposed project is the result, and it focusses on developing institutional
capabilities in the three areas earmarked for external assistance by the
Government.
Project Objectives and Scope
3.02    The proposed project is the second IDA intervention in support of
management/administrative training, and is designed to assist the Government
in increasing the efficiency of the public service through improved and
expanded management/administrative training, upgraded personnel management
and better organization and management services. The broad goals of the
project are to support the strategy to increase the efficiency of public
administration (paras 2.08, 2.15) and to support the Government's continuing
effort to reform the civil service and the administrative environment in
which it works. Since project components would address only three specific
areas (para 3.01), the project objectives would be limited to:
(a) Improving managerial and general administrative training by
i) supporting the program to increase the enrollment capacity
of the PATC; and
ii) upgrading the quality of training imparted at the PATC.
(b) Strengthening the Establishment Division by
i) developing and instituting a modernized Personnel Management
Information System (PMIS); and
ii) establishing a Management Services Wing (MSW).



-17-
3.03    To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would assist the
government to: (a) expand the physical capacity of the PATC through the
construction and equipping of teaching facilities, library, administrative
buildings and a dormitory; (b) improve the quality of training at PATC
through providing fellowships and special training courses to upgrade the
teaching staff, increasing the relevance of curricula to training needs with
the assistance of experts, developing a program of research and case studies
and upgrading equipment and training materials; (c) enhance the present
system of personnel administration through the introduction of a modern
Personnel Management Information System with the assistance of experts and
reinforced by staff training and additional equipment and salary support for
incremental staff; (d) strengthen administrative systems and procedures
through the financing of experts, staff training, equipment and incremental
salaries to enhance the scope of the O&M Wing; and (e) upgrade project
management capability in the Establishment Division through provision of
staff training, equipment and incremental staff salaries for the PIW.
Project Strategy
3.04    Project assistance would be geared primarily towards improving the
quality of existing programs and to creating an institutional infrastructure,
including development of a pool of qualified and professionally trained
public administration teachers, researchers, trainers and consultants, who
would be able to develop the country's immediate and long-term need for a
cadre of professionally trained public administrators. Nearly 60% of the
investment would be for staff development, curriculum changes, textbooks,
research and overall pedagogical improvements. Less than 25% of the invest-
ment would be for the expansion of physical facilities. Any real attempt to
improve the quality of public administration education and training must
begin with the rigourous and high quality advanced training of the faculty in
relevant courses and in appropriate institutions. This pool of trained
manpower would then provide the core of a program to raise overall training
standards. The PATC faculty, drawn largely from the civil service, has not
been very strong, and this explains the relative weakness of these institu-
tions and their programs in the past. The development of a core of highly
qualified faculty is central to the strategy of qualitative improvement in
the institutions, but is not sufficient to ensure the desired improvements in
the teaching environment. This can only be improved with actions complemen-
tary to the raising of teacher's qualifications. To this end the project
would support: (a) the development of modernized, pratically-oriented cur-
ricula more relevant to development administration in Bangladesh; (b) better
equipped teaching facilities through the provision of relevant equipment and
teaching aids and upgraded libraries to support teaching and research; (c)
expansion of research activities and case development to give faculty greater



-18-
insight into local administrative problems; and (d) closer links with
national, district and local government.
3.05    Unless appropriate linkages between Government Ministries, Agencies,
etc., and trainers are created, public administration training will continue
to remain ineffective, and non-responsive to the needs of the administrative
system. By assisting in the creation and institutionalization of a modern-
ized Personnel Management Information System and a Management Services Wing,
staffing, organizational and procedural issues which are an integral part of
any strategy to improve public administration would be addressed. The close
involvement of PATC staff in the development of the PMIS would ensure
relevancy and an end-product which would facilitate promotion and placement
of suitable staff and guarantee that the investment in training civil ser-
vants would not be lost. The overall strategy is further enhanced by creat-
ing in government the capacity to analyze, review and change if necessary,
its organizational structures and operating procedures with the ultimate goal
of developing a competently staffed, and effective public administration
system.
Project Components
A. Improving Managerial and General Administrative Training
3.06    Public Administration Training Center (PATC)(Proposed outlay US$ 8.75
million). 1/ With the development of a comprehensive national administration
and management training policy which calls for the introduction of compulsory
professional training of all public servants [para 2.08 (a)], the PATC is
designed to undertake a coordinated and integrated training program within
the framework of this policy. The PATC, as an autonomous organization, is
be headed by a Board of Governers, with a Rector as the chief operating
officer. The institution is organized around five major departments: Public
Administration and Management; Economics, Program and Studies [including
Staff Training and Training of Trainers (TOT)]; Research and Consultancy, and
General Administration. Each Department is headed by a Member, Directing
Staff (MDS) with the rank of Joint Secretary or above. The PATC conducts: (a)
pre-service induction training for all BCS cadres; (b) administration and
management courses for officers at all levels; (c) refresher courses on
administrative and management principles and techniques for top executives,
including courses on the project development process in consultation with the
Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the World Bank; (d) courses to aug-
ment the proficiency and skills of the Class II and Class III staff; (e)
research in all related aspects of public administration, develops and pub-
lishes teaching and reference material drawn from administrative experiences
1/ This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays are baseline
estimates.



-19-
in Bangladesh and elsewhere with the view of conducting training with
reference to Bangladesh requirements, (f) consultancy and reference services
to the Government on different aspects of administration and management as
and when required; and (g) specialized courses, seminars, syndicates, and
conferences on all areas of public administration and management.
3.07    The new PATC facilities would increase training capacity from the
present level of 2,750 to around 5,000 per year. The proposed project would
assist in the capacity expansion program by financing the construction,
furniture and equipment for a 85,000 volume (150 reader) library and training
materials production center, a multi-purpose hall with a seating capacity of
500, with two lecture rooms of about 100 person capacity, a third wing to the
Central Administration Block and a 50 room hostel for senior level officers,
and additional classrooms, library and one 120 place capacity multipurpose
hall at the RPATCs in Rajshahi, Khulna and Chittagong. It would provide
furniture and equipment for the classrooms/ syndicate rooms and the Central
Administration Block at PATC, Savar and RPATC at Dhaka. The project would
also finance a self-contained teaching computer to assist in the analysis of
data which will be generated by the PMIS (para 3.12). This computer would be
compatible with the PMIS Computer (para 3.13) to the extent that it could
directly work with PMIS storage disks and software. The Government is
financing the remaining administrative, teaching, residential and common
facilities which are already under construction (para 2.13). During
appraisal, the mission reviewed the master layout plan of the PATC campus,
the preliminary designs of the buildings and master lists of equipment and
books to be financed under the credit. The mission found them satisfactory,
but requested some changes in the design of the multipurpose hall at Savar.
Revised designs for the multipurpose hall were submitted to IDA for review
prior to credit negotiations. The Government also prepared a revised Project
Proforma (PP) prior to negotiations. The approval of the revised PP is a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.08    In addition to capacity expansion, the proposed project would assist
in upgrading the quality of training at PATC. Quality improvements would be
facilitated through improved library facilities and training materials,
curriculum upgrading, the research program to be undertaken by the PATC, but
mainly by the staff development program designed to produce more capable
trainers. Staff development would be the result of two programs. The first
is a locally-oriented Training of Trainers program which would be organized
at PATC. It would be designed to train 120 trainers per year for a total
of 700 trainers over the project period. This would cover all of the
trainers in PATC and about 61% of the trainers in the civil service training
network. The program would emphasize training techniques and methodology,
and would at the same time develop training modules and films for use in
civil service training programs. The project would finance technical assis-
tance (local and expatriate), honoraria, stipends, and the cost of training
materials to support this program.



20-
3.09    The second program involves overseas training.  The project would
provide about 339 man-months of fellowships in order to upgrade the permanent
teaching staff of the PATC by allowing them to pursue advanced training in
specialized areas of Public Administration, Economics, Rural Development,
Personnel Administration and Business Education (Annex 5). Another 27
man-months of fellowships would be financed for short-term structured courses
in a number of administration, management, and training areas such as the
training of senior executives, training techniques, organizational develop-
ment, psychological testing, consulting techniques and learning measurement.
Because of the problems of attracting suitable staff to the training area
(para 2.06), during project preparation, the Government was asked to develop
ways and means of upgrading the quality and type of instructor staff going to
the PATC. The Government has now completed a plan which addresses this
issue. The plan which is linked to the autonomous status of the PATC,
details the recruitment rules for instructors (direct recruitment vs deputa-
tions), qualifications, experience, monetary (instructional allowances) and
non-monetary incentives, and links to career progression in the BCS. This
plan was reviewed by the appraisal mission and assessed as appropriate in the
Bangladesh context. Because the investment in overseas fellowships is rela-
tively expensive (US$ 1,500 per man-month), and the return of trainees to the
PATC important to the success of the project, the appraisal mission reviewed
the Government's bonding program and was assured that it would be effective
in ensuring the return of trainees to service in the training institutions.
3.10    Both the "Training of Trainers" and overseas fellowship programs
would be linked to the provision of technical assistance for curriculum and
program development (48 man-months). Expatriate experts would serve as
visiting professors and at the same time, undertake curriculum and program
development activities when the Bangladeshi instructors depart on their
fellowships. Simultaneous with their teaching, and as a part of their opera-
tional assignment, the visiting professors would prepare Bangladesh specific
materials for the specialized short courses to be developed for the other
instructors and Establishment Division staff. Because the curriculum for
supervisory training is outdated, it is envisaged that on-the-job training
techniques would be a central feature of the new curriculum and training
program for Class II officers. This type of training is expected to increase
once staff return to their departments. The PATC-s TOT and Staff Training
Department and MSW staff will work with the training officers in Government
Ministries/Departments to organize in-house training programs. In the Minis-
tries where the MSW will undertake its "methods" work, this would be closely
coordinated with supervisory level training (para 3.14). Expert assistance
would be required to develop this program. The project would finance 24
man-months of technical assistance in the areas of supervisory skills, report
writing and administrative communications. Because of the linkages between
these various types of technical assistance, the Government was asked to
identify a cooperating agency (anchor institution) prior to negotiations.
This agency/firm/university consortium would provide the visiting
experts/professors and also place and supervise the Bangladeshi instructors



-21-
in suitable training institutions abroad. The signing of a contract on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.11    A studies and case development program (250 man-months) would be
coordinated by the Research and Consultancy Department of the PATC. As a
priority, research and case studies would include topics of relevance to the
Establishment Division in its role as the central personnel agency of the
Government, and in particular, the development of the PMIS. Studies and case
development would be undertaken by the teaching faculty focussing on the
administrative and management problems which affect national, district and
local government administration and institutions. Studies would also focus on
improving training design, preparation of relevant training materials,
evaluation of training and establishing linkages between the training under-
taken and the organization, management and procedural improvements carried
out by the MSW in line Ministries under the project (para 3.15). During
appraisal, the mission discussed with the PATC staff, some broad areas/topics
for faculty research, studies and case development to be conducted under the
project. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that the
Research and Consultancy Department would prepare a comprehensive faculty
studies and case development program covering the five-year project implemen-
tation period, and would submit it to IDA for review and comment by September
30, 1983.
B. Strengthening the Establishment Division (Proposed Outlay US$ 1.14 mil-
lion)
3.12    Personnel Management Information System (PMIS)  The new PMIS would
consist of job descriptions, job analysis, performance appraisals, upgraded
individual officer files, a personnel manual of rules and regulations, and
computer facilities to speed the analysis and recovery of the data generated
by the other elements of the system. Job descriptions would be prepared for
positions held by Class I officers and would describe in detail the functions
to be performed in each position. At the same time, job analysis would
provide an understanding of the experience, skills and knowledge needed to
perform each job. Performance appraisal would be developed in order to
institute a method of assessing performance against agreed work programs and
job descriptions. Personnel files would be upgraded to include information
on performance, training, education, as well as wage and benefit data. The
Personnel Manual would rationalize and codify the scattered elements of
personnel rules and regulations. The PMIS would be managed by the Appoint-
ments, Promotions and Deputation Wing (APDW) in the Establishment Division.
The only PMIS activity which would not be directly under the APDW would be
the production and maintenance of the Personnel Manual which would remain
with the O&M Wing. The bringing together of information collection, storage
and analysis capabilities in a single unit will assure the necessary system
integration. The PATC Research and Consultancy, and Public Administration
and Management Departments (para 3.06) would be major users of the system



-22-
output and provide the Government with necessary studies of manpower develop-
ment.
3.13    The proposed project would support the establishment of the PMIS, by
financing 12 man-months of expatriate and 48 man-months of local technical
assistance, staff training in the form of 21 man-months of regional and
international fellowships and in-country seminars/workshops, salary support
for the incremental staff required for system development, and a small
self-contained computer (128 KB memory, diskette magazine drive and 257 MB
Disk). The Training and Career Planning Cell (TCPC) which acts as the
Secretariat of the NTC and the manager of training institutions (para 2.13)
would also be assisted under the project. The project would strengthen its
management functions by financing the training of staff (24 man-months) in
career development, including salary administration, and the management and
evaluation of training. During appraisal, the uses of the PMIS were dis-
cussed with all the relevant agencies and their concurrance obtained. During
negotiations, however, the Government provided assurances that: the job
analysis and job descriptions developed as part of the PMIS would be utilized
by training institutions in curriculum development and the preparation of
annual training plans; by the Ministry of Finance in salary administration,
and by selected Ministries in the preparation of their staffing plans. The
Government also provided an assurance that the performance appraisal system
would be utilized by the Establishment Division, the Superior Selection
Board, and the Council Committee on Promotions in making placements and
promotions.
3.14    The Management Services Wing (MSW)  Establishing the MSW would be
achieved by enlarging the scope of work of the O&M Wing of the Establishment
Division. The new MSW would focus on both improving office systems and
procedures and organizational development. These would be the on-going
central functions of the Wing, and during the project period, selected Minis-
tries would be the subject of these analyses. Work would be aimed, ini-
tially, at office systems such as records management, filing, copying, common
services, and the procedural rules which govern these matters. This would
result in a complete review and simplification of the Secretariat Instruc-
tions 1/ which contain the rules governing office procedures. The MSW would
also work closely with the staff of the TOT and Staff Training Department of
PATC because methods improvements would be central to the curriculum and
training program of the supervisory staff (para 3.10). In addition to this
methods  work, the Wing would also perform a more sophisticated service of
organization development aimed at those procedures, rules and regulations
which govern inter and intra agency information flow and decision making and
1/ Secretariat Instiuctions, Cabinet Secretariat.



-23-
would be reflected in appropriate sections of the Rules of Business. 1/ In
this case, MSW staff, working with data generated by the PMIS, would assist
Ministries in the development of more appropriate organizational patterns and
simpler coordination procedures. It would also reduce the demand for deci-
sion making at the higher levels (para 2.03) by instituting management con-
trol mechanisms such as management by objectives (MBO) and management by
exception (MBE). This would allow certain classes of decisions to be made at
points closer to actual project implementation and would allow the Government
to reformulate its rules governing the devolution of powers as contained in
Schedule I of the Rules of Business and in more detailed Office Orders of the
individual ministries. It is further expected that with the information of
the PMIS, the MSW in cooperation with PATC consultants, would be able to
advise Ministries on their staffing patterns, particularly at the lower
levels where overstaffing is prevalent (para 2.04).
3.15    The proposed project would support the establishment of this Wing, by
financing 60 man-months (30 expatriate, 30 local) of technical assistance, 48
man-months of fellowships, staff training (in-country seminars/workshops),
equipment and incremental staff salary support. The technical assistance
would comprise expatriate and local experts in organizational development for
three years who would work together to provide: (a) on-the-job training of
MSW staff to supplement their experience and education; (b) assistance in the
analyses of selected Ministries; and (c) assistance in defining the type of
new system that would make offices more efficient and effective. Local
consultants would be of particular importance to the success of this com-
ponent, as they would provide an intimate understanding of the cultural and
political issues which may not be apparent to expatriates. Because the tech-
nical assistance for the PMIS and MSW complement each other, the Government
was asked to identify a suitable agency/firm which would provide the
appropriate technical assistance. The signing of technical assistance con-
tract on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA is a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Government has prepared draft PPs for both the PMIS and
MSW, and their approval by ECNEC is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Management/Administration (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.45 million)
3.16    Project Management.  The proposed project would be managed by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Establishment Division. The PIU has already
been substantially established by expanding the existing project office which
was set up originally to implement the PATC building program. The office is
headed by an Additional Secretary who reports directly to the Secretary,
Establishment Division. He would be assisted by two Deputy Directors. One
Deputy Director would be responsible for the management and supervision of
1/ Rules of Business, 1975, Cabinet Division, Cabinet Secretariat, Dhaka,
1975.



-24-
the inputs to the training institutions including the coordination of fellow-
ship and in-country training programs and the PMIS and MSW components, and
the other for the management and supervision of the evaluation program. The
PIU would be further staffed with an evaluation officer a procurement officer
to manage the equipment procurement process, and a project accountant.
Implementation of PATC civil works would be carried out by the Public Works
Department (PWD) which is responsible for the administration of all aspects
of civil works including the awarding of contracts and on-site supervision.
The PWD has retained the firm of Engineering Consultants and Associates LTD
of Dhaka for the designs and top supervision. An executive engineer of PWD
is in charge of the overall civilworks program. In the interest of the
project, it was agreed during appraisal that (a) the construction of build-
ings to be financed under the Credit would be carried out under an integrated
contract for all aspects of construction including electrical and plumbing
works or at most by one contractor for each building, and (b) the involvement
of consultant Engineers and Architects during construction would be increased
to ensure at least one full-time staff of the firm on the site. Implementa-
tion of civil works in the RPATCs will be carried out by the regional offices
of the PWD. During the negotiations, the Government agreed to establish the
PIU with the appropriate staff and responsibilities by September 30, 1983.
3.17    Because the project includes a number of institutions and organiza-
tions and is centered on the complex issue of institutional development,
during appraisal, the Government agreed to prepare a Project Administrative
Plan. This specialized form of project administration would allow the rapid
achievement of project goals by coordinating the activities of the various
agencies and contractors. The plan would be developed by instituting the
following elements: (a) attaching the PIU to the Office of Secretary, Estab-
lishment Division to ensure sufficient prestige and authority. This has
already been implemented (para 3.16); (b) carefully outlining the Terms of
Reference and decision-making authority of the managers of the various
administrative units of PATC, and the line Departments (Wqings) in the Estab-
lishment Division in order to avoid unnecessary reference to higher authority
for decisions. This has also been partially implemented with the reorganiza-
tion of the Establishment Division (para 2.12) and the full integration of
training institutions into the PATC (para 2.13); and (c) listing in greater
detail than usual, the contributions and time table expected of each of the
many organizational units of the Establishment Division, the PATC, and other
Ministries/Agencies. This highly detailed rolling five-year Project
Administrative Plan will require lengthy discussions with key administrators
so that appropriate manpower and budgetary allocations can be made. During
appraisal, it was agreed that the Plan would be developed by the PIU staff,
line administrators and the Chief Technical Advisor of the Technical Assis-
tance Agency/Firm. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance
that it would prepare this Plan and submit it to IDA for review by December
31, 1983. The project would assist project management by financing equipment
(vehicles), incremental staff salaries, consumable materials, fellowship
training (6 man-months) and local seminars.



-25-
3.18    Evaluation.  The evaluation of project activities is essential to an
understanding of the effectiveness of components in meeting project goals
and objectives. For this purpose, the PIU would be staffed with two
full-time officers. They would be specially trained and be assisted by local
(30 man-months) and expatriate (27 man-months) consultants, financed under
the project. Two types of evaluation would be undertaken; (a) summative or
end-of-project evaluation; and (b) formative or process evaluation. Aspects
of the project which would be studied in the summative evaluation include
overall project implementation, institutionalization, training, and system
efficiency as compared with non-project Departments/offices of the Bangladesh
public service. Formative evaluation will provide continuous corrective
information during all stages of project development, so that changes can be
made without undue costs. This evaluation exercise has the potential to
clearly demonstrate methods of instituting organizational change, cost con-
tainment (staff and procedure reductions) and a manageable personnel system
for the public service. The analysis would be useful to the Government in
setting its administrative priorities, and to IDA, in increasing its under-
standing of institution building processes. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment provided an assurance that it would prepare a draft evaluation plan, and
to submit it to IDA for review and comment by September 30, 1983. The Plan
would clearly outline the data base, and the techniques of collection,
measurement and analysis. The Government also provided an assurance that it
would (a) establish and have operative by December 31, 1983, a monitoring and
evaluation system satisfactory to the Association which would evaluate
annually, the effectiveness and impact of the programs carried out under the
project. The Government also gave an assurance that it would make available
to the Association, for review and comment, annual evaluation reports of the
system for the duration of the project.
Technical Assistance
3.19    The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 29.8 man-years of local expert assistance, 11.75 man-years of
expatriate specialist services and 38.75 man-years of fellowships. The
assistance would be allocated as follows:
(a) 20.8 man-years of local experts to carry out the PATC studies and
case development program, 6 man-years of expatriate assistance
and 30.5 man-years of fellowships for the capacity expansion and
quality improvement program at the PATC;
(b) 6.5 man-years of local experts, 3.5 man-years of expatriate
specialist services and 8 man-years of fellowships for the estab-
lishment of the PMIS and MSW in the Establishment Division; and



-26-
(c) 2.5 man-years of local experts, 2.25 man-years of expatriate
assistance, and 0.5 man-years of fellowships for project evalua-
tion, management and civil-works implementation.
3.20    During negotiations the Government provided assurances that: (a)
counterpart staff would be assigned prior to the arrival of expatriate assis-
tance and the hiring of local experts, and in accordance with a timnetable
agreeable to IDA; (b) the terms of reference and criteria for the selection
of all specialists would be agreeable to IDA; and (c) the fellowship program
would be carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to IDA.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
Total Project Costs
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at Taka 360.27 million or
US$ 14.71 million equivalent. Detailed project costs by component and time
are given in Annex 6. Costs breakdown by project component into local and
foreign cost components is summarized in Table 4.1 below:
Table 4.1 Summary of Costs by Project Components
Taka (million)        US$ (million)        % of     % of
Foreign   Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange Base Cost
A. PATC                     58.07  84.04 142.11   2.37  3.43   5.80    59.1        56.1
B. RPATC                   62.11  10.02  72.13   2.54  0.41   2.95    13.9         28.5
C. Establishment Division 11.59  16.33  27.92   0.47  0.67   1.14    58.5          11.0
D. Project Management       3.42   7.62  11.04   0.14  0.31   0.45    69.1          4.4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS      135.19 118.01 253.20   5.52  4.82  10.34    46.6    100.0
Contingencies
Unforseen               13.52  11.80  25.32   0.55  0.48   1.03    46.6         10.0
Price Escalation        54.39  27.36  81.75   2.22  1.12   3.34    33.5         32.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       203.10 157.17 360.27   8.29  6.42  14.71    43.6    142.3



-27-
Base Costs
4.02    Cost estimates excluding contingencies were based on appraisal
estimates (March 1982) adjusted to December 1982 prices. Base costs were
calculated on the following basis:
(a) Construction Costs - on facilities of a similar nature recently
completed in Bangladesh. The average cost per sq.ft. was
estimated at about US$ 17.0 (excluding site development and
contingencies).
(b) Equipment and Furniture - on preliminary lists prepared by the
training institutions. Equipment items were based on c.i.f. and
inland transportation costs.
(c) Consumable Materials - on appropriate cost/trainee place (by type
of training).
(d) Architectural Design and Supervision Services - on acceptable
national practice, about 9% of construction costs (5% for design
and 4% for supervision).
(e) Expatriate Specialist Services - on a man-month cost of about
U$10,000 including international and local travel, housing, and
overhead costs of the technical assistance institution.
(f) Local Specialist Services - on a man-month cost of about Tk
15,000 (US$ 612) including local travel and other reimbursable
expenditures.
(g) Fellowships - on a man-month cost of about US$ 1,500, for over-
seas training of varying duration. Average costs include travel,
tuition fees, subsistence, book and other standard allowances.
(h) Salaries - on GOB pay scales plus medical and housing allowances,
where applicable (range Taka 400 to 2,250 per month).
Custom Duties and Taxes
4.03    All imported goods are subject to custom duties and taxes.  In the
cost estimates of the project, only civil works and furniture include a tax
component and this is estimated at about US$ 0.68 million. During nego-
tiations, the Government provided assurances that it would provide funds to
cover the taxes and duties imposed on items required for this project.



-28-
Contingency Allowances
4.04    Estimated project costs include physical contingencies (US$ 1.03
million), estimated at 10% of base cost for unforeseen factors, and price
contingencies (US$ 3.34 million) to cover expected price escalation as shown
in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Price Escalation Estimates
Annual Percentages of Price
Increases
Category                                 Year         Local      Foreign
Civil works, building materials )        1982          20.0         8.0
equipment, consumable             )      1983          15.0         8.0
training materials, and           )      1984          13.0         7.5
furniture                         )      1985          12.0         7.0
1986         11.0         6.0
1987-88        10.0        6.0
Professional Services, Salaries )
Experts/Consultants,Fellowships,)
Studies, and Reports              )     1982-88         9.0         8.0
Foreign Exchange Component
4.05    Based on detailed analysis of expenditures in similar projects in
Bangladesh, the foreign exchange component has been estimated as follows:
(a) civil works 35%; (b) furniture 45%; (c) equipment 90%; (d) books 90%;
(e) professional services 0%; (f) fellowships 95%; (g) local experts 0%; (h)
foreign experts 85%; (i) stipends salaries and honoraria 0%; (j) consumable
training materials and miscellaneous operating costs 25%. The foreign
exchange component, including contingencies, is estimated at US$ 6.42 mil-
lion, or about 43.6% of the total project cost.
B. Financing
Financing Plan
4.06    The total project cost of US$ 14.71 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:
(a) a proposed IDA credit of US$ 12.00 million equivalent would cover
85% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties (100% of the
foreign exchange costs and 73.3% of net local costs).



-29-
(b) the Government would finance the remaining net costs of US$ 2.03
million (14.5% of total net project costs), and all customs
duties and taxes.
4.07    The financing plan and IDA credit allocations by category of expendi-
ture is presented in Table 4.3:
Table 4.3: Project Financing Plan
Govt. of                     % of IDA
Bangladesh   IDA  Total    financing
------(US$ Million)------
1.  Civil Works & Furniture                  0.70 a/  2.80   3.50         80%
2.  Equipment & Books                        0.00      2.56   2.56       100%
3. Technical Assistance
(foreign and local experts,             0.00      3.15   3.15       100%
fellowships, miscellaneous
TA costs) and professional
fees for designs and
supervision of construction
4.  Training Allowances,                     1.66      2.02   3.68        55%
honorarias, student
stipends and incremental
staff Salaries
5. Consumable material and                   0.16 b/  0.63   0.79         80%
other operating costs
6.  Unallocated                              0.19     0.84   1.03
Total Project Cost                      2.71    12.00  14.71
a/ Includes about US$ 0.60 million taxes and duties.
b/ Includes about US$ 0.08 million taxes and duties.



-30-
Recurrent Expenditures
4.08    To assist Government in setting up and operating the project institu-
tions, IDA would finance recurrent incremental expenditures to cover: (a)
salaries of additional teaching and support staff for the PATC; (b) salaries
of additional staff and administrative costs of the APDW, TCPC and the MSW in
the Establishment Division; and (c) student stipends, consumable training
materials and operating costs during the project period from the estimated
date of credit effectiveness (July 1, 1983) to December 1988.
Recurrent Cost Implications
4.09    The incremental recurrent costs (mainly salaries of additional staff,
stipends and consumable training materials) generated by this project when
fully operational would amount to Taka 13.1 million per annum in 1982 prices
which is equivalent to less than 1% of the total recurrent expenditures of
the Establishment Division in fiscal year 1981/82 (TK 1,900 million). 1/
These additional expenditures could be accommodated without undue financial
difficulty to the Government.
Retroactive Financing.
4.10    The construction of the library and hostel at PATC Savar started in
January 1983. The estimated expenditure for the civil works to be incurred
during the period prior to credit signing is US$ 100,000. The Government
requested and IDA agreed to retroactively finance these costs.
Local Budget Requirements
4.11    Budget allocations would be made available to the project on an
annual basis, in accordance with the Forecast of Expenditures and Disburse-
ments shown in Annex 7. During negotiations, the Government gave an
assurance that it would make the necessary funds available so as to ensure
prompt project implementation during the life of the project, and proper
operation and maintenance of the physical facilities for 25 years after the
date of effectiveness of the project.
1/ Central Government Current Expenditure 1981-82, Ministry of Finance.



-31-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS AND AUDITING
A. Project Implementation
Project Management/Administration
5.01    The project would be implemented over a period of about five years,
including three years of operation. General coordination and implementation
of the various project activities would be the responsibility of the existing
Project Implementation Unit in the Establishment Division which was created
to implement the Public Administration Training Complex at Savar. The unit
has demonstrated satisfactory performance in dealing with private architec-
tural consultants and the Public Works Department (PWD) currently responsible
for the on-going PATC construction. However, in order to expand its respon-
sibilities to include software activities, it would be strengthened with
additional staff (para 3.16). In order to streamline the implementation of
the civil works, certain additional arrangements would be undertaken (para
3.16). To assist in effective and timely project execution, a detailed
implementation schedule, acceptable to the Government, has been prepared
(Annex 9). In addition, a Project Administrative Plan will be prepared by
December 31, 1983 (para 3.17). These schedules would serve as the basis for
monitoring project implementation and would be updated regularly by project
staff.
Professional Services
5.02    Designs and bidding documents are being prepared and top supervision
for the PATC is being carried out by a local firm (Engineering Consultants
and Associates). Construction for the PATC is being managed by the PWD.
IDA Review and Approval
5.03    IDA would review and approve all master equipment and furniture
lists, equipment specifications, fellowship programs, terms of reference of
experts, site layout plans and preliminary designs for civil works, draft
tender and contract documents, packaging of civil works/equipment contracts,
and all related cost estimates.
Site Selection
5.04    The PATC Savar is being constructed on an area of about 54 acres
which is more than adequate for the proposed campus. Acquisition of addi-
tional land for the extensions to the RPATCs has been completed.



-32-
B. Procurement
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) (US$ 3.61 Million) 1/
5.05    Civil Works, Building Materials and Furniture (US$ 2.80 Million).
Past experience in Bangladesh has shown that contracts for civil works and
furniture of this size do not attract foreign bidders because they cannot be
consolidated into large packages. Therefore, contracts for civil works,
building materials and furniture would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association and do not exclude foreign bidders. Construction would be car-
ried out under one integrated contract per building. Only prequalified
contractors would be allowed to bid for civil works contracts under this
project.
5.06    Equipment and Vehicles (USS 0.17 million).  It is estimated that
equipment, not exceeding in the aggregate US$ 0.17 million (equivalent to
about 20% of the estimated total cost of equipment), would be procured
locally. Such purchases would be items locally available that cannot be
grouped into contracts for ICB (below US$ 100,000). Therefore, they would be
procured locally in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
5.07    Consumable Training Materials (US$ 0.64 million).  Most training
materials would be procured locally following locative bidding
procedures (about 80% of total) or by off-the-shelf shopping (as described in
para 5.09).
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (USS 1.23 million)
5.08    Equipment and Imported Furniture (US$ 1.23 million).  Contracts
exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent for equipment and furniture would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Local manufacturers would receive a margin of preference
in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the
actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
Off-The-Shelf Shopping (Local and International) (US$ 0.35 million)
5.09    Off-the-shelf items of building materials, furniture, equipment, and
consumable training materials, not exceeding US$ 50,000 equivalent for each
contract and aggregating to a maximum of US$ 0.35 million (equivalent to
about 10% of the estimated total cost of equipment, vehicles and furniture,
1/ This and subsequent statements are estimates, including contingencies.



-33-
and 40% of the estimated cost of consumable training materials), could be
purchased on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price quotations.
Direct Purchase (Local and International) (US$ 1.91 million)
5.10    Books and instructional printed matter would be purchased directly
from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest possible prices on
the basis of at least three competitive price quotations, if applicable.
IDA Review and Approval of Procurement Decisions
5.11    Prior approval of the Association would be required for the award
of any civil works contract exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent and for con-
tracts for the purchase of any equipment, books, furniture, building
materials, and consumable training materials exceeding US$ 100,000 equiv-
alent. The PIU has been advised to forward bid evaluations and recommenda-
tions for contract awards, allowing sufficient time (at least one month) for
the Association-s review and approval. In addition, bid validity dates would
be established to allow the PIU or the evaluating body involved, sufficient
time to process bids received, prepare an evaluation and reach agreement on
award recommendations.
C. Disbursements and Auditing
Disbursements
5.12    The proposed Credit of US$ 12.00 million would finance 85% of total
project costs, net of customs duties and taxes. The proceeds of the proposed
IDA Credit would finance the various categories in the following manner:
(a) Civil works
80% of local expenditures;
(b) Equipment, materials (including building, instructional anid
consumable materials), furniture, vehicles and books
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory),
80% of other local expenditures (off-the-shelf purchases);
(c) Expert services for technical assistance; Professional services for
architectural design and supervision; fellowships
100% of total expenditures; and
(d) Incremental staff salaries, training allowances, honoraria and
student stipends
55% of local expenditures.



-34-
Documentation of Expenditures
5.13    With the exception of item (d) (para 5.12), all withdrawal applica-
tions will be supported by full documentation.  Withdrawals against item (d)
would be made against statement of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Project
Director. Documentation in support of SOEs would not be submitted to the
Association but would be retained by the PIU for review by IDA's supervision
missions. In addition, this documentation would be subject to independent
auditors report which would be sumitted no more than six-months after the end
of the Borrower's fiscal year in which the expenditures covered by the SOEs
were paid. To the extent practical, withdrawal applications should be
aggregated in amounts equivalent to US$ 50,000 or more prior to submission to
IDA for reimbusement.
Project Accounts and Audits
5.14    Project accounts would be recorded in accordance with sound account-
ing practices. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared
and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) cer-
tified copies of the audited accounts and financial statements, for each
fiscal year, together with the auditor's report would be furnished to the
Association as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01    The benefits of the three major components of the project; staff
training, personnel management and management services, are substantial. In
the area of training, the major benefit would be that 38% of class I officers
and 17% of the supervisory and support staff would have received institu-
tional training in different aspects of administrative/management training by
project completion. Further, the institutional network for training civil
servants in administration and management would have been well established,
and equipped with better trained staff, improved curricula and relevant
training materials. Most important, the linkage between training and career
development would be institutionalized, and become an essential ingredient in
the personnel system of the government.
6.02    The immediate benefit of creating the PMIS, is the provision to the
Establishment Division of data processing capacity for the storage and
retrieval of job analyses and job descriptions, training profiles of



-35-
officers, and wage and benefit information. The longer term benefit of the
PMIS, however, would be the improved morale and productivity of civil ser-
vants, as the current hit or miss- placement, and seniority promotion sys-
tems are gradually replaced. The provision of a rationalized and codified
personnel manual is also expected to reduce the time and manpower now util-
ized to oversee procedural compliance.
6.03    The development of the MSW is expected to lead to the increased speed
and effectiveness with which decisions are made within the
Secretariat/Ministries. This would be facilitated by the better flow and
content of information which would result from the streamlining of
administrative rules and procedures. Although the project is focussed ini-
tially on selected ministries, the benefits are expected to be government
wide. As these techniques and procedures are implemented in other Minis-
tries, they are likely to lead to the use of more effective management
methods and a less fragmented organizational structure of Government.
6.04    The major benefit of the project, however, is that trained staff,
PMIS and a management services capability in Government, are all essential
building blocks which must be in place, if there is to be continued and
substantive reform of the system particularly in the most difficult areas of
organizational restructuring, and program and policy formulation and evalua-
tion. Even if policy or social changes should slow the current government's
concern for reform, these project components may not be threatened because of
the deeply felt and universal need. Once the immediate benefits of the
project components are witnessed, they will create a platform of accomplish-
ment and information on which change can be built.
Risks
6.05    There are risks associated with each project component.  The major
risk to the training program to be developed as part of the project is the
unavailability of suitably qualified and motivated instructor staff (para
2.06). The creation of the Training Pool, including an incentive package,
clearer definition of the autonomy to be exercised by the training institu-
tions in hiring staff, and the strict procedures for the selection of
trainers for fellowships, are likely to overcome this risk.
6.06    The performance appraisal element of the PMIS constitutes the major
risk to this component of the project. The performance appraisal system must
be carefully constructed to fit the social and governmental realities of
Bangladesh. The risk is that well meaning consultants may rush the process,
or insist that the evaluation system to be developed, duplicate a successful
western model. It must be noted, however, that even in western systems with
a long tradition of merit promotions, the influence of friendship, patronage,
old boys network- and seniority is extremely high. In Bangladesh, because
of the traditions of close kinship ties, and personal networks of influence,
it may also be difficult to design a performance evaluation system which



-36-
could prevent non-merit promotions. Unless the development of the system is
properly managed, and its implementation undertaken after support is garnered
from key groups, the performance appraisal system runs the risk of being
simply an irritant and obstacle to the already apparent, but gradual, move-
ment to a 'merit-cum-seniority promotion system. The risk that overeager
consultants and government officers would develop an impractical system would
be substantially decreased by the careful selection of local consultants to
work with the expatriate specialists.
6.07    The management services component of the project is expected to
produce some of the largest benefits, but at the same time, has some of the
highest risks associated with it.  In the initial period of the project, the
MSW would concentrate on methods. This work is relatively simple, the needs
great, and the results as with the simplification of rules and procedures,
visible and non-threatening. The risks associated with these activities are
low. However, the entry of the MSW, into the complex and sensitive area of
organization development has several serious risks. First, organization
development is an inexact science, western in approach, and more often than
not, produces mixed results. More significant, the MSW when undertaking this
type of activity, would be dealing with the political and power issues of
staffing, organization design, and the locus of decision-making authority.
Several factors offset these risks. The MSW will gain experience and accept-
ance as it undertakes the simpler methods work. A major effort in training
staff both in the MSW and in selected Ministries through workshops and semi-
nars will do much to reduce suspicion. Above all, the strong backing of the
Government for progress in the area of organizational development will do
much to offset initial resistance at the traditional sources of power. Much
of the success of this part of the project will depend upon the ability of
MSW staff to resist the temptation of tackling more than their capacity would
allow, and their ability to translate and/or modify western organization
development techniques into the management culture of the sub-continent. The
benefits of the project clearly outweigh the risks. Safeguards built into
the project are likely to minimize the major risks, and make the proposed
project a suitable investment for IDA.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) by September 30, 1983, prepare a comprehensive faculty study and
case development program (para 3.11), establish a Project
Implementation lJnit (para 3.16), and prepare a draft evaluation
plan (para 3.18);



-37-
(b) by December 30, 1983, prepare a Project Administrative Plan (para
3.17), and establish a monitoring and evaluation system (para
3.18);
(c) utilize the job analysis, job description and performance
appraisal elements of the PMIS (para 3.13);
(d) make available to IDA, annual evaluation reports (para 3.18);
(e) utilize terms of reference and selection criteria for
specialists, and carry out the fellowship program in accordance
with a program acceptable to IDA, and assign counterpart staff
prior to the arrival of expatriate experts and hiring of local
experts (para 3.20);
(f) make the necessary funds available, including taxes and duties
to ensure prompt project implementation (paras 4.03, 4.11); and
(g) have project accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year audited by independent auditors and submit to IDA as soon
as available, but not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year, certified copies of the audited accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year together with the
auditor's report (para 5.14).
7.02    The approval of Project Proforma by ENEC (paras 3.07, 3.15) and the
signing of a technical assistance contract with a suitable agency/firm on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (paras 3.10, 3.15) are conditions of
credit effectiveness.
7.03    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 12.00 million to the People's
Republic of gangladesh for a term of 50 years including a 10-year grace
period.



I



-38-
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
BANGLADESH:  ADMINISTRATIVE STRHCTURE AND THE PERSONNEL SYSTEMS
I. THE ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMEFNT
A.  The Secretariat System:  Ministries/Departments
B.  District Administration
C.  Local Self Government
II. THE PERSONNEL SYSTEM
A.  Recruitment
B.  Training
C.  Performance Evaluation
D.  WIage and Benefit Administration
E.  Promotion
F.  Organization and Methods
G.  Regulations



-39-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
I. ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT
1.      Historical Background.  The essential character of Bangladesh's civil
service systew was developed and molded under British and Pakistani
influence. For almost 200 years, British colonial administration provided
the framework of government organization and operation throughout the
sub-continent. Several statutes, notably the Government of India Act of 1935
- along with the rules prescribed for its implementation, formed the legal
basis for the civil service system developed under British aegis. The
statute dealt with all major aspects of government personnel management,
service structure, authority to frame rules, recruitment, tenure, conditions
of service, compensation, pensions, and other matters, including protection
of privileges enjoyed by certain elitist groups within the service. The
Government of India Act of 1935 established the pattern ultimately adopted by
Pakistan after partition and by the new Bangladesh nation after gaining its
independence in 1971.
2.      The field organization of Bangladesh is a six-tier system deployed on
a geographic basis. In descending order of size, the units into which the
country is subdivided are divisions, districts, sub-divisions, thanas,
unions, and villages. 1/ There are four divisions in the country and each
consists of five districts. The districts are divided into 72 sub-divisions
which, in turn, are sub-divided into 494 thanas. Each thania is composed of a
cluster of about 10 unions each with a population of between ten and fifteen
thousand people. Each union (4,352) is made up of about 15 villages, of
which there are 65,000 in Bangladesh.
A. The Secretariat System
3.      The number of Ministries in Bangladesh has fluctuated over the years.
After Independence, the Civil Administration Restoration Committee recom-
mended 20 Ministries and 31 Divisions. The actual number established was 29
Ministries and 47 Divisions, but this was reduced to 25 and 39 respectively
under the martial law administration of 1976. Until March 1982, the number
stood at 44 Ministries. There are now only 19 Ministries (including the CMLA
and Cabinet Secretariats). These Ministries supervise 179 Attached Depart-
ments and 136 Autonomous Bodies.
4.      The Secretariat is composed of all Ministries/Divisions (but not the
Attached Departments) and is the nerve center of government administration.
Its role is policy formulation, planning, evaluation, and personnel and
financial management. The Secretariat is divided into functional Ministries
1/ There are 4 geographic divisions in the country and 42 administrative
Divisions which are part of Ministries.



-40--                               ANNEX 1
Page 2
with the business of government distributed among them in accordance with the
Rules of Business. 1/
5.      Generally each Ministry/Division is placed under the direction of a
Minister. The Minister is the political head of his administrative unit. He
is responsible to the President 2/ for all matters of policy in his area, and
for keeping the President generaTly informed of the working of the Minis-
try/Division under his care.
6.      The administrative head of the Ministry/Division is the Secretary.
He is responsible for the conduct of business, discipline, and is the prin-
cipal adviser to the Minister on all matters of policy. The Secretary is the
Principal Accounting Officer of the Ministry/Division and its Attached and
Subordinate Offices to assure the proper control of funds. The Secretary
determines the extent of the delegation of powers to his subordinates within
the terms of the overall guidance of the Secretariat Instructions and the
Rules of Business. 3/ The Secretary is assisted by Additional Secretaries and
Joint Secretaries who may be placed in charge of a Wing of the Ministry.
Under the Wings, are Branches usually headed by a Deputy Secretary, who
supervises a series of Sections, headed by a Section Officer. The level of
responsibility and authority for each of these is broadly delineated in the
Secretariat Instructions, and detailed in Officer Orders of the Secretary.
7.      The CMLA and the Cabinet Secretariats are the principal institutions
in the present Secretariat system. Prior to martial law, the Cabinet
Secretariat was paramount. It is divided into three Divisions, the Cabinet
Division, the Establishment Division, and the Science and Technology Divi-
sion. The Cabinet Division is responsible for all secretarial work for the
Cabinet and its committees, and acts as the communication link and coordina-
tion body between the Cabinet and the Ministries/Divisions. The Estab-
lishment Division is responsible in conjunction with the Public Service
Commission where necessary, for the regulation of all matters pertaining to
government service, particularly recruitment, training, promotion, dis-
cipline, etc., of the Civil Service. The Science and Technology Division is
responsible for the development of policy and coordination of all matters
related to the development of science and technology. The CMLA Secretariat
has now assumed some of the functions of the Cabinet Division and is
primarily responsible for all top-level policy decisions.
1/ Allocation of Business among the Different Ministries and Divisions
(schedule 1 of the Rules of Business - Revised upto 1979), Cabinet Divi-
sion, Cabinet Secretariat, Dhaka, 1979 [Annex 11 B 4(a)].
2/ Under the Martial Law Administration, the Minister is answerable to the
Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA).
3/ Annex 11, B-4 (i).



-41-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.      Under the Ministries/Divisions are the Attached Departments and
Subordinate Offices. They are generally responsible for implementing the
policies of the Secretariat and providing advice on the technical aspects of
projects. Subordinate Offices generally operate as field offices for the
detailed execution of policies, and function either under the direction of an
Attached Department, or where the volume of work is low, directly under the
Ministry/Division. The heads of Attached Departments and Subordinate Offices
are called Directors, but need to make reference to the Secretary in all
matters requiring government authority. In essense this means the authority
for decision-making in any matter ultimately lies with the Secretary.
9.      Authonomous Bodies are those bodies enacted into being by the Parlia-
ment or the President. The Act specifies the functions and powers of the
body. In general, each Autonomous Body has a Board which functions as the
primary decision-maker. Senior members of the Board are appointed by the
government, and are usually but not always, officers seconded from various
Ministries. The Ministry of Finance provides broad guidelines for determina-
tion of salaries and benefits, and allow for fixed-term contract hiring.
Each autonomous body has its own budget shown as part of the Ministry, but
once that is done there is full flexibility for expenditure. There are 136
Autonomous Bodies (1980) representing Development Boards, Port and Airport
Authorities, Industrial Corporations, Fund Management Associations and Educa-
tional and Cultural Institutions.
B. District Administration
10.     The administration of the divisions and districts comes under the
direction of the Establishment Division. The officers, some 1200 in number,
have the responsibility for revenue collection, the administration of the
land laws, maintenance of law and order, criminal justice and the administra-
tion of general laws and programs. The organizational structure is as fol-
lows:
Organizationl                                I
Designation       Officer-in-charge                      Remarks
DIVISION   i Divisional Commissioner          4 divisions in Bangladesh -
I Khulna, Dhaka, Rajshahi,
I Chittagong.
DISTRICT   | Deputy Commissioners (DC)    | 22 districts, with headquarters
|  at major cities or towns,
|  Chittagong, Comilla, etc.
SUBDIVISION | Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) | 72 sub-divisions with headquaters
|  at principal towns in the
Districts, e.g., Joydepur.
THANA      | Thana Nirbahi Officer            494 thana, lowest level of
I National government organization
| at which all major program
ministries are represented.



-42-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.     The Divisional Commissioner is responsible for revenue collection,
administration of the land laws, criminal justice, and all general laws
affecting the population. In addition, he has the responsibility for coor-
dinating the work of 19 Ministries that are active in seventy-six broad
functional areas of government. As coordinator he is chairman of/or member
of twenty-four committees representing such diverse activities as public
works (roads, canals, water supply, buildings), welfare, cultural activities,
defense, anti corruption activities, land allocation, economic development,
banking and credit operations and anti smuggling. Although the Commissioner
is held responsible for all activities of government within his jurisdiction,
his power to supervise and control has been limited over the past few years,
especially with respect to the activities of the other Ministries of govern-
ment. 1/
12.     The Deputy Commissioner (DC) operates at the district level, and has
the same broad coordinating responsibilities as the Commissioner. A typical
roster of district government officials will include 49 officers representing
19 different Ministries. The DC must coordinate these activities with the
development plans and other activities of the zilla parashad, the repre-
sentative governing body of local government at the district level.
13.     The Sub-Divisional Officer (SDO) holds responsibility at the
sub-divisional level and has eighteen different functions. He directly
supervises such programs as food for work, thana family planning, development
work of primary and secondary schools, development works financed by local
government, rural development, cultural activities, collection of revenue,
land allocation, and supervision of magistrates. He has the responsibility
but no authority to coordinate the activities of the Ministerial staff in the
sub-division.
14.     Thana Nirbahi Officer is the chief executive officer of government
at the Thana level. He supervises a staff of 258 public servants drawn from
all Ministries. He is responsible to the Chairman of the Thana Parishad for
all development work at Thana level.
C. Local Self Government
15.     Local Self Government is organized at four levels.  These elected and
appointed Committees (district, thana, union, and village) have oversight
responsibilities for local development works (roads, canals and other public
works), cultural, health, and educational projects. Although the Committees
have a degree of autonomy because of their taxing powers, the system is
dominated by the numbers and expertise of the government administrators and
technical staff who are also members of the committees. In late 1982, the
1/ (a) Muhith, A.M.A., Thoughts on Development, p.32, Dhaka, December 1981.
(b) Rahman, M., "Local Self Government Institutions in Bangladesh,"
unpublished monograph, 1980.



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 5
martial law administration began to implement a significant shift of power to
the Thana level. The elected Chairman of the Thana Parishad was given
authority over all development work in the Thanas and Ministry staff placed
under his control. Problems of coordination of effort are somewhat resolved
through the mechanism of Annual Development Plans and budgets at each level.
However, such planning does not encompass all development schemes sponsored
by the Ministries. Additional coordination problems are caused by the dif-
ferent roles assigned to different Ministries: Establishment Division field
officers supervise matters pertaining to revenue collection, law and order,
some development activities, and have coordination responsibilities. The
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives supports and
provides technical assistance to local governmental activities. Other Minis-
tries provide sector specific project work and technical assistance within
the framework of the local governent planning process. The Local Self
Government system is outlined below:
Local Self Government
Organization   I          Membership/Functions/Financing             | Numbers
Zilla Parishad   |Membership:  Elected members (not to be less in   i        22
(District)       Inumber than the total of official members) by       IDistricts
Idirect election.  Five year terms.  Women members I
lare appointed.                                      I
IFunctions:  Required to provide public facilities I
Isuch as libraries, hospitals and dispensaries,    I
Iveterinary clinics, public gardens, roads culvertsl
Ibridges, ferries, hostels, water supply, tree       I
Iplanting and conservation, health and sanitation, I
Itraffic control, agricultural, industrial and
Icommercial development, and relief and disaster   l
laid.  In addition, there is  a wide range of per-
Imissible activities to further develop the sec-
Itoral responsibilities mentioned above.
IFinancing: The budget is raised from taxes
Irates, tolls, fees and government grants. Has
Iwide powers of taxation
Thana Parishad   IMembership:  Representative members composed of   |   494
(Thana level)   Ithe chairmen of each Union Parishad, plus govern- I Thanas
Iment officials such as the SDO and the Assistant  |
ICommissioners (Former Circle Officers).
IFunctions:  Coordination of all development pro-  I
Ijects, preparation of development plans, support  I
Ito the Union Parishads, promotion of family plan- |
Ining, management of environment training of Union I
IParishad members.
IFinancing:  The Thana Fund is financed by govern-
Iment grants, but the Thana Parishad has limited   l
Itaxation powers.                                    l



-44-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
Organization   I          Membership/Functions/Financing             | Numbers
Union Parishad   IMembership:  Nine elected members and two nomi-   | 4,352
Inated women members.                                I Unions
|Functions:  Maintenance of public ways, public    l
Iplaces, lighting, tree planting, sanitation, con-
Iservation, relief, vital statistics, family         I
lplanning and the promotion of education, agricul- I
Itural, industrial and community development.        I
|Financing:  The Union Fund is financed through    l
itaxes sanctioned by the District Commissioner,    I
larnd such additional sources as may be specified   |
Iby the government.                                   _
Swanirvar Gram   iMembership:  Chairman, two women and eleven other | 65,000
Sakar            Imembers.                                            IVillages
(Village level) IFunctions:  Village development, food production, I
ladult literacy, family planning, law and order,   I
|local disputes.                                     I
IFinancing:  Donations and grants.                   I
I                                                    I
II. THE PERSONNEL SYSTEM
The personnel system of the government is managed by the Estab-
lishment Division with certain specialized functions directed by smaller,
single purpose agencies. Chief among these are the Public Service Commission
(PSC) for recruitment, the Superior Selection Board for senior promotions and
the Implementation Wing of the Ministry of Finance for wage and benefit
policy. The basic functions of a personnel system: recruitment, training,
evaluation, wages and benefit administration, promotion, organization and
management and regulations are maintained in a complex network of exchanges
between the Establishment Division, the specialized agencies, and the Minis-
tries.
A. Recruitment
1.      The immediate aftermath of independence in 1971 required the staffing
of new Ministries and the filling of vacancies in the existing Ministries.
This had to be completed at a time when an effective recruitment and place-
ment system, and an adequate policy framework to guide it, did not exist.
As a consequence, the period 1971 - 1976 was marked by high recruitment, low
standards, large quota systems, excessive delays in appointment, and place-
ment in jobs without regard to the aptitude or skills of the incumbent.
2.      The recruitment standards of today have been tightened, and a new
examination and syllabus have been prepared by the PSC for the newly unified
civil service. Entry to the Superior Services (Class I) is on the basis of a
written physical and psychological set of examinations for those who possess
at least a Bachelors Degree and are between the age of 21 and 25. Successful
candidates list their choice of services, and selection is made on the basis



-45-
ANNEX 1
Page 7
of choice and their standing in final examinations. Recruitment is designed
to attract persons, not only with specialist and technical backgrounds, but
those with an excellent general education, intellegence and a capacity to
perform as general administrators.
3.      Although the Superior Services are central to the administration of
government, they represent only a tiny fraction of the membership of the
Class I of government service. The encadred services represent some 6,000
incumbents in a total of 22,654. The recruitment procedures have been and
continued to be less stringent for the non-encadred civil servants. This is
not to say that the process is simple. Before a non-encadred officer can be
recruited, the development project under which he is to be recruited must
first pass from the implementing Ministry to the Establishment Division for
the framing of Recruitment Rules, then on to the Implementation Division of
the Finance Ministry, for the setting of the level of pay and benefits.
Finally, the Public Service Commission approves or alters the recruitment
rules and begins the interviewing for final selection. The process takes so
long that many appointments are made on a temporary basis until the PSC comes
up with final selections. For some projects, the appointments are made on an
ad-hoc basis, with the incumbent's contract renewed on a yearly basis until
the end of the project. The system is criticized for the length of time it
takes to recruit personnel, the mismatch between the selected candidates and
the jobs they are expected to perform, and the continuing "second class
citizenship" endured by the non-encadred service.
B. Training
4.      There are four major institutions which now constitute the PATC.
These are the BASC, NIPA, COTA, and STI. Their mission and functions in the
past were:
(a) The Bangladesh Administrative Staff College (BASC). The college
was established in 1977 to train senior administrators and top
executives in the areas of public policy development and execu-
tion through courses, seminars, and workshops. It served as a
forum for conceptual development and analysis both at sectoral
and macro levels. The College aimed at providing a forum for the
exchange of ideas and experience on various aspects of develop-
ment administration, developing an awareness of the administra-
tive complexities of national development in order to devise
appropriate solutions, and sensitizing participants to the inter-
dependence of various sectors of the economy. Training at the
College also focused on developing positive attitudes for effi-
cient performance, promoting effective staff development programs
through in-house training, and carrying out research on different
aspects of the administrative process. The principal activity of
BASC was a 12-week course which combined a study of the
administrative environment in Bangladesh and an analysis of the
functions of the administrative process. The College also
offered two-week programs in organizational theory and practice,
planning, personnel and financial administration, and organized



-46-                                ANNEX 1
Page 8
eight brief workshops every year on topical subjects for the
senior staff of government departments, public enterprises and
statutory bodies. Two new programs were recently added before
the integration into PATC. The first was a joint annual program
with the Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the World Bank,
to develop skills in the project development process. The first
course on Development Policy and Investment Decisions was held in
Bangladesh from January 11 - February 3, 1982. This program will
continue under the PATC. The second is a "Training of Trainers"
program to be offered annually in collaboration with the
Bangladesh Society for Training and Development (BSTD). BASC is
currently housed in temporary facilities in Dhaka. Its annual
training capacity is limited to about 100. There are 9 full-time
faculty members.
(b) The National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA). The
Institute was set up in 1961 to train mid-career civil servants
(Grade 4 and above). Since the tasks usually assigned to
mid-career officers require skills in the functional areas of
management, the objective of the Institute was to develop
administrative skills and upgrade the knowledge of participants
in different functions of the administrative process. The major
program offered by NIPA was the Advanced Course in Administraion
and Development (ACAD) which included elements of organization
planning, financial administration, public accounting, and per-
sonnel administration and leadership. The Institute also offered
specialized courses in administration for women executives,
doctors, and engineers who assume administrative respon-
sibilities.  Over the last four years, NIPA also specialized in
training officers in basic village development (Own Village
Development Program) where participants were taught how to
analyze village resources, and work with community leaders to
identify possible projects in which the village resources could
be efficiently utilized. NIPA trained about 300 officers in
quarters designed to accommodate a yearly training capacity of
150. It had a full-time faculty of 15 and an overall staff
strength of 106. It also had research, audio-visual and cur-
riculum development capacities and published a semesterly journal
entitled "Administrative Science Review".
(c) The Civil Officers Training Academy (COTA). The Academy was
responsible for the induction training of about 100 new recruits
(Grade 10) who are selected annually by the Public Service Com-
mission (PSC). These are university graduates who are appointed
as section officers, assistant accountants, assistant tax collec-
tors, deputy magistrates, circle officers, etc. The foundation
course lasted 22-weeks and offered a combination of economics,
law, administration, government accounting, and procedures. COTA
also provided a number of specialized short courses for junior
officers (about 18,000) who were directly recruited by government
departments, agencies, and statutory bodies. COTA had a



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 9
full-time faculty of 15 and an overall staff of 91. Its research
activities concentrated on preparation of detailed inventories of
training resources in public administration and management
development in Bangladesh. The Academy published the COTA Bul-
letin quarterly.
(d) The Staff Training Institute (STI). The STI was the single
training institution dedicated to the training of non-class I
officers, and therefore, had a potential clientele of over
350,000 individuals, the majority of whom are located outside of
Dhaka. Founded in 1966, it limped along in a temporary quarters
in Dhaka until 1980 when, under the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP),
the Governiment decided to expand operations to regional and
district centers. The staff development course which was the
major program of the STI, concentrated on government rules and
regulations, simple bookkeeping, payment procedures, filing and
record-keeping. The course also included typing and shorthand
and was instrumental in facilitating the process of converting
administrative communication from English to Bengali. The major
clients to the program have been the Class III clerical staff.
STI had an instructor staff of only 14 and published a
semi-annual journal entitled "Staff Development Review".
Sector specific skills and technologies and some administrative training is
provided by the large number of training centers controlled by the Minis-
tries/Divisions (Annex4).
5.      Training institutions can be created by any Ministry at any time, the
only permission being required, is through the budget process. As a result,
in the past there has been little reliable information on the total effort,
and except for gross numbers of potential and actual clients, no reliable
picture of training need. The Government has taken several steps to correct
this ad-hoc management of its training system. First, it has recognized that
training is not very effective unless it is tied to specific job require-
ments. Officers and staff must be trained in skills that will be immediately
practiced and put to use. Secondly, they have recognized the need to involve
the self interest of the trainees by not only the increased job satisfaction
that can come from job-related training, but also by tying training to promo-
tion. Thirdly, they have embarked upon a program of identifying training
needs through job analysis, and reshaping curricula to meet those needs.
Finally, they have begun to provide a policy framework and an administrative
structure for training, through the creation of the National Training Council
(NTC) and a Training and Career Planning Cell in the Establishment Division.
6.      Inherent in the decisions the government has been making about the
management of training is, an emerging but as yet not fully articulated
philosophy. There has been a growing move toward relating training more
precisely towards the actual on-the-job needs of officers and staff. This
approach has developed over the years to the point where the government is
beginning to identify the skills and knowledge actually needed to perform



ANNEX 1
Page 10
various classifications of jobs. Inherent in this approach is the recogni-
tion that administration has become far more complex than that of judicial,
regulatory, and accounting control which were paramount when government
administration existed simply to preserve order, administer a broad spectrum
of laws and collect taxes. Administration is now seen as a complex respon-
sibility requiring not only the basic knowledge of the legal and regulatory
framework of government, but the skill to manage diverse programs. This
implies that officers must have the knowledge of the sociology of the work
place, the technologies that enhance programatic decisions, and the informa-
tion systems that link the complex organs of government. The content of the
current courses at COTA, NIPA, BASC reflect this new understanding of train-
ing as a resource for the administrator. The emphasis and direction of this
emerging philosophy seems clear.
C. Performance Evaluation
7.      The evaluation procedures for Class I Officers consist of a Confiden-
tal Report Form which evaluates the officer on the basis of attitude (and to
some degree performance) as seen by his superior officer. This form is
endorsed by the officer of the next highest rank and sent each year, to the
Evaluation Cell of the Ministry in which the officer serves. If there are
any negative comments, the form is sent to the evaluated officer for his
objections. When the file is complete, the ministerial unit sends all files
of officers of the Deputy Secretary rank and above to the Appointments,
Promotions and Deputation Wing (APDW) of the Establishment Division.
Officers of rank lower than Deputy Secretary have their permanent files
maintained in the evaluation unit of the ministry in which they serve. When
an officer is recommended for promotion his dossier is collected from the
Ministry and sent to the APDW of the Establishment Division where they are
prepared for the appropriate selection Committee or Board. It should be
noted that the material requested in the Confidential Evaluation form is of
so general a nature that it is really only a reflection of whether or not the
officer is liked by his superior. There is little opportunity for substan-
tive evaluation of performance. However, in 1982, the GOB started the
process of strengthening the performance evaluation system by developing a
new Annual Confidential Report (ACR). These forms record in detail, the
annual evaluation of Class I officers in terms of job performance, work
habits and personality traits. In addition to the increased content in the
ACR, it must be discussed with each officer by his evaluator. In the case of
adverse remarks, a process of adjudication has been established so that the
subordinate can challenge the comments of his superior.



-49-
ANNEX 1
Page 11
D. Wage and Benefit Administration
8.      Wage and benefit decisions are made by the Implementation Division
of the Ministry of Finance and approved by the Finance Division, Ministry
of Finance. These decisions are based in part upon the analyses provided
to the Implementation wing by the Establishment Division which must approve
all new positions involved in a reorganization, or in new organizatious. The
PMIS data will provide a much needed profile of new positions and enable the
government to more accurately assess the educational, and experential
requirements of the positions in question. Given the flexibility of the
existing pay scales and benefits, the government will have some capacity to
use wage and benefit inducements to fill difficult positions, and to slow
applications for overcrowded positions.
9.      The major issue of keeping government pay scales in line with infla-
tion is not likely to be addressed until there is some easing of the current
stringent economic conditions. This is a major issue with government
employees. It manifests itself in poor morale amcng those who have no alter-
native employment options, and outmigration by the skilled who can find
employment elsewhere. While this proposed project will not address these
larger issues, it will create the capacity in government to address these
issues in a systematic manner when government creates another pay commission.
E. Promotion
10.     The promotion system of the government is linked with the grades and
scales of pay. Promotion criteria include: length of service, training,
examination scores, and at the higher levels, merit. The outline of the
system is shown in the chart below:
Rank        I   Scale   |    Authorizing Body                Comment
Joint Secretary i 2350-2750   Superior Selection Board.] Merit cum seniority
and above        and above I Council Committee on    l
|  Promotion.
Deputy           | 1850-2375 | Superior Selection Board.1 Merit cum seniority
Secretary       | 2100-2600 I                             _
Senior Scale    ; 1400-2225 | Special Promotion           | Seniority cum merit
Section         |           | Committee.
Officer         l_l_l
Entry to Class II  750-1470 | Public Service              | Seniority cum merit
(Section Officer)l            I Commission.
The Council Committee on Promotions is chaired by President or Prime Minister
and includes Ministers of the Government. The Secretary, Establishment
Division acts as the Secretary to the Committee. The Superior Selection
Board is chaired by Cabinet Secretary, and the Secretary of the Establishment
Division is Secretary of the Board. Other members include various
Secretaries including the Secretary of the Ministry proposing the promotion.



-50-
ANNEX 1
Page 12
11.     In addition to the requirements listed above, each service of the
government, as well as specialized institutions have additional promotion
requirements written into their recruitment rules. These rules specify what
percentage of the posts can be filled by promotion, and/or recruitment.
F. Organization and Methods
12.     The Management Services Wing (the upgraded Organization and Methods
Wing) of the Establishment Division is supposed to perform a specialized set
of functions by "providing management with the means of insuring that the
objectives of an organization are achieved with maximum efficiency and
economy." To achieve this goal the Wing provides the following functions:
(a) administrative management and reforms;
(b) initiation of proposals for all round improvement of efficiency;
(c) review of organizations, functions, methods and procedures of
Ministries/Divisions, Departments and Subordinate Offices;
(d) streamlining of systems and simplification of forms;
(e) secretariat instructions;
(f) compilation of statistics relating to civil employees of the
Government for the purpose of manpower planning;
(g) inspection and periodical review of staff position in Minis-
tries/Divisions, Departments and Subordinate Offices;
(h) administration of secretariat record room and library; and
(i) administrative research.
13.     The existing and potential power of the MSW is considerable in the
government-s continuing effort to improve its administrative capacities.
Three functions of the MSW are of particular significance:
(a) the required consultation of all Ministries in any matters which
involve reorganization, change of status of an organization, or
the creation of any organization;
(b) requirement that when any case or decision exceeds by a month
the allowable time for decision-making, and in cases involving
more than one ministry, the case shall be sent to the MSW for
investigation; and
(c) streamlining of systems and simplification of forms.



-51-
ANNEX 1
Page 13
These three mandates give the MSW with its rule making and interpretative
powers, the administrative basis from which to approach the most fundamental
problems of government administration, e.g., the size and structure of units
of government, the delays in inter-ministerial decisions, and the problem of
excessive and redundant paperwork.
14.     The basic framework of a MSW capable of addressing the problems
selected by the government is already in place. The organization exists
(former O&M Wing), it is supported by adequate rules and regulations defining
its scope of activities, and it appears to have strong governmental support
for the expansion of its activities. There is, however, one issue which must
be dealt with if the Wing is to be fully functional.
15.     Control versus Service:  The major function to date of the MSW (O&M)
has been to serve as a government control agency in the allocation of resour-
ces to the various ministries. The requirement that the Wing analyze and be
consulted before permission is given for any new organization or restructur-
ing of an old one is appropriate. However, future plans call for a sig-
nificant expansion of its service function. As a consultant, the Wing would
address the problems of organization, systems and procedures of the various
Ministries. In this particular mode, the winning of trust and confidence is
paramount if the unit is to be successful. There are inherent problems
related to the inclusion of both high control and service functions in the
same unit. A Ministry may be the recipient from the MSW of a negative
analysis which stops its plans for expansion. When approached thereafter
to accept assistance, they might understandably be reluctant. There are
several solutions to the problem. First, the Wing ought to begin its service
activities in a modest fashion concentrating on relatively simple, "methods"
help to the Ministries. Having demonstrated its capacity, trust would more
easily be won for the more complex problems. The problems of highly dif-
ferentiated roles is not an unfamiliar problem in creating lasting interor-
ganizational networks. Research has indicated that in designing a system
with overlapping roles, the use of special representatives (such as using a
high status project director and/or the Secretary of the Establishment Divi-
sion as ambassadors) would help overcome reluctance. Another device would be
to divide the MSW Wing into two separate Branches, one dealing with control
issues and the other performing purely a service-function. The drawbacks
associated with internal information exchanges between differentiated sub
sets of the same organization might prove to be a problem, but this would
seem a lesser evil than that of never being able to engender trust and
cooperation with the Ministerial clients. Whatever approach is taken, the
newly constituted Management Services Wing will have to address the problem
slowly and carefully to the point where the operational ground rules are
known and believed by all parties.
G. Regulations
16.     The Establishment Division has the responsibility for the creation
and the interpretation of most of the rules that govern both the personnel
and administrative procedures of government. In some cases, ultimate
approval of these rules is given in the Cabinet Secretariat, or by the Public



-52--                              ANNEX 1
Page 14
Service Commission in the case of rules affecting recruitment. However, the
Establishment Division is the lead agency in the rules and procedures affect-
ing personnel and administration. They affect everything from the quality,
pay, benefits and placement of officers to administrative procedures as
detailed as record keeping and as broad as delegation of authority.
Rule Making Responsibility of the Establishment Division
Rules                        Wing Responsible        Final Approval
Recruitment:
Recruitment rules and policy             Regulation               PSC
Qualification, new posts.
Classification:
Of services and posts
Conversion of temporary posts            Regulation
to permanent posts
Terms, conditions of transfer to
autonomous bodies.
Wages and Benefits:
Fixation of pay
Government accommodations                Regulation               Finance
Allowances: travel, medical, etc.
Overtime
Pensions
Administrative Rules:
Secretariat rules                        O&M
Audit manual                            Regulation                Cabinet
Delegation of powers



-53-
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Grades and Scales of Pay
CLASS/ r  ____         ______             TITLE              ____________ TTL
NUMBER            SECRETARIAT          ATTACHED DEPARTMENT 1/   DISTRICT ADMINIST.  |GRADEI             SCALE (Tk)
-      I                     I                        I
I Secretary                    I                     I                         I  1          3,000 (Fixed)
CLASS I | Additional Secretary         I Director General   I                         I  2  I         2,850 (Fixed)
22,654 I Joint Secretary              I Director            I Commissioner           | 3  |          2,350 - 100 - 2,750
4  I        2,000 - 100 - 2,600
D Oeputy Secretary             |                      Deputy Commissioner        5           1,850 -  75 - 2,375
l  l                 t                        1 6             1,700 -  75 - 2,225
| Senior-Scale Section Officerl Deputy Director    I Sub-Divisional Officerl  7  1           1,400 -  75 - 2,000
8  1        1,150 -  65 - 1,800
I |                  |                        | 9  1 900 - 55 - 1,285 - 65 - 1,610
Section Officer              I Assistant Director I Assistant Commissionerl 10  | 750 - 50 - 900 - EB - 55 - 1,230 - 60 - 1,470
______________                                              I    _______  I l____________
I P.S. to Secretary           |Deputy Asst.Directorl                          I 11  | 625 - 45 - 685 - EB - 55 - 1,315
CLASS III                              I                     I                          12  1470 - 35 - 645 -EB - 45 - 915 - 55 - 1,135
28,546  I Head Assistant                Head Assistant      I Head Assistant         | 13    425 - 30 - 575 - EB - 40 - 735 - 50 - 1,035
l  l                 |1| 14    400 -25 - 525 -EB - 30 - 825
l  l1I                                        | 15  I 370 -20 - 470 -EB - 25.- 745
CLASS II                                                                                 16  1 325 -15 - 430 - EB - 20 - 610
343,135   Clerical                     | Clerical            | Clerical               | 17  1 300 - 12 - 396 - EB - 18 - 540
I                   |                        | 18  | 275 - 10 - 375 - EB - 15 - 480
l  l1I                                        | 19  1250 -  6 - 280 -EB -  8 - 360
=  ___4~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~__________________   _ _________________________    _____________  _____________  I _____ I
CLASS tVI Sub-Clerical                 I Sub-Clerical        I Sub-Clerical           | 20  I 240 -  6 - 382 - EB -  7 - 345
168,473 I                              l                     l                        I 21  I 225 -  6 - 315
Source:  Service (Grade, Pay and Allowances) Order, 1977, GOB, 1977
1/  Titles in Attached Departments are only illustrative.
Class I      1 - 10  Officers
Class II    11 - 13   Supervisory Staff
Class III   14 - 19   Clerical
Class IV    20 - 21   Sub-Clerical



-54-
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
PITBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Bangladesh Civil Service
Functional Cadres and Sub-Cadres
NO                   CADRE                 I           SUB-CADRE
1   | Bangladesh Civil Service            | (a) Administrative
I  Administrative                    | (b) Food
2   | Bangladesh Civil Service            X (a) Agriculture
|  Agriculture                         (b) Forest
I  (c) Fisheries
I  (d) Livestock
3   | Bangladesh Civil Service            | (a) General Education
I  Education                         | (b) Technical Education
4   | Bangladesh Civil Service            I (a) Economic Affairs
I  Economic Affairs and Commerce   | (b) Commerce
I (c) Statistics
5   | Bangladesh Civil Service            | (a) Public Works
I  Engineering                       | (b) Public Health
|  (c) Roads and Highways
I  (d) Telecommunications
6   | Bangladesh Civil Service            | (a) Audit and Accounts
I  Finance                           I (b) Customs and Excise
|  (c) Statistics
7   | BCS External Affairs
8   I BCS Health, Family Planning
9     BCS Information
10   | BCS Juldicial
11   | BCS Postal
12     B BCS Enforcement                   X (a) Police
I  (b) Ansars
13     B RCS Railways                      | (a) Transportation & Commercial
I (b) Engineering
14   | BCS Secretariat






33333        33                                                                               3 w2- ;<t3or =g_   w^sSw >                         
_~~~~~~~~~~~---- ______ ________ ------_________       ---------- -___ ------- 1-----------_______-_._____________   -______ __-__ - -
S Fl                                                                                                                                          ^Sn1    E t  f r  _    A
3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
-t-  - -  - -  --  -  -  -  - -  --  -  - -  -  -     -    -     ----    ------  ----                               --- -
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ nI   A                                                                   
33             i                                                                                 -,>tb. ,,--- .  -   .-b-                              .-    - .---    S            i    AM
_ ____  __  --~   -~---~-- ~   -   ---   >S~       ___ ___   _   ae    81       cn  _ ________---------- .--1-~~----                                                     23
33             | -                                       ,     f                                     -                           -  3:  3 ,  3      jj                   
-"3                                        I              I                 =       J         -  n    n   n -         -  3t 3     3           3             I    
A3           1                                                                                                                            34e  3 1- !$Nsl1
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                                  1 3S






-56-                                      ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
TOTAL   FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY
INSTITUTION        FIELD OF SPECIALIZATION                          M/M    83    84    85    86    87    88
P.A.T.C      Public Administration                                  84           12    48    24
Business Education                                     60                 30    30
Personnel Administration                               18                  3    12      3
Financial Management                                   18                 12      6
Policy Analysis                                        18            3    12      3
Systems analysis                                       18                  3    12      3
Organizational Development/Analysis                    21            3    15      3
Development Economics                                  36           12    24
Development Planning                                   36           12    12    12
Rural Development                                      18           12     6
Project Management                                     12                 12
Training of Senior Executives            -              3                  3
Leadership Training                                     3                  3
Training Techniques                       - Short       3                  3
Development of Training Modules/Films    Courses    6                3     3
Statistics and Research Methodology                    12            6     6
Establish-   Job Descriptions                                         3            3
ment       Job Analysis                               - PMIS        3            3
Division      Officer Files                              (APDW)       3            3
Performance Appraisal                                   6            6
Computer                                                6            6
Management Services                       - MSW        48           48
Training and Career Development                         6            3     3
Management/Evaluation of Training                       6                  6
Salary Administration (Finance)                        12           12
Project
Management  Project Impelementation                                  6            3     3
GRAND TOTAL                                465     0   150   207   102       6      0



-S7-                                      ANNEX 5
Page 2
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LOCAL EXPERTS
TOTAL   FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY
INSTITUTION        FIELD OF SPECIALIZATION                          M/M    83    84    85    86    87    88
Establishment  Job Description/Job Analysis -  PMIS                  12             6      6
Division       Performance Appraisal                                36                  12    12    12
Management Service              - MSW               30             12    12      6
Project         Training/Evaluation                                  30            12    12      6
Management
(PIIJ)
P.A.T.C.        Studies and Case Development                        250            50    50    50    50    50
TOTAL                                     358             80    92    74    62    50
FOREIGN EXPERTS
TOTAL   FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY
INSTITUTION        FIELD OF SPECIALIZATION                          M/M    83    84    85    86    87    88
P.A.T.C.       Job Analysis & Performance Evaluation                6                   3      3
Training of Trainers                                8             4      4
Curriculum Development                              4             2      2
Policy Analysis                                     6              3     3
Case Writting                                       6             3      3
M. I. S.                                            6              3     3
Organizational Systems Analysis                     6                    3      3
Development Behavioral Training Modules             6             3      3
Supervisory Skills                                 12             6      6
Report Writting & Administrative Communication 12                        6      6
Project         Evaluation
Management      (a) Evaluation of Training                           9                          3      3     3
(b) Project Evaluation                             18            12      1     1      1      3
Establishment  Job Description          1   PMIS
Division       Job Analysis                                       12              6     6
Management Service        - MSW                    30             12    12      6
TOTAL                                     141             54    55    22      4      6



-58-
ANNEX 6
Table 1
*'fNfLAtIF2H
DIITr' ADMINISTR:T11ON   TRAININrI3  PERSONNEL ANDi MANAGEENT   ;'ROJET
ProJect. Cor,ronent tr  Ti..e
08:se GrJstsc                            Tot.,l
83/54   S4/05    ''''.    0.-'07   018c'             T          S  000)
A, PUBLIC ADMTINITSTRFATIlN TRATINTIN  CE NTEFR            i8034  3-f94t-    4,r 12  3,q 0.2?    9t?0I  47iS30   142,109o       5?800
EB  RESIONAL PUBLIC ADiMINISTRATION TRAINING CENTERS        3M0S2  22 Y2,5,:87    1C, 141  1'i- 6.1  1361 -        72,134       2.944
r:t ES,TAFP TcHMEfNT  IV2I2ION                              9393       ,,       .f  ?,  1,957   1y795        -     7,1,3 119
D. PFRFIrOJECT MANAGEMENT                                   3,71 5   t7,0,7     2,19   1,42T   1,914    12    11.040              451
TAj81 BASELINE COSTS                                         34.229  71.24    73i,S  47,439  2.  j 60   442   253,200            1 j335
Phi-sic-z rontinrencies                                   3i423   7i152       7 301   4,744   2'  56    44    2 5,32-0        1,0i3
r:Dic  Corntinnericies                                     3,5W42  15P`5    ,A 442  211 7       1 t6?3    315 f;1 753         3,337
Tnt.31 PROJECT CO.TS                                         41,194  94,34-   104,748  73 4i2  457755   801   360,273            14Y705
Tgg7L . 162-3   4,91 6                                                          ,I 5;A 8   2b618,   153.         16 6 i781       685
Foreien Ex<char,e                                         24,-E  45T;91    5!6  30F4 . 5_36   6  5 1. 4     5   157f150  ' ,416



-59-                                                    ANE   6
BANGLADESH                                              Table  2
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ( TRAINING , PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT ) PROJECT
Sumpars Account bs Time
(Taka '000)
Bose Costs
+ Price
Rase Costs                            Cont. or, Foreisn Exchange
----------__------------------------------------------- Base Costs ----------------
Unit    Unit Cost    No. of Units  83184   84/85    85/86    86/B7   87/88  88/89  Total    (USN '000)   x             Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                                       0.44-0.6        84,800   7,501  16,598    16.055   8,109   4T964         -    53,227        2,900  35.4      18,849
FURNITURE                                                               -       -   4,108      5,783        -        -     -      9,890         521  45.3       4,477
EQUIPMENT                                                               -       -   8,779      4,895   15580       395     -    155649          782  90.2      14,120
BOOKS                                                 0.65        50.000        -        -    16,189  16,189         -     -    32,379        1,721  90.2      29,216
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                              16.01-16.01           358   2,357   2,549       1,830   1,638   1,231   430    10,035            527   0.0           0
FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                          255.97-255.97           141  13,823  14.078       5.631   1,024   1,536       -    36,092        1,725  86.2      31,125
FELLOWSHIPS                                    38.77-38.77           457   6,083   6,978       4,187      465        -     -    17,713          843  95.5      16,909
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                        29,763  53,090    54,571  29,005   8,126   430   174,986           9,020  65.5    114,695
Physical Contingencies                                                  -   2,976   5,309      5,457   2,901       813    43    17,499            -  65.5      11.469
Price Continsencies                                                    -   3,042  11,573    18,089  12.463   5,127   305    50,599                -  52.2      26,417
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 35781  69,972    78,118  44,369  14,066   778   213,084           9,020  62.8    152,581
Taxes                                                                  -   1,479   4,512       5,221   2i127   1,417       -    14,755            -   0.0           0
Foreisn Excharse                                                        -  24,248  44,128    49,507  29,343   5,355        -   152,581            -   0.0           0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
TRAINEE STIPEND'S                              0.11-21.35       298,660        -   9.387      9,387   9.387   9,387       -    37,546       2.086   0.0            0
SALARIES                                 106.75-19441.13             39   3,307   4,134       4,134   4,134   4,134       -    19,845       1,066   0.0            0
HONORARIA                                        2.14-427           456        -   1;943      1,943   1,943   1,943       -      7,771         432   0.0           0
CONSUMABLE TRAINING MATERIALS                 3.48-324.37           273   1,158   2,915       2,915   20915   2,915    12    12,829            752  25.5       3,268
MAINTENANCE BUDGET                                   0.58           240        -      35         35       35       35     -        139           8  25.5          35
TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                                    0.58           145        0       21        21       21       21     0         84           5  20.4          17
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                          4,466  18,434    18.434  18,434  19.434    12    78,214           4,348   4.2       3.321
Phasical Cont:ngencies                                                 -      447   1,843      1,843   1,843   1,843       1      7,821           -   4,2         332
Frice Contingencies                                                    -      501   4,092      6,353   80786  11,412    10    31,153              -   3.0         946
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  5,413  24,369    26,630  29,063  31,689    23   117,198           4,348   3.9       4,599
Taxes                                                                  -      144      404       447      491      537     2      2,026           -   0.0           0
Fcreisn Exchange                                                       -      350     963      1,029   1,093   1,159       5      4,599           -   0.0           0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                           34,229  71,524    73,005  47;439  26,560   442   253,200          13,368  46.6    118.015
Phusical Contingencies                                                  -   3,423   7,152       7,301   4,744   2,656    44    25,320              -  46.6      11.002
Price Contingencies                                                     -   3,542  15,665    24,442  21,249  16,539   315    81,753                -  33.5      27.363
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                            41,194  94,342   104,748  73,432  45,755   841   360,273          13,368  43.6    157,180
Taxes                                                                   -   1,623   4.916       5.668   2.618   1,953       2    16.780            -   0.0           o
Foreign Exchange                                                         -  24.598  45.091    50,536  30,436   6,514        5   157,180            -   0.0           0



-60-
ANNEX 6
Table 3
PUBDLI C ADM,INISTTRATION$ I TRA INTN  , EPESONINEL AND! MANAGEMENT I FROJECT
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t- -.,                              -1
cumr~  cccunt i-w ProJect  or. r
''UBLIIC     REGIONAL PUBLIC                                         Contingeeries
AD MTINISTRATION   ADMINISTRATI N  EASTABELIS7HM'EN   'S  i_;--T          ________
TRAINING CENTER TRAI,NITN, CENTERS   IVISIN    MANATTENT  TAts              '   toun'.
Ii INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                                    43;025             1-0)237-                        -    5?         f
FURNITURE                                       7,791i             2                   _  -                                  J9(:  10.0  2
EQUIPMENT                                       5!712              A,144          4.237      }l.X4        A44  I! i ,   1   5
BOOKS                     3O79                                                    i.            -         .7   1.'
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                                                                  224 O0.  -  243 i'4   A7 7 35  10    t
FORET,IN CONSIULTANT                            S,2430 I 437''ji                              6,911}    02      30.0     ,
FELLOWSl^HIPS^-                                14.130                  _          3,291'        2334   17.7137   1.; 0    71
Totsl INVESTMENT COSTS                            12IT8l             1.540                         017R 1530  9       4,956  100  1 V4 
Physical Contirncies                           12,933              i 645            i95         91j 1C.499   0              0 G e
P'rice Corttirigeniles         h40T693C7 4T414                                  3<?ti .15;  2.'F336  i5'r75Gq q7.1 44610''0
Tota7l INCiLLCUTING C ONTINGENCIES              i3,3               '25-0 274.75                 2        243,034 7  f     2.0-,
Taves                                          12,0,5             2,720               -           -     4  55   2         ,
ForeignEchre11,7                                                  1,3            2025 I029 1~~'
o  r  e  X  s  ri  7,- ^. t . h ci r! f t t 7 T ' } r s 1 Q . 7 o ^ z Q 5 8 7 . . r i _ , _ V.  52G 5:01 ,,7   1C! 9 .
I i. RECURRENT COSTS
TRAINEE STITFENDS                                  -             36417 1                                                 132  -    3>54k  1.0   3,75-;
SALARIES                                       6,485              5,2l09         645;        h692      1YTR4E    l"   1, 92 4
HONORARIA                                                         73744            427 2                77i  100         777
CONSUMABLE TRATININTG MATEiRIALS              5i,792)             ;580             31           36    12,329  10,0   1 !2.7
MAINTENANCE BUDGET                                 -139                                                   139  10r iC     7
TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                                                                    _ -         4         Gh  1h:0        3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              12,277            55,637          Si333       136'2   7S,214  10.0   7.321
Physical Ccintirimsericies                      1,223             5-569             539         186      >321    O;r        0
Price Contir9ericies                            4gt,901           22-1q,573       3,0AI5        664    31T153 97   1   2 833
Totsl INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     18,406            833T29          124242       2,712   117.133   9.1  10,653
Taves                                             391              1 061                          14     2TQ26   ,1      13
Foreign EXcharnge                               2sO68              2         463    133          55      4.599 G1         413
Totsl BASELINE COSTS                              142Y109             72,134         27,913      11 0I40   253420   10r. A C,I 0  '25,320
Physical 8  Cintingencres                       14T 1               7,213           T79-       1 Z104    25T320   0,0
Frice Contiroericies                            45,599             26,936          6167        3           e000    3175s3   9.1   74432
Total PROJECT COSTSTC                             201,913            10633           36T377      15,144   360,273   9.1  79.7T)J
T BXe 7~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~ 1 ' 9 I 8  10Y73  5 P 14 _   a6i  0 t  2T73rs a      sTb  
1 2,926           '7  6               60         14    11771011  9.1  145
Forin   Exarpae                                11 3 ,235           13,1350~       20V4 1 6    10i,294   157f!13   4. I423



-61-
Annex 6
Table 4
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Taka (million)            US$ (million)        % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
I. Investment Costs
1. Site Development           7.98    4.30   12.28    0.32    0.18    0.50    4.7
2. Buildings                 26.47   14.48   40.95    1.08    0.59    1.67   16.0
3. Professional Services/a  4.30    0.00    4.30    0.18    0.00    0.18    1.8
4. Furniture                  5.44    4.45    9.89    0.23    0.18    0.41    3.8
5. Equipment and Vehicles   1.41   14.24   15.65    0.06    0.58    0.64    6.1
6. Books                      2.89   29.49   32.38    0.12    1.20    1.32   13.5
7. Local Consultants/b        5.74    0.00    5.74    0.24    0.00    0.24    2.3
8. Foreign Consultants        5.11   30.98   36.09    0.21    1.26    1.47   14.0
9. Fellowships                0.89   16.82   17.71    0.03    0.69    0.72    6.9
Total Investment Costs       60.23  114.76  174.99    2.47    4.68    7.15   69.1
II. Recurrent Costs
10. Trainee Stipends         37.55    0.00   37.55    1.53    0.00    1.53   14.8
11. Salaries                .19.85    0.00   19.85    0.81    0.00    0.81    7.8
12. Honoraria                 7.77    0.00    7.77    0.32    0.00    0.32    3.1
13. Consumable Training       9.79    3.25   13.04    0.39    0.14    0.53    5.2
Materials, Maintenance
and Travel Allowances
Total Recurrent Costs        74.96    3.25   78.21    3.05    0.14    3.19   30.9
Total Baseline Costs        135.19  118.01  253.20    5.52    4.82   10.34  100.0
Contingencies
Unforeseen               13.52   11.80   25.32    0.55    0.48    1.03   10.0
Price Escalation         54.39   27.36   81.75    2.22    1.12    3.34   32.3
Total Project Costs         203.10  157.17  360.27    8.29    6.42   14.71
Taxes                    16.78    0.00   16.78    0.68    0.00    0.68
Net Project Costs           186.32  157.18  343.49    7.61    6.42   14.03
a/ Architectural Design and Supervision.
b/ Includes studies and case development.



-62-
Annex 6
Table 5
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Cost of Salaries of Additional Staff
(in Takas)
I            | Annual  I           I           I Total forl Total
Institution  | Position   I Salary  I  No.    ITotal/Yearl Project  I Staff
jI         I          |          IDuration   Years
I  I       I          -          1           I
PATC         | Teaching   | 26,400  |  31        | 818,400 | 4.5 yrs. |
I Staff      I   65%               I 531,960 i
lallowancesl          11,350,360 16,076,620 |  141
I         ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~~I  I  I  I  I  I  
Project      | Technical  | 24,000  I   8        | 192,000    5 yrs.  I
Management   I Staff       I   65%   I           | 124,800 |            I
i   I        lallowancesl          | 316,800 11,584,000 |   40
Regional     | Director   | 25,200  1   1        1  25,200 1           1
PATCs        | Sr. Instr. | 21,600  |   1        |  21,600 |           j
I  Instructor | 18,000  |   2      |  36,000 i                       i
|Associate  |           i          i          I                      i
I Instructor,|          I          j           I          j
I A/V, Adm.  I          I          i           I          i
I  Librarians | 13,200  |   4      1  52,800 |
Hostel     j          j           i          i
I Superin-   1 12,000  j   1       1  12,000 I 4 insti-
I tendent    I          I          |          | tutions  |
I            I 1   65%   i 9iT=36  i 147 I600   for5                 j
lallowancesi          1  95,940 | yrs. eachl
I  243,540 14,870,800 1  180
| Establishmentl Secretary  | 36,000  |   1       |  36,000 I                       i
Division     I Dep. Sec.  | 28,800  |   4        | 115,200 1           1
ISect.Officerl  18,000  j  28      i 504,000 i            i
I  Others    | 15,600  |   2       |  31,200 | 5 yrs.  I
I            I |   65%   1  35     I 686,400
lallowancesl          I 446,160 1
I    I                1-1,132,560 1 5,662,8001   175
| TOTAL        iI                                             118,194,2201   530
II-=C=--=     ===    I



-63-
ANNEX 7
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Expenditure and Disbursement Forecast
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditures              Disbursements
IDA FY & Semester          Semester   Cumulative    Semester   Cummulative
1984
1st (Jul. 83-Dec. 83)         0.24        0.24           0.10        0.10
2nd (Jan. 84-Jun. 84)         0.41        0.65           0.30        0.40
1985
1st (Jul. 84-Dec. 84)         1.87        2.52           1.35        1.75
2nd (Jan. 85-Jun. 85)         1.86        4.38           1.30        3.05
1986
1st (Jul. 85-Dec. 85)         2.54        6.92           1.80        4.85
2nd (Jan. 86-Jun. 86)         2.30        9.22           1.90        6.75
1987
1st (Jul. 86-Dec. 86)         1.87       11.09           1.35        8.10
2nd (Jan. 87-Jun. 87)         1.88       12.97           1.35        9.45
1988
1st (Jul. 87-Dec. 87)         1.00       13.97           0.90       10.35
2nd (Jan. 88-Jun. 88)         0.74       14.71           0.89       11.24
1989
1st (Jul. 88-Dec. 88)                                    0.76       12.00
Closing Date: December 1988



CC    -  - -                                                                                                 00
CA  0Ns                                                                                           0          00 
Co                                                                                                   0         00 
r~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~ 00                                                                                Co o      
i
-              - ---C         - - - -C-     - -  -        - --<          - --.        -   -             0- - --
2                                                                    ~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 00
C)CN                                              .          .                                   Co         00 
o    0 0
o                                             ..  *                                          Co         00                 H
C-  -.Co                                      .~~~~~~~-         ----       ---        0        00                 Co-
Co    C                         Oo                          .                  .                    0         00                 > 
C__                 o- o --------0-00---- -C---                                                                                  a
0                      .         .                                   ~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0 0 
Co  0    0       0                                      C)~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 0 
)Co~~~~  0     0                   Co 0~~~ ~  -                                             0  00
_C        o oo       C                            o      0                                       0           00 00_ 
Co     0                    o      0  o                                    0            0                 o 8 o o - 
Co  0               ~~~0 07                                               0     00 
o >^ > o                            o      0                  C       o  0                               o-_  
o       .                0       0x  o  o            o       o0     8o                                           oo0
CZ  =o                   0       04 -Z0                      0                                       CoO00 O  O
o                0i 0s                       C o0_ 0-0               0                            0      0            C a
=1~~~ -     - --'------                                   ------- ---- -- -----'--
0                           15'    0 a   C> N    8     8  o  8   o   8o      00o
O  n  H   a   +  X    _                 o    o~~~~~~~~g                     g           C                                                   C  Oo    C  C 
:11 e   z   X  _ _ _   o    a               O                          O                o~~~~~~~~~~Co 
9      ~C o)  0)                                                    0    0 _o 0_______  0_ ________    _       ______
.n'-'Co        0      ~0                          0                0                   0        0     00C
C g    O    Co         0 _     0 _0                               0    - - - - - - - o0            0         00                 Co
?) Co                  0       0 o)                        0      Co                       0      Co                            Co
Co   0      0                   0      ~~     ~~~ ~~0  0                 g      g         gg
zo                                       Co      0                    o      0_     0 _0 o
7  Co       0       0                   0       0      0                         0      C) ~ ~~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00OC
Co  CC  -.o                  Co      0                    o      0      0                         00                00C
CO     ao    o           Co      0                   Co      0 o                              0      0          00 o  o o
H               Co     Co    O O          O     #                               0                         _ 0  0O___0 _
7  CC  Co   -17              0      ~~~0 Co0                            0                        0       C           0-
~~   '0  0  Co      0                   Co      0      Co                       0       Co       ~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~ 00  o C
7  0                                                                                                              Co   -C~~~~~~~~~~~0 
'0 51 C     O            O 0   0                   0       0      C0                              C          0      E
Co             Co      0        ~         ~~ Co    0      Co                     0         o         0
C)  ~ ~    ~     000    0                    0       0      Co0                                        0
Co        00~~~~~~~~~ 00 00
__~~~~~~ ~                           - - - -_ __  ---_.  -______________________--             _ _ -
Co~ ~~   ~       ~~~~~~~..                                   .. .4 . .. i o  Co  CO  0 ,  Co  0  jC                  0     i     0          00          jii1|i|
cHI          i             0       0                 Co      0      0                 0              0          00
Co  CO               Co                0~~~~~c    0                00                                              C
4  Co    &       7                 0~~~~~7- 0                  00 7                        0
0,  7701                 0       cc                   00            0 j0, i  i E P    Z  ] i 1 X  <t 8; j    i  E   f  |  0  1  I
0 ~  ~~~ ~          ~       ~E      h        C  _IfO I r  0  0   C)    C P,aoo5  Co  0                   0:EYEOXZ  OmHE
0.~~~ ~ ~~~~~ Co      V           0       0   Co         0                   0       0                       0       0SaU aN                        ;E  Do /:Uvp3 +u    sx> H H E
a:E   .c)7C  Uo  a   0. r.o  0   C o      0                   C o     0                        0       0q8  
,o  Co   0       o      0   0           0Co    0                                            0 
ICC0        Co0Io                0                       oOCo0
Co  Co   00   0000    Co          0~~~ 00000
H   0.  -oCO    oo            CooOOoO           o                        Coo                             Coow



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
(TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. General Report, Studies and Data Collections
A-l. BASC
(a)  Bangladesh Administrative Staff College:  Some Guidelines for the Members,
Dhaka, June 3, 1.977.
(b)  Bangladesh Administrative Staff College Association:  Charter Memorandum
of Association and other Rules, Dhaka, 1981.
(c)  Regular Training Course No. 9, September 23 - December 1981, Bangladesh
Administrative Staff College, Dhaka, 1981.
(d)  Regular Training Course No. 10, March - May 1982, Bangladesh Administrative
Staff College, Dhaka, 1982.
A-2.  COTA
(a)  Introducing COTA, COTA, Dhaka, 1980.
A-3.  NIPA
(a)  NIPA Prospectus:  Twenty Second Advanced Course in Administration
and Development, 1979.
A-4.  Establishment Division
(a)  Establishment Division, Year Book 1979-1980, Establishment Division,
December 1981.
(b)  Bangladesh Public Service Commission:  Annual Reports 1974, 1977.
(c)  Detailed Syllabus for the Superior Posts Examination 1976 and Additional
Instructions to Candidates-Bangladesh Public Service (First) Commission,
D]haka, 1976.
(d)  Distribution of Work Among Officers of the O&M Wing, O&M Wing
Coordination Section, May 1981.
(e)  Gradewise Number of Officers and Staff of the Government of Bangladesh,
O&M Wing, 1982.
(f)  List of Autonomous/Semi-Autonomous Bodies Under Different Ministries/
Divisions (August 1977), O&M Wing, Establishment Division, 1977.
(g)  List of Gazetted Posts of the O&M Wing of the Establishment Division
as of February 15, 19BU, O&M Wing, February 1982.
(h)  Number of Files by Category in Secretariat Record Room, December 1981.
(i)  Number of O&M Studies 1979-1981, O&M Wing, Establishment Division,
February 1982.
(j)  O&M Training Institutions Abroad Used by Bangladesh.
(k)  Report of the Administrative and Services Re-organization Committee,



-66-
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Part I:  The Services, Part II:  lhe Administration, GOB, Dhaka, october 1973.
(1)  Report of the Civil Administration Restoration Committee, GOB,
Dhaka, 1972.
(m)  Sample of Bio-Data Form for Class I Officers.
(n)  Sample of Confidential Report Form for Gazetted Officers, 1969.
(o)  Statistics on Civil Employees of the Government of Bangladesh 1980,
Statistics and Research Branch, O&M Wing, Establishment Division,
Ohaka, 1980.
(p)  Status of Bangladesh Secretariat Library and O&M Library, O&M Wing,
December 1981.
(q)  The Constitution of the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh, Dhaka, 1972.
(r)  Training Calender 1981, Cabinet Secretariat, Establishment Division,
Dhaka 1981.
A-5. Ministry of Finance
(a)  Creation of New Posts and Retention of Temporary  Posts Against Development
Projects, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, February 1976.
(b)  Modification of the Financial Advisers Scheme Along with Delegation of
Financial Powers, Expenditure Control Division, Ministry of Finance,
March 1977.
(c)  Organization Chart of the Bangladesh Audit and Accounts Department.
(d)  Procedures for Release of Funds to Autonomous/Semi-Autonomous Agencies for
Execution of Development Projects, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance,
February 1976.
(e)  Project Proforma for Development of RDTI - Sylhet.
(f)  Report of the Committee for Performance Evaluation of the Project
Implementation Bureau, Planning commission, January 1980.
(g)  Utilization of Funds Provided in the Budget for Execution of Development
Projects by Government Agencies, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance,
February 1976
A-6. STI
(a)  Traning Calen.der 1982 for Staff Training Institute, Dhaka, RSTI, Rajshahi,
Chittagong, and Khulna
(b)  Lecture Notes on Rules and Regulations, RSTI - Khulna, 1981
Lecture Rules, Establishment Division
Joining Time
Secretariat Insturc.tions, 1976
Family Pension and Gratvity
Pension and Death -cum- Retirement Benefits
Opening of Filing
Government Servant conduct Rules, 19/9
Group Insurance
Provident Fund Rules, 1979
Government Servants, Discipline and Appeal Rules
Treasury Rules
General Conditions of Service
T.A. Rules
General Financial Rules



-67-
ANNEX 9
Page 3
Civil Pension Rules
Security of Government Offices and Documents
Functions of Union Parishads
A-7. Project Proforma: Strengthening of Staff Training Program in Bangladesh.
A-8.  Rural Development Training Institute, Ahmed, Aghrafiddin, Sylhet, July 1981.
A-9. Staff Training Institutes (STI) News, Establishment Division, September 1981.
A-in. Books
(a) Abedin, N., Local Administration and Politics in Modernizing Societies
Bangladesh and Pakistan, Dhaka, 1980.
(b) Ahmed, Ali, Basic Principles and Practices of Administrative Organization
Bangladesh, National Institute of Local Covernment, Dhaka, 1981.
(c) Ahmed, E., Bureaucratic Elites in Segmented Economic Growth: Bangladesh
and Pakistan, Dhaka, 19R0.
(d)  Ahmed, E., Development Administration:  Bangladesh, Center for Administrative
Studies, Dhaka University, January 1981.
(e) Choudhury, Lutful Huq, Social Change and Development Administration in South
Asia, NIPA, Dhaka, 1979.
(f)  Muhith, A.M.A., Thoughts on Development Administration, Dhaka, December 1981.
(g) Rahman, M., Compensation and Motivation in the Civil Service of Bangladesh,
IBA, Dhaka TUniversity, January 1979.
(h) Zafarullah and Khan, M.M., Politics and Bureaucracy in a New Nation:
Bangladesh, Center for Administrative Studies, Dhaka, October 1980.
A-il. Articles
(a) Abedin, J., M.D., "Role of Training in National Development", Staff
Development Review, Vol. I, September 1981.
(b)  Ahmed, S., "Career Planning and Career Development", Administrative Science
Review, Vol. IX, Dhaka, June 1979.
(c) Ahmed, A., and Shams, K., "Evaluation of First Foundation Course",
COTA Bulletin, Vol. I, December 1978.
(d) Ahmed, Ali, "Policy Making and Reorganization of Public Service in
Bangladesh", BASC Journal, Vol. II, No. 1, Dhaka, September 1981.
(e) Ahmed, Ali, "Problems of In-Service Training of Higher Civil Servants with
Special Reference to Bangladesh", BASC Journal, Vol. I, Dhaka, 1979.
(f) Ali, Sheik Maqsood, Dr., "Changing Dimension of Thana Administration in
Bangladesh", NIPA Journal.
(g) Ali, Sheik Maqsood, Dr., "Public Servants as Change Agents: An Experiment
with OVD Program", Administrative Science Review, Vol. IX, March 1979.
(h)  Ali, Sheik Maqsood, Dr., "The Batasan-Durgapur Format for Rural Development
in Bangladesh", Administrative Science Review, Dhaka, 1980.
(i) Ali, Sheik Maqsood, Dr., "Training Higher Civil Servants in Bangladesh - The
NIPA Approach", Administrative Science Review, Dhaka, 1978.
(j) Aminuzzaman, S., "Administrative Training: Some IDEAS and ISSUES",
Administrative Science Review, Vol. IX, Dhaka, September 1979.
(k) Choudhury, A., "Problems of Coordination in Public Administration Training",
BASC Journal, Vol. I, Dhaka, 1979.



-68-
ANNEX 9
Page 4
(1) Das, K. M., "Concept of Development Administration with a Short Reference
to Bangladesh", Dhaka, September 1981.
(m)  Das, K. M., "Staff Training Programs in Bangladesh", Staff Development
Review, Vol. I, September 1981.
(n) Das, S. K., "Concept and Role of O&M in Bangladesh", Admin strative Science
Review, Vol. IX, Dhaka, September 1979.
(o) Grabner, G., "Performence Appraisal", BASC Journal, Vol. I, Dhaka, 1979.
(p) Islam, M. M., "Recruitment to the Civil Service in Bangladesh", BASC Journal,
Vol. I, Dhaka, 1979.
(q) Rahman, M. S., "Mysteries of the Missing Papers-Some Thoughts about the
Problems of Record Management with Special Reference to Bangladesh",
Administrative Science Review, Vol. VIII, Dhaka, December 1978.
(r) Rahim, Abdur, "Bureaucracy in a Political System", BASC Journal, Dhaka,
September 1981.
(s) Rushdi, A. A., "Some Aspects of Personnel Management in the Public Sector
in Bangladesh with Special Reference to Power Development Board", Staff
Development Review, Vol. I, September 1981.
(t)  Sata, M. N., -Recruitment to Superior Services in Bangladesh", BASC Journal,
Dhaka, December 1979.
(u) Sapru, R. K., "Development Administration: An Approach to the Administrative
Capability of Development", Administrative Science Review, Vol. IX, Dhaka,
September 1979.
(v)  Serajuddin, M., "Monitoring, Implementation of Economic Development Projects:
The Bangladesh Experience", Administrative Science Review, Vol. IX, Dhaka,
June 1979.
(w) Shams, K., "Public Administration Training in Bangladesh: Need for a
Functional Approach", COTA Bulletin, Dhaka, December 1978.
(x) Shams, M. Khalid, "Curriculum Development through R&D Experience of COTA",
BASC Journal, Vol I, Dhaka, 1979.
A-12. Unpublished Monographs
(a) Ali, Sheik Maqsood, "Adapting Public Administration to Rural Development"
NIPA Journal, Dhaka, January 1982.
(b)  Rahman, M., "Local Self-Government Institutions in Bangladesh", Dhaka, 1980.
(c)  Rahman, M., (Retired Establishment Secretary) "Some Aspects of the Civil
Administraion in Bangladesh in Perspective", Dhaka, December 1980.
(d)  Rahman, M., "Some thoughts on Recruitment Policy in Public Administraion",
Dhaka, 1980.
(e)  Siddiqui, A. M. A., "The Public Administraion System:  An Aid or an Obstacle
to Development", Dhaka, January 1977.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1. BASC
(a)  Bangladesh Administrative Staff College:  Course Brochure.
(b) Bangladesh Administrative Staff College: Recruitment Rules, Bangladesh
Gazette, April 1981.
(c) Bangladesh Administrative Staff College Training Courses, Dhaka, April 1980.
(d) Bangladesh Society for Training and Development: Charter Memorandum of
Association and other Rules: Dhaka, October 1980.



9-3
ANNEX 9
Page 5
B-2.  COTA
(a)  COTA - Recruitmert Rules 1978, Bangladesh Gazette, December 19783
B-3.  NIPA
(a)  ,NfIPA:  Recruitment Rules Bangladesh Gazette, January 1981.
P-4. Establishment Division
(a)  Allocation of Business Among the Different Ministries and Divisions (Schedule
I of the Rules of Business-Revised up to 1979), Cabinet Division-Cabinet
Secretariat, Dhaka, 1979.
(b)  Bangladesh Civil Services (Reorganization) Order 1980, Bangladesh Gazette,
Dhaka, September 1, 1980.
(c)  Composition of Cadre Rules 1980:  Bangladesh Official Gazette, Dhaka,
September 1, 1980 (Cabinet Secretariat).
(d)  Organization Chart of the Government of the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh,
As of Tanuary 1, 1980, O&M Wing, Establishment Division, Dhaka, 1980.
(e)  Organizational Cum Functional Chart of the Establishment Division, O&M Wing,
July 1979.
(f)  Project Proforma:  Public Administraion Training Complex, Planning Commission,
December 1980.
(g)  Project Proforma:  Re-organization of Selected Ministries and Development.
of the O&M Capability of the Government, September 1981.
(h)  Public Administration Training Survey, Anisuzzaman, M. and Rashiduzzaman, M.,
consultants, Dhaka, November 1979.
(ii, Rules of Business 1975 (Revised up to December 1979), Cabinet Division,
Cabinet Secretariat, nhaka, 1979.
(j)  Some Basic Facts on District Administration, Iman, H. T., Dhaka, 1979.
(k) The Senior Policy Pool Order 1979, Cabinet Secretariat, Establishment
Division, Implementation Cell, Dhaka, 1979.
(1)  The Superior Posts [Examination and Recruitment] Rules 1976, Cabinet
Secretariat, Dhaka, 1976.
B-5. Ministry of Finance
(a)  Introduction of New National Grades and Scales of Pay, Ministry of Finance,
GOB, December 1977.
(b)  New National Pay Scales for Civil Service:  Ministry of Finance, 1977.
(c)  Official Request for Assistance:  Proposed Public Administration Training.
Project, External Resources Division, Ministry of Finance, GOB, February 9,
19522
(d)  Report of the National Pay Commission, Vol. I, Main text, GOB, May 1973.
(e)  The Second Five Year Plan 1980-1985, Planning Commission, GOB, May 1980.
(f)  The Services (Grades Pay and Allowances) Order 1977, Implementation Division,
Ministry of Finance, December 197/.
B-6.  STI
(a)  Files (including staffing, personnel, course outline, etc) of RSTIs -
Chittagong, Rajshahi, Khulna, Dhaka, DSTI, Sylbet, Mymensingh.
(b)  Staff Training Institutes - Recruitment Rules, Bangladesh Gazette,
February 1980.



-70-                          ANNEX 9
Page 6
(c) The Staff Training Programs in Bangladesh - Das, K. M., Director of STI
Establishment Division, Dhaka, September 1981.
B-7. World Bank Documents
(a) Bangladesh: Recent Economic Developments and Selected Development Issues:
Summary and Conclusions, March 18, 1982.
Bangladesh: Recent Economic Developmens and Selected Development Issues,
March 3, 1982.
(b) Aide-Memoire: Preappraisal of Proposed Public Administration Training and
Management Improvement Project, Dhaka, September 22, 1981.
(c) Issues Paper: The Bank and Public Administration in Developing Countries,
E. Peter Wright, World Bank, April 30, 1979.
(d) Pre-Investment Study: Inception Report, IPA, Washington, D.C., December 15,
1980.
(e) Pre-Investment Study: Final Report, IPA, Washington, D.C., June 29, 1981.
(f) Pre-Investment Study for a Public Administration Training and Management
Improvement Project: Final Report: [Addendum] Institute of Public
Administration, July 17, 1981.
(g) Project Brief: Bangladesh: Proposed Public Administration Training and
Management Improvement Project, January 21, 1982.
(h) Summary of Discussions: Seminar on Addressing Development Administration
Issues in the Bank, World Bank, October 1981.
B-8. UNDP Documents
(a)  Implementation UNDP Project of Public Administration, UTNDP, Dhaka, 1979.
(b) Project Document: Strengthening Public Administraion (Revision), January 1982.
C. Working Papers, Tables, Drawings
C-1. Set of Working Papers



I



Organization of the Public Administration
Training Center (PATC)
|SYRO     RE TOF B CA F ISBYAS
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 I                                                                                                                                                 
DRECORT1                                                                         ll                                                   Dlt't             ll                              DRCrOTV [RCO                                                                                                            YTFC DRCO  =         DISECTF
OFFCER    |    |   OFRCER    |  |  LabRARb I  |  |  LLRARIAN   |    LSUPEPmJ                                                         _._~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYFa TTARS                                        nSIUCERATYR                                        SDRAEFSFR                  MTlW
DRACTYS ~    ~       ~          _                                      DtACO  YIETC  DE0  TCTD                                ADCo tcrCoO RNTUCO DITOCO Er~ UTY                                                                                                                         D AFT C   OO r   tUV :  c
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RFLYIECTORS|ULr llt{|DFIYJREIRT   = DrnDRCla
LXDLR    X            _        ]                                               >                            |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-I  SPECTOR  DEUT DECEI  nlDERTDRCS  MIT  RIECOSMHd                      DEUYIC
j   j   l                         l                                                     l                                l       D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VCIRE1S       DIRECIOR    ETRETOT
{  1   l   SI.FFR\R.oR  |                  1   5dRER/1 OR  |      |1    OPFICER    g   p    o F CE7   lWTSS                                             AflaeEEflFA MRER                                                (MFTTmOD
MEDI34;ANX 3\pyd2n_4st






/4 k.!>4  ''    -<BANG LADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
I N  D I A                                                     PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
N     > 5 \\    * \, \ N D      X         )         /C 1,,PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION  TRAINING  CENTER  (PATC)
t9  Thlk,g-a                                                                                    l.Savar
20'     rU 21    V ' \ uN        t\' %   (  T9t)_>>                                         2 REGIONAL PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION TRAINING CENTERS (RPATC)
1XW \IAJP                                                                                          3.Khuina2j
_''/             5ONRPNNN     1s  g'-             .                             4.Chittagong
" ,1      t<                          <>0,            i<                                   h5.Dhaka
9INAPU4                                                                                                     Equipment
Ny            !                                                  NfYN2-N <'  X    2-'l    t                                   Civil Works
{ ,>  ,   i    >   ,t '><    --F         X     Y E'  Training Program
K>   C2
X'                                                                         <                                      '' ~'rAN                              t ~'G
'41 vh.>i
zntrntrsefThWoldan      1    \ 4BO   ;-'O        iii       AILIJ  /Ni                                       N        Ni                    &       -'A   fl   9     | '        ts
6ny~,~   'N  ~                          ~-NLHrN    D
used   and  the  boundanes showrn ~~~~~~~Jjv9; , <i , 2 ( _ _ 1N~    \/                               >     ' N SZ1-'   C 
on hysnna donotinnly  n te  dt  2 1:05'i          -e  -                           N,NIN' .-' r  .N                            S  Y               <, 1J~    \/X 
r24/P  A     S~~ HAt'I?Y                                                                                     t>c 
1                                            D'H       KA         R    A    'K: Nr
any lud tment  on  the  [epal  status   \   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N  ~~~                                                      ''  ' ' 1   i (Nf  )
endorsennent ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    0NiO' 'r accptnc  Mofhs9 /  alay                                              
such~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ boundane  ',4 --Dsrc  30nai shinanori
JibISTrrN   H l_ n  JZ                                                                                                                  Jhilonjg   1d    1      r__ -
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                   /~b'ND A  -'-"'    I  N  D   A
ILLA                                            N
j B A      C      R             A      I LADr S'f.                                                                        I             3
_ -D   5 ? 1 A                                                                                                         A        -                                                      _ '
Thi ma haS been pr,epard by                                                                                                                                                    ' " 
The World Bank's Staff ea-bssiely       \      N    '/PTLJ~A KHAL IN                                                                     CTI O
to; tecoN/eence Of the           /t >Nv                                        $ fNNN
readers and C         & for the   ~    ~ N '                   N N~                                                   tI        
inernal lie otfThe World dank         '            N        ' -               I                -N      N< 
an,d the lotersatonat Finance   NNCI "                                                                                                           ITNTAG*>NA  N"  ,G        
Corporation The denormnakon,sN/                                                             'N NNC-bI A                                                    O    G                         \
coed and the boundares shown     '-a 
pon th,s map do not imnply, on the             J/
foternational Finance Corporation,-
any judgment on the legal status                                                                                                                                                     L
0fyany terotory or any                                                                       ____Roads
endorsemnnt or acceptance of                                                                        Railways
~uch boo,,danes                                                                              - -  -District Boundaries                                                                   -
_____                                             -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - nternational Boundaries            C-dN QN                            -
-L1-PAKIOTAN            oee'        -7K-CN's                                                                                                                                
0  i     2N   -,                                         I
o,   0  e 8,gel                                                                                                                                                             > N (  N  NIC0



