Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P - 3 4 9 3
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 11.1 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$ 12.0 MILLION)
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
March 24, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is fixed in relation to a basket of reference
currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention currency. On January
11, 1983, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 24.48 buying and Tk 24.52
selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below have
been used.
US$       Tk  24.5
Tk 1   =  US$ 0.04
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP    -   Annual Development Program
BCS    -   Bangladesh Civil Service
CSP    -   Civil Service of Pakistan
EPCS   -   East Pakistan Civil Service
MSW    -   Management Services Wing (Establishment Division)
NIPA   -   National Institute of Public Administration
NTC    -   National Training Council
PEU    -   Project Evaluation Unit
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
PATC   -   Public Administration Training Center
PMIS   -   Personnel Management Information System
SFYP   -   Second Five Year Plan (1980-1985)
TCPC   -   Training and Career Planning Cell (Establishment Division)
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) P->OJECT
*                                Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:              SDR 11.1 million (US$ 12.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project              The project would assist the Government in increasing
Description:        efficiency in the country-s public administration by
developing a cadre of professionally trained and
qualified public servants through: (a) improvements to
the existing public administration training facilities
and programs at the Public Administration Training
Center (PATC) and its regional centers; (b) the
installation of a modern Personnel Management
Information System (PMIS); and (c) improvements in
administrative systems and procedures, and
organizational development through a new Management
Services Wing (MSW) in the Establishment Division.
Part (a) above would include an expansion of PATC's
capacity through the construction, furnishing and
equipping of additional buildings and upgrading the
quality of PATC training through (i) overseas
fellowships, internships and seminars, (ii) technical
assistance to improve curriculum, course content and
teaching methods, (iii) a faculty research and case
development program, and (iv) supply of equipment and
instructional materials. Parts (b) and (c) would be
accomplished through technical assistance for
(i) establishing PMIS and MSW and (ii) project
implementation and evaluation. The project would also
include financing of incremental staff salaries, student
*                           stipends and training allowances.
Risks:               The major risks to the proposed project concern the
possible lack of qualified instructors for the PATC
program and the development of a performance appraisal
system that may not fit existing social and governmental
circumstances. The risk to the training component is
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
reduced because qualified instructors would be attracted
by the development of an incentive package which includes
the opening up of possibilities for pronotion in
training where none existed before. The use of local
consultants to work in tandem with expatriates will help
to ensure that the performance appraisal system takes
proper account of local circumstances and is a practical
management tool. Finally, the project will provide the
basis for Government to undertake future fundamental
reforms which, however, would require changes in attitude.
The risk is that attitudes may be difficult to change in
the short run. This risk should be reduced through the
exposure of civil servants to modern systems.
Estimated Cost /a:       Items                         Local   Foreign   Total
…ITUS$ Millions-
PATC Facilities and Programs       4.91     3.84    8.75
Establishment Division             0.47     0.67    1.14
(PMIS/MSW)
Establishment Division,            0.14     0.31    0.45
Project Management
Total Base Costs                   5.52     4.82   10.34
Physical Contingency               0.55     0.48    1.03
Price Contingency                  2.22     1.12    3.34
Total Project Cost                 8.29     6.42   1A.71
/a Includes duties and taxes US$0.68 million equivalent.
Financing
Plan:                                  Local        Foreign      Total
---------US$ Millions---------
IDA                  5.58          6.42      12.00
Government           2.71           -         2.71
Total                8.29          6.42      14.71



-iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FYP9
Annual      0.40   2.65   3.70   2.70   1.79   0.76
Cumulative  0.40   3.05   6.75   9.45  11.24  12.00
Rate of Return:      Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:   BANGLADESH: Public Administration (Training, Personnel
and Management) Project,
Report No. 4181-BD, dated Mlarch 23, 19R3.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (TRAINING, PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT) PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 11.1 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$12.0 million), on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Public Administration (Training, Personnel and Management) Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 4277-BD, dated March 4,
1983) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to
be scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Program" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by
about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place
outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain sup-
plies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deterioration
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Third Telecommunications Project
(Report No. P-3441-BD), dated December 29, 1982.



-2-
in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade wit-
nessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures to
attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been followed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which continued
into FY82. The external and domestic resource constraints led to some
decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum in the
development effort. The management of domestic food situation, due to poor
crops, has also posed considerable problems. Although GDP at market prices
increased by 6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of
agricultural inputs helped to increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8
million tons), growth of the economy became negligible in FY82 due to
poor crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the decline in
investment. A recovery in winter crops (wheat and boro rice) due to improved
weather and the Government's efforts to expand minor irrigation facilities,
however, is expected to increase value-added in agriculture by 3.4% and
overall growth of the economy by 2.5% in FY83.
6.      The economic difficulties experienced in the last few years is
indicative of major constraints to sustained economic development in
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) a severe balance of payments
problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and (c) a food
production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
are currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited
export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export
earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased
rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10%
of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on conces-
sional terms by external donors. In FY82 and FY83, however, Bangladesh was
adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its terms of trade and
(b) a simultaneous stagnation in external aid inflows. A sharp decline in
export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of major non-traditional exports
(notably leather and fish products), combined with a 14% increase in average
import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher petroleum prices), led
to a 16% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade in FY81. While import
prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export prices declined by a fur-
ther 16% due to continued stagnation of demand for raw jute and jute goods,
and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At the same time



-3-
external aid inflows, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated or declined;
aid disbursements in FY82 were only 4% higher than in FY79 in real terms, and
in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government attempted
to cope with this reduction in the availability of external resources by
resorting to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term deposits from and
currency swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of reserves and assis-
tance from the IMF under an Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement
concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in
July 1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to a large
bank-financed budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceilings agreed
with the IMF. In FY82 the Government attempted to slow down the growth of
imports through a variety of measures. Nevertheless further short-term
borrowing of $226 million and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager foreign
exchange reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The balance of payments situation in FY83 will benefit from a sig-
nificant improvement in the terms of trade, a substantial increase in
workers' remittances to about US$600 million and a 9% increase in total aid
disbursements due to an improved response from donors to Bangladesh's recent
requests for more food and commodity aid. The Government has also recently
reached agreement with the IMF on a Standby Arrangement in an amount of SDRs
68.4 million covering the second half of FY83. Rising medium and long-term
debt service payments (from US$98 million in FY82 to US$155 million in FY83)
will, however, claim part of this increase in external reserves; Bangladesh
will be also making net payments of about $100 million on outstanding
short-term debts.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources--were reduced,
as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for
nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated
by weak financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of
generally reduced availability of resources. The Government's development
programs were predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions
regarding resource availabilities; and the poor financial performance of
public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing
their sales prices added a further drain on the budget.  A budget deficit of
Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual
Development Program (ADP) was cutback by 12% in the second half of the fiscal
year. In FY82, the cutbacks in imports noted earlier sharply reduced govern-
ment revenues; and this caused serious difficulties in implementing the ADP
which was again initially set at ambitiously high levels. Although the Taka
component of the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was
possible to avoid a deficit in the overall government budget only because a
sharp run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to produce a substantial cash surplus on the food account.



-4-
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production and supply in Bangladesh remains
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged drought since the
summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The short-
fall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.7 million tons or 5% below FY81
levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low government procurements,
increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 tons
by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to be sufficient for food
security purposes. In order to replenish stocks the Government made substan-
tial commercial imports, thereby imposing further strain on the balance of
payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing restrictions on imports, public sector expendi-
tures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the Taka to
depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in relation to a
basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 22% in relation to
the US dollar.l/ However, the rate of domestic inflation, spurred on by
sharp increases in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjustments in the
exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late FY81
accelerated and the consumer price index increased by 15% over the 12 month
period ending June 1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with resource
availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures was limited to
14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government also
introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of
GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing
adjustments aimed at reducing consumption and protecting investments were
made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respec-
tively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The Govern-
ment also recognized the need to improve the financial performance of public
sector enterprises and utilities; and product prices and rates were raised
substantially in the case of petroleum products (41%), electricity tariffs
(40%) and natural gas (13%). These measures are expected to channel resour-
ces from private consumption to public investment and, together with a cash
surplus on the food account noted earlier, will help improve the overall
budgetary position, and restore a greater measure of financial stability.
11 Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium and long term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May 1980,
accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate
to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. This target is now being scaled
down in view of the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even
this revised target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private
sector to play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are ade-
quate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension
services and training, and appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.



-6-
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA has assisted GOB in preparing a medium- term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline are needed to identify core programs and projects and
protect them to the extent possible in a situation of resource scarcity. A
critical factor will also be the extent to which project implementation
capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements can be made, it
is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be adequate to
achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes that in certain
key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the private sector. It
also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such as education and
rural development should be carried out in a decentralized fashion, with
greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations has concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$147.11 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
September 30, 1982, 62 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,064.67
million; of these, US$765 million have been for import credits (ten imports
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of September 30, 1982,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh



-7-
became a member of the IFC, and three investments (for a shipbuilding com-
pany, an investment promotion company and a leather factory) have been
approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(20 of the projects approved as of September 30, 1982, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining
the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is
assisting in rural electrification and elimination of shortages of generation
capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to
utilization of existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing
telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of
economic and social activities.
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.



-8-
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN BANGLADESH
Problems of Public Administration
26.     During the past decade, Bangladesh has suffered from a combination of
war, natural catastrophies, political turmoil and external economic shocks.
The building of fully competent national institutions in the relatively short
period since independence has therefore been difficult and has not satisfac-
torily been achieved in any of the principal sectors. The task has been made
more difficult by the loss of many experienced officers of the Civil Service
of Pakistan (CSP) following the war of independence and the lack of a unified
civil service structure. At various times the Government has initiated
reforms in the organizational and administrative systems, but the civil
service remains poorly motivated, not only because of low salaries and poor
conditions of service but also because decision making is centered in a very
few top officials who are spread too thinly to be able to cope expeditiously
with the many decisions that need to be taken. The concentration of
authority at the upper levels of government is in part the result of the
shortage of well trained officers at the management and supervisory levels.
At the same time the proliferation of procedures, rules and regulations
serves to further inhibit the initiative, discretion and judgement of
individual officers.
27.     Personnel Management.  The Establishment Division 1/ is the central
personnel management agency of the Government. It is responsible for
recruitment, posting, and promotions for all grades of public servants; it
develops rules, regulations, and administrative procedures which govern the
ministries (secretariat), and the district (local) administration; finally,
it is supposed to provide management service by assisting government agencies
on all matters relating to organization, staffing and procedures. The Divi-
sion works well as a control agency, but its personnel and management func-
tions remain weak. It has, however, been the lead agency for implementing
several reforms which affect the civil service including the establishment of
a unified Bangladesh Civil Service and the creation of a Senior Service Pool
(see paragraph 30). While the basis for an adequate personnel management
system exists in the Establishment Division, it is hampered by four major
problems: (a) absence of a strong data base needed to recruit, train, place
and promote public servants on the basis of established requirements and
1/ A Division in Bangladesh is equivalent to a Ministry and is headed by a
Minister responsible to the head of government.



-9-
merit, and the inability to analyze the data and present them in a form
useful for decision making; (b) lack of adequate training in the basic func-
tions of personnel administration; (c) highly prescriptive and outdated
personnel rules; and (d) low levels of pay and poor conditions of service.
28.     Training.  The higher education system has only recently begun to
produce a number of graduates trained in public administration. Recent
changes in admissions examinations for the public service reflect this cur-
riculum shift, so that admission tests are no longer biased toward those with
liberal arts degrees. The Government has established a network of training
institutions which provide both general administration/management and sec-
tor-specific technical training to public servants. Administrative and
management training is organized under the Establishment Division, while
sectoral training is undertaken by the respective line ministries. There
were until recently four major civil service training institutes which
offered general administrative and management training; in November 1982, the
Government merged all four institutions into the Public Administration Train-
ing Center (PATC) located at Savar with four regional centers located at
Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulna, and Rajshahi. However, the training institutions
for civil servants remain poorly housed, understaffed, their curricula need
to be oriented to the actual job requirements of their students, and training
instructors lack adequate training themselves and have no career path.
Government Policies and Programs
29.     As set out in the SFYP, the Government's main priority in the public
administration sector is to improve efficiency through: (a) universal and
compulsory training in administration and management; (b) career planning and
personnel policy; (c) research activities in administration and management
development; (d) organization and methods systems in order to rationalize
procedures and structures; (e) rationalizing and simplifying accounting,
budgeting and financial control procedures; and (f) training support to local
administrative units.
30.     The Government has already taken several steps to address the
problems which affect public administration. The Senior Policy Pool, which
comprises the top levels of the administrative hierarchy, was created in
1979. One of its main purposes was to equalize the status of officers from
the CSP and the East Pakistan Civil Service (EPCS). All senior officers of
the rank of Deputy Secretary and above are now eligible for the Pool and for
senior positions in the Secretariat.l/ The Pool should provide for free and
open representation for all the services in key positions in the Secretariat.
The Bangladesh Civil Service (BCS), which was created in September 1980, is
essentially an amalgamation of CSP and EPCS. All new recruits to the BCS are
1/ The Secretariat comprises all Ministries/Divisions in the Government.



-10-
selected through competitive examinations and are eligible for appointment to
senior posts after established periods of service.
31.     In the latter part of 19829 the Government made significant changes
in the organization of government and the deployment of its staff. It com-
pleted the reorganization of the Secretariat by reducing the number of Minis-
tries from 44 to 19 and cutting staff from about 9,400 to 6,100. The Govern-
ment is also proceeding with the reorganization of the 179 Attached Depart-
ments and Autonomous Bodies. Surplus staff are now being retrained and
posted to positions in local administration. In addition to the obvious
economies generated by these changes, the Government is hopeful that this
streamlining will increase the efficiency of its operations.
32.     The Government has also developed a plan for improving public
administration and management training at all levels. It has developed a
unified management structure for the previously separate civil service train-
ing institutions and has relocated them from their scattered facilities
around Dhaka to PATC at Savar and its four regional centers (paragraph 28).
Construction of the required physical facilities at the centers is well
advanced. Government has also made training for all civil servants compul-
sory and has issued orders that promotion of officers will be linked to the
successful completion of specified training programs. A National Training
Council (NTC) has been formally established to formulate the National Train-
ing Policy, issue training guidelines, and keep under review training perfor-
mance. The Training and Career Planning Cell (TCPC) has been created in the
Establishment Division to serve as the Secretariat to the NTC.
IDA Role in Support of Public Administration
33.     Against this background of problems and policy responses, there is
a clear case for providing support to Government in its efforts to strengthen
public administration. The issues which affect the efficiency and quality of
public administration are complex, constraints are deeprooted, and their
longer term resolution calls for a number of actions which have far reaching
implications. First, there is structural reform which would require fun-
damental organizational, administrative and functional changes in the civil
service system -- such reforms are politically difficult but, as already
described, progress has been made in this area. Second, there is the need
for an affordable pay structure and pay review system which will help Govern-
ment attract and retain a greater number of highly qualified public
administrators. Third, a program of management training more directly
related to public sector corporations, autonomous agencies and the private
sector is warranted. Fourth, programs of training which are more practical
and tied to job-related competencies must be implemented at the public
administration training institutions. Fifth, there is need to strengthen the
civil service through the recruitment, placement and promotion of suitably
qualified and trained personnel; this means that a personnel management
system capable of such tasks must be developed. Finally, a program to refine
the organization, procedures, and methods of administration is essential.



-11-
The prnprsed project, which is the first IDA operation directly in support
of public administration in Bangladesh, would have limited objectives; it
would help in addressing the last three issues through upgrading the puh'74c
administration training centers, improving the personnel management system,
and providing the means to improve administrative efficiency through a
streamlining of the operating procedures. These improvements would provide a
foundation for addressing some of the wider and more complex issues discussed
above which will be the subject of further dialogue between Government and
IDA.
34.     Previous IDA Assistance to Management Training in Bangladesh.  Past
IDA assistance to management development in Bangladesh has been rather
limited. IDA has financed various studies by consultants to assist managers
in improving organizational arrangements and procedures for their agencies.
Some middle level managers have also received training under various
IDA-assisted projects. Most of these project components provided limited
assistance to industrial sector corporations and were designed to overcome
immediate management constraints, particularly as they related to the
implementation of IDA projects. This assistance, however, did not address
the larger institutional and organizational problems of public administration
and the management of the development process. More recently, IDA has
financed the services of a consultant to carry out a training needs survey,
as part of the government's preparation of a training plan and policy. The
Economic Development Institute has also been involved in a joint annual
program with the Bangladesh Administrative Staff College (now merged into
PATC) to develop skills in the project development process. The recently
approved business management training project represents a major effort by
IDA to assist in expanding and improving the quality of business management
training in Bangladesh. It will focus mainly on the needs of the public
sector corporations and its objectives are complementary to those of the
proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The proposed project, which was requested by GOB and prepared by the
Institute of Public Administration (Consultants), was appraised by a mission
that visited Bangladesh in February/March 1982. A Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 4181-BD dated March 23, 1983) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the
proposed credit were held in Washington in March 1983. The Bangladesh team
was led by Mr. D.S. Yusuf Hyder, Additional Secretary, Establishment Divi-
sion.
Project Objectives and Scope
36.     The proposed project aims to increase efficiency in public
administration by (a) upgrading the facilities and programs of the public



-12-
administration centers; (b) improving existing methods of personnel
administration; and (c) strengthening administrative systems and procedures.
The result would be better trained and more competent public servants working
in a more efficient administrative environment, thereby increasing the effec-
tiveness of public administration. To upgrade public administration train-
ing, the proposed project would (a) expand the physical capacity of the PATC
through the construction and equipping of teaching facilities, library,
administrative buildings and a dormitory; (b) improve the quality of training
at PATC through fellowships and special training courses to upgrade the
teaching staff, increasing the relevance of curricula to training needs with
the assistance of experts, developing a program of research and case studies
and upgrading equipment and training materials. To improve the present
system of personnel administration, the project would introduce a modern
Personnel Management Information System with the assistance of experts and
reinforced by staff training and additional equipment and salary support for
incremental staff. To strengthen administrative systems and procedures the
project would finance experts, staff training, equipment and incremental
salaries to enhance the scope of the 0 & M Wing; and finance staff training,
equipment and incremental staff salaries to upgrade project management
capability in the Establishment Division.
Detailed Features
A. Improving Managerial and General Administrative Training
37.     Public Administration Training Center (PATC).  With the development
of a comprehensive national administration and management training policy
which calls for the introduction of compulsory professional training for all
public servants, the PATC was established to undertake an integrated training
program within the framework of this policy. The PATC, as an autonomous
organization, is headed by a board of governors, with a rector as the chief
operating officer. The institution is organized around five major depart-
ments: Public Administration and Management, Economics, Program and Studies,
Research and Consultancy, and General Administration. Each department is
headed by a Member, Directing Staff with the rank of joint secretary or
above. The PATC undertakes: (a) induction training for all BCS cadres;
(b) administration and management courses for officers at all levels;
(c) refresher courses on administrative and management principles and techni-
ques for top executives; (d) courses to augment the proficiency and skills of
the supervisory and clerical staff; (e) research in all related aspects of
public administration; (f) consultancy and reference services to the Govern-
ment on different aspects of administration and management as and when
required; and (g) specialized courses, seminars, syndicates, and conferences
on all areas of public administration and management.
38.     The new PATC facilities would increase training capacity from the
present level of 2,750 to around 5,000 per year; even with this nearly doub-
ling of capacity, PATC would be training less than one-half of the officers
in the public service and administrative staff. The proposed project would



-13-
assist in the capacity expansion of PATC by financing the construction of and
the furniture and equipment for a library and training materials production
center, a multi-purpose hall, with two lecture rooms, a third wing of
administrative offices for the central administrative block, a dormitory for
senior staff and additional classrooms, library and multipurpose ball room at:
the regional PATCs in Rajshahi, Khulna and Chittagong.  It would provide
furniture and equipment for the classrooms/syndicate rooms and the central
administration block at PATC Savar and at the regional center in Phaka. The
project would also finance a self-contained teaching computer to assist in
the analysis of data which will be generated by the PMIS and vehicles for the
regional PATC. The Government is financing the remaining administrative,
teaching, residential and common facilities which are already under construc-
tion.
39.     Quality improvements by PATC would be facilitated through improved
library facilities and training materials, curriculum upgrading, the research
program to be undertaken by the PATC, but mainly by the staff development
program designed to produce more capable trainers. Staff development would
be the result of two programs. The first is a locally-oriented Training of
Trainers program which would be organized at PATC. It would be designed to
train 120 trainers per year for a total of 700 trainers over the project
period. This would cover all of the trainers in PATC (about 200 trainers)
and about 60% of the trainers in the rest of the training units within the
civil service. The project would finance technical assistance (local and
expatriate), honoraria, stipends, and the cost of training materials to
support this program. The second program involves overseas training. The
project would provide about 339 man-months of fellowships for 26 Master's
Degrees in order to upgrade the permanent teaching staff of the PATC by
allowing them to pursue advanced training in specialized areas of public
administration, development economics and planning, rural development, per-
sonnel management and financial administration and business education.
Another 27 man-months of fellowships would be financed for short-term struc-
tured courses in a number of administration, management, and training areas
such as the training of senior executives, training techniques, organiza-
tional development, psychological testing, consulting techniques and learning
measurement. Because of the problems of attracting suitable staff to the
training area, the Government was asked to develop ways and means of upgrad-
ing the quality and type of instructor staff going to the PATC.  The Govern-
ment has now completed a plan which details the recruitment rules for
instructors, qualifications, experience, monetary and non-monetary incen-
tives, and links to career progression in the BCS. Because the investment in
overseas fellowships is relatively expensive ($1,500 per man-month), and the
return of trainees to the PATC is important to the success of the project,
IDA reviewed the Government's bonding program and found that it was effective
in having the trainees return to service in the training institutions.
40.     Both the Training of Trainers and overseas fellowship programs would
be supported by technical assistance for curriculum and program development
(48 man-months). Expatriate experts would serve as visiting professors and,



-14-
at the same time, undertake curriculum and program development activities.
Because the curriculum for supervisory training is outdated, it is envisaged
that on-the-job training techniques for use within the individual agencies
would be a central feature of the new curriculum and training program for
supervisory officers. The staff of PATC's Training of Trainers Program and
PATC's Staff Training Department and MSW will work with the training officers
in Government ministries/departments to organize in-house training programs.
Expert assistance would be required to develop this program. The project
would finance 24 man-months of technical assistance in the area of office
management, supervisory skills, report writing and administrative communica-
tions. A studies program (250 man-months) would he coordinated by the
Research and Consultancy Department of the PATC.  As a priority, studies
would include topics of relevance to the Establishment Division in its role
as the central personnel agency of the Government, and in particular, the
development of the PMIS. The Government would prepare and furnish to the
Association not later than September 30, 1983 a comprehensive program for
research and case development to be undertaken during the Project period
(Section 3.07(a)(i) of the draft Development Credit-Agreement).
B. Strengthening the Establishment Division
41.     Personnel Management Information System (PMIS).  The new PMIS would
consist of job descriptions, job analysis, performance appraisals, upgraded
individual officer files, a personnel manual of rules and regulations, and
computer facilities to speed the analysis and recovery of the data generated
by the other elements of the system. Job descriptions would be prepared for
staff positions and would describe in detail the functions to be performed in
each position. At the same time, job analysis would provide an understanding
of the experience, skills and knowledge needed to perform each job. Perfor-
mance appraisal would be developed to assess performance against agreed work
programs and job descriptions. Personnel files. would be upgraded to include
information on performance, training, education, as well as wage and benefit
data. The Personnel Marlual would rationalize and codify the scattered ele-
ments of personnel rules and regulations. The PMIS would be managed by the
Appointments, Promotion and Deputation Wing in the Establishment Division.
Once developed, the PMIS will be introduced throughout the Government. The
proposed project would support the establishment of the PMIS, by financing 12
man-months of expatriate and 48 man-months of local technical assistance,
staff training in the form of 21 man-months of regional and international
fellowships for. short-term training and in-country seminars/workshops, salary
support for incremental staff required for system development, and a small
self-contained computer. The project would strengthen these management
functions by financing the training of staff (24 man-months) in career
development, including salary administration, and the management and evalua-
tion of training. The job analysis and job descriptions developed as part of
the PIIIS would be utilized by training institutions in curriculum development
and the preparation of annual training plans by, selected Ministries in the
preparation of their staffing plans (Section 3.09 (a) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The performance appraisal system would he utilized



-15-
by the Establishment Division in mLaking promotions and placements within the
Establishment Division, Superior Selection Board and the Council Committee on
ProiAotions (Section 3.09 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement), which
are responsible for making senior promotions in the civil service.
42.     The Management Services Wing (MSW).  The MSW would be established by
enlarging the scope of work of the O&M Wing of the Establishment Division.
The new MISW would focus on both improving office systems and procedures and
organizational development. These would be the on-going central functions of
the Wing, and during the project period, selected Ministries would be the
subject of these analyses.l/ Initial emphasis would be on work simplifica-
tion, office systems such as records management, filing, copying, common
services, and the procedural rules which govern these matters. This would
result in a complete review and simplification of the Secretariat Instruc-
tions which contains the rules governing office procedures. In addition to
this  methods' work, the Wing would also perform a more sophisticated service
of organization development aimed at those procedures, rules and regulations
which govern inter and intra agency information flow and decision making and
would be reflected in appropriate sections of the Rules of Business. In this
case, MSW staff, working with data generated by the PMIS, would assist Minis-
tries in the development of more appropriate organizational patterns and
simpler coordination procedures. It would also provide the means for reduc-
ing the denmand for decision making at the higher levels by instituting
raanagement control mechanisms such as management by objectives and management
by exception. This would allow certain classes of decisions to be made at
points closer to actual project implementation and would allow the government
to reformulate its rules governing the devolution of authority. It is fur-
ther expected that with the information of the PMIS, the MSW in cooperation
with PATC consultants, would be able to advise Ministries on their staffing
patterns, particularly at the lower levels where overstaffing is prevalent.
43.     The proposed project would support the establishment of this Wing, by
financing 60 man-months (30 expatriate, 30 local) of technical assistance, 48
man-months of fellowships for short-term training, staff training (in-country
seminars/workshops), equipment and incremental staff salaries. The technical
assistance would comprise expatriate and local experts in organizational
development for three years who would work together to provide:
(a) on-the-job training of MSW staff to supplement their experience and
education; (b) assistance in the analyses of selected Ministries; and
(c) assistance in defining the type of new system that would make offices
function more efficiently and effectively. Local consultants would be of
1/ Because of the size of this undertaking, it will be started initially
on a pilot basis in Ministries selected from the following five minis-
tries: Agriculture, Finance and Planning, Commerce and Industries, Educa-
tion and Religious Affairs, and Health and Population Control.



-16-
particular importance to the success of this component, as they would provide
an understanding of the local cultural and political environment which may
not be fully apparent to expatriates.
Project lManagement/Administration
44.     Project Management.  The proposed project would be managed by a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Establishment Division. The PIU
has been already substantially established by expanding the existing project
office which was set up originally to implement the PATC building program.
The Government would establish and maintain the PIU with staff, powers and
responsibilities satisfactory, to IDA (Section 3.08(a) and Schedule 4 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The office is headed by an Additional
Secretary who reports directly to the Secretary, Establishment Division. TTe
would be assisted by two Deputy Directors. One Deputy Director would be
responsible for the management and supervision of the inputs to the PMIS and
MSW' components, and the other for the management and supervision of the
inputs to the training institutions including the coordination of the fellow-
ship and in-country training programs. The PIIJ would be further staffed with
one evaluation officer in the Project Evaluation Unit (PEU), a procurement
officer to manage the equipment procurement process, and a project account-
ant. Implementation of PATC civil works would be managed by an Executive
Engineer of the Public Works Department (PWD) which would be responsible for
the administration of all aspects of civil works including the awarding of
contracts and on-site supervision. The project would assist project manage-
ment by financing equipment (vehicles), salaries of incremental staff, con-
sumable materials, fellowship training (6 man-months) and local seminars.
45.     Because the project includes a number of institutions and organiza-
tions and is centered on the complex issue of institutional development, the
Government will prepare a Project Administrative Plan. This specialized form
of project administration would allow the rapid achievement of project goals
by coordinating the activities of the various agencies and contractors. The
plan would be developed by instituting the following elements: (a) attaching
the PIU to the Office of Secretary, Establishment Division to ensure
sufficient prestige and authority, which lhas already been implemented;
(b) carefully outlining the terms of reference and decision-making authority
of the managers of the various administrative units of PATC, and the line
Departments (Wings) in the Establishment Division which has also been par-
tially implemented with the reorganization of the Establishment Division and
the full integration of training institutions into the PATC; and (c) listing
in detail, the contributions and time table expected of each of the many
organizational units of the Establishment Division, the PATC, and the minis-
tries/agencies selected on a pilot basis. The Plan would be developed by the
PIU staff, line administrators and the leader of the consulting team provid-
ing technical assistance (see paragraphs 47 and 48). The Government would
prepare this Plan and submit it to IDA for review by December 31, 1983 (Sec-
tion 3.08(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).



-17-
46.     Evaluation.  The PEU (see paragraph 44) would be staffed with one
full-time officer who would be specially trained and assisted by local (30
man-months) and expatriate (27 man-months) consultants, financed under the
project. The Government would prepare a draft evaluation plan and submit it
to IDA for review and comment by September 30, 1983 (Section 3.07(a)(ii) of
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would also (a) establish
and have operative by December 31, 1983, a monitoring and evaluation system
satisfactory to the Association which would evaluate annually the impact of
the programs carried out under the project (Section 3.08(c) of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The Government would make available to the Associa-
tion, for review and conment by December 31 of each year of the project,
commencing in 1984, annual evaluation reports of the programs carried out
during the prior academic year utilizing the monitoring and evaluation system
referred to above (Section 3.07(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
47.     The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 29.80 man-years of local expert assistance, 11.75 man-years of
expatriate specialist services and 38.75 man-years of fellowships. The total
cost of technical assistance would be US$3.15 million, including contingen-
cies. The cost of foreign consultants would be US$10,000 per man-month,
including international and local travel, housing, insurance and medical
allowances: the cost of local consultants would be about US$610 per
man-month. The assistance would be allocated as follows:
(a) 20.80 man-years of local experts to carry out the PATC study
program, (see paragraph 40), 6 man-years of expatriate
assistance and 30.50 man-years of fellowships for the capacity
expansion and quality improvement program at the PATC;
(b) 6.50 man-years of local experts, 3.50 man-years of expatriate
specialist services and 7.75 man-years of fellowships for the
establishment of the PMIS and NISW in the Establishment Division;
and
(c)  2.50 man-years of local experts, 2.25 man-years of expatriate
assistance, and 0.50 man-years of fellowships for project
t               evaluation, management and civil-works implementation.
48.     Because of the linkages among the types of technical assistance to
PATC and the Establishment Division, the Government would enter into an
agreement(s), satisfactory to the Association, with one or more academic
institutions, agencies or firms, for the purpose of assisting the Government
in providing visiting professors, experts in curriculum, training, manage-
ment, personnel, program and staff development, and organizing in-country and
overseas fellowship training (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit
Agreeaent). Entering into an agreement with the technical assistance
institution would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of



-18-
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would carry out the
fellowship program in accordance with a training program acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To assist in
carrying out the Project, the Government would employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Association and assign for the duration of the Project,
such couniterpart staff as may be required to work in conjunction with the
consultants; the assignment of each of the counterpart staff would he effec-
tive prior to the relevant consultant taking up his employment (Section
3.02(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs
49.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$14.7 million equiv-
alent, including US$0.68 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$6.4 million or about 44% of total project costs.
Estiwated costs to be financed by IDA and COB are based on price levels
prevailing in March 1982 adjusted for expected domestic and international
inflation to December 1982 levels. Physical contingencies amount to 10% of
base costs. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs have been
estimated at 8% per annum for FY83, 7.5% for FY84, 7.0% for FY85 and 6.0% for
FY86-88; local costs have been estimated on the basis of the following annual
domestic inflation rates: 15% in FY83, 13% in FY84, 12% in FY85, and 11% in
FY86.
Financing
50.     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 11.1 million (US$12.0 million equiv-
alent) would finance about 85% of project cost net of taxes and duties or
100% of foreign exchange costs and 67% of local costs. IDA financing would
contribute to all project components. The Government would finance the
renmaining project costs amounting to US$2.7 million equivalent including
duties and taxes. A condition of effectiveness would be that Project
Proforraa 1/ satisfactory to IDA had been approved by the Government (Section
5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.     The architectural designs and cost estimates for the library and a
hostel for senior staff at PATC Savar, which are to be financed under the
proposed project, were sufficiently prepared at the time of appraisal that
construction could begin prior to credit signing. The estimated expenditure
for the civil works to be incurred after January 1, 1983 but before credit
signing is US$100,000 for which retroactive financing is proposed.
1/ An internal government document, approval of which is necessary for the
appointment of staff and the release of funds.



-19-
Procurement
52.     Past experience in Bangladesh has shown that contracts for civil
works and furniture do not attract foreign bidders unless they are con-
solidated into large packages. Therefore, contracts for civil works, con-
struction materials and furniture (US$2.80 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. Equipment
(including specialized furniture) (US$1.23 million) which can be packaged in
contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Contracts for equipment and vehicles (US$0.17 million)
which cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$100,000 or more suitable for
international competitive bidding would be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA, as would most consumable training
materials (US$0.64 million). Off-the-shelf shopping, (US$0.35 million) by
soliciting at least three price quotations, would be used for contracts not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent. Library books and instructional printed
matter (US$1.91 million) would be procured directly from publishers or
authorized distributors on the basis of at least three price quotations.
Recipients of fellowships (US80.72 million) would be selected in accordance
with criteria and procedures agreed with IDA. Technical Assistance services,
including local and foreign consultants (US$1.71 million) would be obtained
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Selection and appointment of additional
staff would be in accordance with locally established procedures.
Disbursements
53.     The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would finance the various
categories in the following manner:
(a) Civil works
80% of local expenditures (US$2.4 million);
(b) Equipment, materials (including building materials and instructional
materials) furniture, vehicles, books.
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory),
80% of other local expenditures (off-the-shelf purchases)
(US$3.0 million);
(c) Expert services for technical assistance; fellowships, professional
services for architectural design and supervision
100% (US$3.1 million);
(d) Training allowances, honoraria, student stipends and incremental
staff salaries;
55% of local expenditures (US$2.0 million);



-20-
(e) Consumable training materials and operating costs;
80% of local expenditures (US$0.6 million);
(f) Unallocated
(US$0.9 million)
54.     With the exception of staff salaries, consumable materials and other
operating costs, all withdrawal applications will be supported by full
documentation. Withdrawals against staff salaries, consumable materials and
other operating costs would be made against statements of expenditure cer-
tified by the Project Director. Documentation in support of statements of
expenditure would not be submitted to the Association but would be retained
by the PIU for review by IDA's supervision missions. In addition, this
documentation would be subject to an independent auditor-s report which would
be submitted no more than nine months after the end of the Government s
fiscal year in which the expenditures covered by the statement of expendi-
tures were paid (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
To the extent practical, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in
amounts equivalent to US$50,000 or more prior to submission to IDA for reim-
busement.
Accounts and Audit
55.     The PATC and the Establishment Division would have their accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, and furnish them to the Association not later
than nine months after the end of each year (Section 4.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
56.     The benefits of the three major components of the project (staff
training, personnel management and management services) are substantial.
In the area of training, the major benefit would be that 38% of the
management level officers and 17% of the supervisory and clerical staff
would have received institutional training in different aspects of
administrative/management training by project completion. Further, the
institutional network for training civil servants in administration and
management would have been well established, and equipped with better trained
staff, improved curricula and relevant training materials. Most important,
the linkage between training and career development would be institutional-
ized, and become a key element of the personnel system of the government.
57.     The long term benefit of the PMIS would be the improved morale and
productivity of civil servants, as the current  hit or miss  placement, and
seniority promotion systems are gradually replaced. The development of the
MSW is expected to lead to an increased efficiency in decision making through



-21-
the better flow and content of information which would result from the
streamlining of administrative rules and procedures. Although the project is
focussed initially on a few ministries which will be selected on a pilot
basis, the benefits are expected to be government wide. As these techniques
and procedures are implemented in other Ministries, they are likely to lead
to the use of more effective management methods and a less fragmented
organizational structure of Government. The major benefit of the project,
however, is that trained staff, PMIS and a management services capability in
*        Government, are all essential building blocks which must be in place, if
there is to be continued and substantive reform of the system particularly in
the most difficult areas of organizational restructuring, pay system reform,
and program and policy formulation and evaluation.
Project Risks
58.     The main risk to the training program is the possible unavailability
of suitably qualified and motivated instructor staff. The development of
an incentive package, clearer definition of the autonomy to be exercised by
the training institutions in hiring staff, and the strict procedures for the
selection of trainers for fellowships, are likely to overcome this risk.
59.     The Performance Appraisal element of the PMIS constitutes the main
risk to this component of the project. The performance appraisal system must
be carefully constructed to fit the social and governmental realities of
Bangladesh. In Bangladesh, because of the traditions of close kinship ties,
and personal networks of influence, it may he difficult to design a perfor-
mance evaluation systew which could prevent non-merit promotions. Unless the
development of the system is properly managed, and its implementation under-
taken after support is garnered from key groups, the performance appraisal
system runs the risk of being simply an irritant and obstacle to the already
apparent, but gradual, movement to a 'merit-cum-seniority promotion system.
The risk that overeager consultants and government officers would develop an
impractical system would be substantially decreased by the careful selection
of local consultants to work with the expatriate specialists.
60.     The management services component of the project is expected to
produce some of the largest benefits, but at the same time, has some of the
highest risks associated with it. In the initial period of the project, the
MSW would concentrate on methods, which is relatively simple, and the results
visible and non-threatening. However, the entry of the MSW into the complex
and sensitive area of organization development has several risks. First,
organization development is an inexact science, western in approach, and more
often than not, produces mixed results. More significant, the MSW when
undertaking this type of activity, would be dealing with the sensitive issues
of staffing, organization design, and the locus of decision-making authority.
Several factors offset these risks. A major effort in training staff both in
the MSW and in selected Ministries through workshops and seminars will do
much to reduce suspicion. Above all, the strong backing of the Government
for progress in the area of organizational development will do much to offset



-22-
possible initial resistance. MIuch of the success of this part of the project
will depend upon the ability of MSW staff to resist the temptation of tack-
ling more than their capacity would allow, and their ability to translate
and/or modify western organization development techniques to suit the manage-
ment culture of the sub-continent.
61.     Finally, the project will provide a basis for Covernment in the
future to undertake more fundamental reform. Success in bringing about this
kind of reform requires a change in attitude as well. The attitudes may
prove difficult to change in the short run. This risk should, however, he
reduced by Government's strong support for the project and the exposure civil
servants would receive through the project to modern administrative systems
and procedures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. The following are
additional conditions of effectiveness: (a) that Government has approved the
project proforma (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement)
and (b) that Government has entered into an agreement or agreements with one
or more academic institutions, agencies or firms for the purpose of providing
experts and professors and organizing fellowship training (Section 5.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
63.     I aLi satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 24, 1983



-23-
Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLT!R- SCCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEET!
BANGLADESH                  REFERZNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV EAGs
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LO  INCO&E                 MULE 7CCIgE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR1MARY:    TOTAL                47.0         52.0      65.0               97.4                    96.2
MALE                 66.0        68.0      79.0              101.0                    99.8
PFMALE               26.0        34.0      49.0               87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 8.0        19.0      25.0               53.0                    37.6
MALE                 14.0        29.0      38.0               63.8                    41.1
FEMALE                1.0         8.0      11.0               41.3                    34.1
'IOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  1.0         0.8       0.7                1.7                    20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ''        45.1      43.8               37.7                    35.5
SECONDARY                           ..        26.4      24.9               20.2                    25.0
ADi1LT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      21.6        23.0/h    26.0/c             52.1                    73.1
CONSUPWTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ,         0.4       0.4                 1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         6.0      8.2                35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        0.5                3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         ..       4.7                16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         ..        ..                 3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   19251.6    23611.0  31477.4
.EMALE (PERCENT)                 15.2        16.6      17.5                29.5                    33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            87.0         86.0      74.0               70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.0         3.0      11.0               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.7      35.6               40.0                    38.5
MALE                               58.7        55.9      56.9                51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                              11.4        11.9      12.9               23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4       1.3                1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/i       ..       14.6/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.57i     44.1/j   42.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97!      8.7/1     6.97*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.97!     19.6Z    18.27.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY LNCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    139.0/c             133.8                    194.7
RURAL                              ..          ..    111.0/cE            111.1                    155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                   178.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      86.0/c             43.8                    24.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      86.0/i             51.7                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwe'en 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /. 1972; /h 1973; /i 1964;
/I 1967, /k 1974.
May 1982



-24-                                                     ~~~~~~Annex I
-24--
tLMNITtdNS IF SOCIAL ltfftCAtOt
Aote;  o tnoh cnae.    orel Itatr-  from   --uce  generally luagad the   aeaunrtoo                ho   elaf, it anode a.eo be toted  that they  a  rot t.t totr-
net looc Ic  aeparria ne oute  I I oh   Look o   todard Lead doE.Llatons. MIdcomteaeepifrntoweOe Ic c ibc  tgtedate.  The "C. ir.oe
cteao..acultodecetaCrdnted  -agnltuda.idct  trn              -.ad cha-oocrde  cetain  mJor differa..cear betce..t..           oea
line raicrete ntroops itt  iS te tome country  roop of the dot(ccc c oucrey ad   Of. tcuctep  goup o..h aclynht niahar aortah,  ttccgh-th-a h.he co.ntry grou
tctic<ulc,.t&i  tfititits),  In tA  to Letcta grou  Iota the  urg aepplc -atgnt            ...httcnt Anoefor eah Ledi-Coo  or  thorn only chart
ao ortY oft. oc....        na.    ru    octaIrta   nictr       n atecvrg  of tcunrntae anan  the itdtoarora dapeodo on the o                             bilatly of data
frooaporrE..n.tro   n  Ratche  batte   ord cc h   ful    1979 date                     ftiLltceyontrrr                            - hoprfae    taloMotel~1 permaentl  trdfa
cy  -t.it ate Phyruoba..tcalihent  ycidiag prtcoopaIl p Ca-ro-
C..t.d  by oe    _neriot oatho   oob d Lock utL.e  I197fbl0 baait); ~960,                                       .....it  tnnc  no   eenntcee.eIb.         tecio   htb 
o1d-oono,anoct,ltpI O   uh   ai.ncio  adgotra    -c                                              and        ..utal   optLo,  ba   rrt    oprl   c  nadna  odntnnr
- ntctc.  mob  .-crto  0)<cc   ocivlontPa, co 9t:    n, i 970, cod l19ot79                        cnto  othopci  Ottt ade                 d _ol   tr  cne.I
from hoaPinoim  ubAidod by tie code  o  cede.
xclyyltio ib-Acrroao)-               Ar a  loIn L; l96hd, 1370, -cO .1St           A.OUtLNG
boo,  po_  o  tc -jf0mc.  A) catul  - Ratio ad arton  to coral popLaecian;                        A cool   otoeo       ru   f lrdtidu.l Rb   bn                   cn    it
at) nnondadthtbao a  artAottc to  f fot  a~roLL ihLf dcoc                           _od theci at  cl .   ta  nra   ode   a  at ann nor ha Iiaedt
_tngnoh c  ;196). 0970, ann 1960 tae                                                              h    ....tidefol   to   -otetIc y.tn.
oao;nP-nn-cI-t                                                                           cAtlg"",    ee  of yI......rvOtthon  - oa. -tta, ard tr    oeeet
yopuloniot LAoem  1000 - Carrant popultion  p tobtiot  art, bea.d on 1980         hen of  _tron  .yt .oo  In  l   ro,      Fo  Ioa   ott.. ted anAteLe
hood  populbCtc aH    aeotoco   thf oraty   n  lnil icy etton                                d ta.nePooCe-Ly.  Onlooo1               n  udhn-emaotarttaaat
Lea-- . -dc-alo  Life orp..Ctny entliltica. oc 17.5 ytars.  'to poet-                        CocoenLion.al4 oilno. cithdairtrlioiny to, ljning A--tto-e 05
oetnr  :Ao  ~-rcl ity rate tIt  hnethrr  en l                      .eo edtIerI in            ofL cra l,nrben. _-aodeu Ie ee  i         _tmapeoninle.l
err t"lLt, __opohi to   on   et ond! pa..fmu   pattn   petor-o-
toot  n--cy to that a..eLdd 000 oftheta ti. Cosinotie   of  -otality                    LDOCATIaN
tdI_inetlint  cna.do for projootton  poycakdoered tnrli11aoc tatto
htanuonarnnon  Lonctn -    c  tocianory pcolat inn thee ta no 0roeh atots     ytieay rotnol -.tno,    - mete ca   femand -fem  oe totat. , ete anddfo-ol
"Ie 0 iPti  I'll ceoo   note Ceh rare.o.            .m .........tur   .o-                      cncieco   lla             ntepimory Lana I l o        I cncen.g.  ofC'.oP.otc
tAr rep- Locce -r :e la   nlt - nt -nptcd.tcioe creC. - hn  th1aeato                            0chtodt d ft dif f-net lenths of pti-aotr                  . o cttta;in.r
_Ae   Ic-nteif onn  n      h   tthtr    nuoitteo                                    torc    0h 0 oto    dcoo    otlon    a   c oLt  pe0tte
rccor'nnotaa  oe_r fnc  nharacr C1.trt, tioo ofthe. pccaua                                 tnea                  ..ylaat   dobe   I-too  th   ffito       Ib 0gPm.
'onotn ro0. -nl nbI rat  of delie  tfetiry  ar  totetno                                 etnce   of     -ntoi nt ant fctoto   Cornntdaaahno-afaeccAdor
clott io  roqieoorbot fot caref "pP"on"d primary maill         co
ueo  ttnboom AAolocOt t  -a-hed - Ate  -- ynrh..actuoiooy ypuP-loto                       rcomgnrl.oacnl.o   ata    t nr   nnutit  foe poptt;
FAt on.  -antort_lLoob-.d    .-Conotdoouccna  fee  areota                lngenfo  atOpurr_era of toondoy cnaioottte..
ache  t19O.   .c ond 191  dana.                                                            Fciji-..ei-be -aot  - ener.ad ....orden  - rtota  eCoen-  enroled Lot
SA cinh t-Ancout-IconI - Chinldt.. (0-L4 yeeta..  earftto-oga  (iS-                      pointCy ard  eoeyLe.aIe dintded by hter  of ot..nhers cc the
no  o-re)  and trrirrd (99 yeeen tod oreo  oerrrnee  of ed-peep papo-                          ac..emrondi   Leai..
Lota  aOh ,1970, an   90  ae                                                             dci  literoty trt- ertt    Li f....ttnadoi-  (one. 0  teed and ontte
-ortat- Gtratnhon -      nenoc   total - outtat gre-h Locee of tota  md-                        om.PeeCeetoga  or Cton1 adILtoolrc aged 15 ya Ieedoet
foo  (<iacon.lap1950-hO.  315-70, and 1970-d SO
-        RctttOoooMc   F-Ct I       _ aro  -AdeCof gro-h race. of -rtet popt-      C0SUI(T10OAt
bootoo  In :50fl  bNf-0 -oo  L970-O.Patroet  oroma  otco-d  oocotnef-  cmonge  crn  osriarmoo
--0000 A Into taco (non bhauocnt( - cotocall   LIo  tirtha pen tho...-d of eid-y...     coaaatgIe   htegtrtca;eoue   toacs   ere   n
ynno.lntno;  YnO,  SlO, o) :ntb-data                                                    otlitt  netnR
lod, 1970. cod c90it,bodneohogtttpbi   e  thousad of PtpoL.loto;eoLoo.
Onnee tononIctino fan     A-cotgooo atoLogtroo                L  be   o1ieednctaeIn Cnotrtee, and to Yetthe rttacn   fom
_e1.  nodnnn   eioo If ate noparianoae PCren..               ge...  t ...-ic  o-tr   a   oi   fo  dt   o    nt  eaeLy  o   e  onrbietton
"to  rotor; --aul ycrra  aLccc   cdigt  L9tD. 19700  and 19M0.                               ca       uoteafibeo1         iceh trg
nny  lta-Ac-ynto - ooooI (neade) - -..c.t coaefac.Ceore                               T     ane leer thtedpeLtnf- TVP ranatnere  far hr...dtoor,
,ootla ylatccg-Iaet  (netteer ad rrtied  wrooto   -Pcernentge of metingt   oeeiad                         i   er L   be,y rer. sh.. tleeo  TV  oe  ee.  oretLoc f-.
a   htild-beettnga0a  C150--uer) oh. tae hinthoCtor             donne  no             .oaete  C rnto  a  (a   hoen  erLrto                 theta the  -otag  i-tr
cur Lottion dented prtieriy heroodt   eerbot.It be-coottd-nd
FOOD 00D NUTRITION                                                                                  to he  diLy  'if it appeatm  at I...t f.c.tsaotk.
lnd-e on Food yro-nb-    ne  Copino clSbg-7i-lOOI - Indet of par coIno, onecl                  linen aanncluceden  co   oet   neYha-   Coan  the- noor o
-d-tlnofatro  nott. Ptoto   .Cnlode ..r..d and fard oed                                        cikc- ..da dunte  the neo, tnotna rmcat  drone- o cunem-
to on naLendar year oat na-  ObodttneaooI-   primaty god.eg  ograad mobile oote..
inon-d -o  uttbhhni  one rdtbhe ee                  lutoo  opra  as.cffe _d
-econ  no tde)   AOo-te9ne  rednoot  f  attnotr                .. oedC on               300 FOR9CE
notinnol onera go  roducer petna otidee; iSbI-AS,1ib0, and 1990 der.tTtoLbo  Force fr-o.edaf - tCendebc-Lly  tiePetoe   oli
enr_   ntnin    tntfo   op  e   ntalo   in-corypantrtonoe                                               go reoarc  of Alt  gem.  Dar.teti..m  to~ oett.o. o-Co te  are
ynr cay.  oAti.l..Plohe  opi-ecopt-    dm rIn   tdctr   p r I            baaP                  not `noParobim;ti9O, 1970 and 1990 dero-
irpcts  an-hogrhoeok.  get mophpr   tLdsat-   ed.ari                                     aot   peerf-Fml  abrfrae  pa ltotga cI na-ai lborf-rce
~toottte  aae  to    d pcn ie5  n  le...e.i  diettcio- tob ra                              aitCoe  epeei-t.hnforte te friog.  femr,hoto   0
me he  ate esimatedby FAO he...d no pttyttologhno1 neede. Cot -cere limt-                  fiehiet am  "ntreta tf  nnL1 labor force; .19         .. 1970 rd 1990 data.
and cot o iorethuni   of popoLattero  .dc o11iitag Idpnee0       o P nate otf                   andeicrny.atredoerpretgeftoelabrote
noonehid lanai  1961-95. 1970  od 1977 dto.                                                      iSbo, 1970 and 1990 dete.
..r acply offo   e   a.hr plf f.Lfotd ta defin~d a.aho.b                 t-aciiynea   r  no Ctd a   oa,ml.adfm                                           ao  fatneo
quineeeta  or oI  no ft..o ra liahibd by USDOA peo-ida  o   tiayretee   fttl   aead famlepoLoltoen  f o1  I oeer-yTntoecr
ellocetme of h  goon  f total prorat  per dec end 20 grema  fC teiml oal9t.ibd                         n  191  dt. Tem  ore haeb          r .P`art  ptotar
Po.ee  Crmi.L  of thih 10 gram        ..Icd he teohi  ptnmo   Aba.e eteod-                     reflect tg aen   atrootunef the potplaio. ad ice gtlm   neond.  uA
-td  are Lowe than  hboe. o  75 gesm  of  cral Prerela atd 13 greet of                         fan  tnsoetet  c    Ilttcnletre
otorat pocceo am atacemoa fer too otid, precosedby ?AO on t]he Chord           otonmi  Eoedortra - ae o  noa ieoo   cede  15 ard 65 and ant
bonId  Iedfrvy  1961-b5. i970 tea i9Pdaa.n Cthe _ taltber forte.
fr  c   -ua  ooai  ontoi  Oteceel  n  coe-roeotpply of food do-
ntaed Itom  acomaio aod calmr t  gaaeraoy; 19-           90od177 Ceee.               !NtOOft DITRtIBTICON
Child Jaet 1-of henb  oe  ernuo d)-gooi drone. Par Choo....d lo                           Prcraefrct   one   ht   tca   o   Ld) - n-cetne                        y
9,,,tPFt-  yeara. no ch,IldrenL toobo  ego prooF, for  mee  aealoiog cot                    ICyren  rcet20  percer              .pCer 10 prtn..to  poereat t4o0 on
tIrL dt  drnd   r.life nablam; 1960. 190odiS    oe                                             f h.t..hnold..
ILI oce t        -ca   Birth  ctta  -  arae "cbor of yeere of life  -omeinto                  T1he.alee  otita    r  taryaFctantaa-  fnaroo  yat-A  eo i
atlunto; .90   97 n960     60  oo,                                                            ndoho b h  tocarpretad lith osidrto-ecatte 
of oto  en ohoacod bc  htetn-96SbO  1970 and 1990 data                                 thooaptryinmlnL h  thtLb_                         enLnt0   ttfm              e
Acet -oSaetea  (Petcact of  eoiton         Ihtnl,l u-h-o  and naroI - Ite-               noIrronIomely  deqoate dItt  PIo ..m.... ill nn-f-cd nncrmea                o
eenanatoo to. cttend  horoociea,.... tpnitga        ...adortc celo .      e            cono  necoernotd00mlma  sc- hn   fnbs    e   at
nenonototee ofchenrnaocentin    p.....tboo.  t...    orhellorrOt-dpoitn                 Ieemitonooeooc.-                     -   Ir'olnoit P  eoefoteu
hnooat..nncnpee  loae   u   tena   0   aeafoabotcyb                                            ro   liojon   too hg_Ce                L ar  of  _Ltaoabnaea 
-haoal  aora  anlth      l   ostehnenleo   thneo   h   oshl                                 n   ot      ect  of yoolat 00 Iohailad totl)    .             g chooa 'todta
<thee of cfothe fr.t.L..urban, at aLrural0  a..nad byLeot-eref-  Ch ltC a
the colentlotend dlaneal..00th  h. ettotot...aumIn.ofrOs  onefn
an   at-mte  cc. estr-ored       mttmeor heum  of pot prine  ted hi..ntel-b.   .dI-I                                                                                 .
nplatic  pe y-      na p    nplato,diooe  be ctaher of, pranfhIn.g phyot                                                          tonet   ndSnalfroD7mi
ctr    oLlir  frmaedtLmhola   tnrty  e-l                                                                                 c,etnaayt   r   nfenatDprme
canla -onne   DioRete  ato -ooiie dtne  h   tehno  cat  "etaSe  16
otl  ad fnl   grdotLcoree  ool uaa ...... .rati..           norerso
ntraocguuotii. trtrt.          -     .r-~..   1                  ..1;



-25 -                                                        Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (X)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
*           Indicator                                       FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81          FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                        11,989                 4.0      -0.6         6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                  6,423                3.1       -1.3        4.3           59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                     1,680                7.9       -3.2        6.0            7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services /a                                     3,887                4.9        3.3        8.8           30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                      11,701                4.4       -0.7         5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                         2,064               10.9      -10.9        20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                               859                0.8     -11.7         5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                            2,635                8.8      -12.0         3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                               639              26.5      -17.7       -8.4            0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                  Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(million US$                                                        (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                   FY73      FY75      FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  710.8                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                        165.2                                                  40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                       545.6                                                 59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                                2,524.0                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                              342.4                                                  44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                         490.1                                                   3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                             580.0                                                  13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                           1,111.5                                                  38.9      37.8      35.1     44.0
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                  140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                        7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                            103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                            152.8       194.8      186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                           67.9        63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FY80       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                            5.0       5.4      9.5     10.6      12.0
Current expenditure    -                                                   6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        -1.5     +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
"apital expenditure                                                        8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                          7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                           4.2        -0.7        5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                                1.5        -3.3        3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
= not available
= not applicable
/a At market prices.
7W Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-26-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                     Projected
FY74       FY75        FY76       FY77        FY78        FY79       FY80        FY81          FY82       7Y63
Net exports of goods                                   -551     -1,050        -885        -454        -859       -946     -1,645      -1,813        -1,780      -1,938
Exports of goods                                      374         352        381         411         490        610         727         711          640         732
Imports of goods                                     -925      1,402      -1,266        -865     -1,349      -1,556     -2,372      -2,524        -2,420     -2,67C
Net exports of services                                 -21          12         -24        -29         -32        -27           3          11           -70       -12C
Workers' remittances                                      19         34          62         81         113         143        210         377           400        450
Current account balance                                -553     -1,004        -847        -402        -778       -830     -1,432      -1,425        -1,450      -1,608
Direct private investment                                76          ..          ..         ..          ..          ..                    5..
MLT loans (net)                                         276         498         498        238         398        420         581         481          501
Grants & grant-like flows                               174         382         245        265         393        553         591         616          650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                                45         275          52        -20         -38        -19         141         304           199
Change in reserves (- = increase)                        58       -151           53        -81          25       -124         119          24           100        -
International reserves (end of period)                  115         266        213         294         269        393         274         250           150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year             0.98        2.52       2.95        2.62        2.07       1.99        1.30        1.24         0.67        0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76         FY77         FY78        FY79         FY80         FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                       173.8        382.3       244.7        264.8        392.6        553.2        590.8       616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                      287.4        518.9       563.5        268.3        435.3        476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                        201.4       458.4        533.0        244.1        400.8        456.4       601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                        150.4        342.8        389.9        144.0       261.9        212.6        272.7        255.2
IDA                                               51.0        112.5        127.8         86.1         88.2       152.5        152.1        170.9
Other multilateral                                 -            3.1         15.3         14.1         50.7        91.3        176.9         83.4
Non-concessional                                     86.0         60.4        30.4         24.1         34.5         20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits                           40.6         45.2         16.5          5.6          1.7          3.3        16.8          2.0
IBRD
Other multilateral                                  5.4         0.3          1.1          0.5          0.5          0.1         0.3          0.8
Private                                           40.0         14.9         12.8         18.0         32.3         17.0        12.7         18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8            1,352.6      1,795.9      2,051.5      2,569.2     2,949.2      3,215.6      3,584.8
Official                                            383.3     1,232.8      1,689.0      1,939.8     2,435.6      2,808.3      3,068.8      3,462.1
IBRD                                               -           54.9         54.9         54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9         54.9
IDA                                              105.6        255.3        379.8       465.9        554.2        706.7        858.8     1,028.5
Other                                            222.8        922.6      1,254.3     1,419.0      1,826.5      2,046.7      2,155.1     2,378.7
Private                                             109.5       119.8        106.9        111.6        133.6        140.9       146.8        122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                      580.8      1,019.4        947.5     1,015.8      1,335.4      1,659.1     1,716.7      2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                            18.0         31.3         87.4         58.5        69.2         95.1         93.7        92.0
Interest                                              7.3         10.1        21.9         28.4         32.1        38.1         43.3         42.0
Payments as Z of export earnings                        4.8          8.9         22.9         14.2        14.1         15.6         12.9        12.9
Payments as % of GNP                                    0.2          0.2          1.2         0.9          0.8          1.0          0.8         0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (%)                  3.2          2.0          1.7          1.6         1.5          1.4          1.4          1.6
Official                                              2.9          2.0          1.6         1.5          1.3          1.4          1.2         1.5
Private                                               5.1          2.3         7.8          6.4          6.2          6.1         6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                  26.1         35.5         41.6        40.1         37.7         35.9         33.6        35.9
Official                                             28.3        35.8         42.2         40.8         38.6         36.3        34.2         36.2
Private                                              13.3         15.3        11.3         11.0          9.5         14.8        19.3         18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      -            4.0          3.0          2.6         2.1          1.8          1.7          1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements            -            -            -           -            -            -           -            -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                    -            -            1.8          5.6         4.8          4.1          3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                      21.4         18.8        21.1         22.7         21.6         24.0         26.7        28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements            17.7         21.7         22.7        32.1         20.3         32.0         24.0        32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                     1.3          3.1          2.5          5.3         5.4          4.6          6.0          7.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                             13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                            36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                             1.6
= not available.
ASADD
April 15. 1982



-27-                       ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at September 30, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                      54.90  684.32
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                        -      14.00     0.65
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)             -      25.00     2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -       7.50      0.10
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -      20.00      5.29
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -      62.00      1.88
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                          -      15.00     3.43
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                  -      27.00    12.31
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.00     7.64
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -          12.00     3.48
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -      16.00     5.97
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -      25.00     3.55
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -      16.00     2.55
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -      21.00    11.84
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -      10.00     2.62
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -       5.00      2.12
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -      21.00    13.40
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -      25.00    16.68
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00     3.15
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -       6.00      1.58
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -      19.00    13.57
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -      10.00     4.87
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00      5.06
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -      25.00    20.79
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population & Family Health II   -          32.00    28.93
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -      28.00    27.41
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                     -     22.00    10.48
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-28-                        ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                        US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                 -        25.00    22.34
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -        10.00     8.83
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -        50.00      0.05
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -        37.00    21.55
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -            20.00    19.20
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -        29.00    26.79
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -        20.00    15.60
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -        11.00     9.49
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II             -        25.00     0.20
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -        40.00    36.05
1065/c 1980   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III          -        35.00    34.42
1071/c 1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                -        65.00    12.80
1091/c 1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development         -        85.00    50.71
1096/c 1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                       -       25.00    18.98
1117,c 1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -        50.00    44.22
1124L/c 1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV          -        16.00    15.98
1140 /S  1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                  -        18.00    16.30
1147/C 1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit               -        40.00    40.00
1184/c 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                    -        27.00    26.00
1194/c 1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                 -       100.00    66.55
/c 1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -            15.00    15.00
/c 1205/b 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                        -       30.00    30.00
/c 1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II         -        27.00    27.00
/c 1247/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Port                   -        60.00    60.00
/c 1254/b 1982   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Thermal Power            -        92.00    92.00
/c 1262/b 1982   Bangladesh   Rural Electrification             -        40.00    40.00
/c 1287/b 1982   Bangladesh   Second Deep Tubewells             -        68.00    68.00
Total                                                 54.90  2,242.82 1,03'0.16
of which has been repaid                              -        0.40      -
Total now outstanding                                 54.90  2,242.42 1,030.16
Amount sold                               0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  2,242.42
Total undisbursed                                      -    .1,030.16 1,030.16
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not yet effective.
/c   IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of principal
shown in US$ equivalent at time of negotiation and undisbursed amounts
computed at the September, 1982 rate.



-29-                        ANNEX II
Page 3
la
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                          Amount in US$ Million
Year             Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979       Highspeed Shipbuilding            Ship-
and Heavy Engineering             building
Co. Ltd.                                             1.20    0.36      1. 56
1980       IPDC                              DFC                 -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                         1.20    1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -               -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                               1.20    1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                               0.65      -       0.65
/a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                  Tannery            2.1        .2     2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                         ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981.  The Government have been
requested to confirm that no further applications for expenditure are pending
and that the undisbursed balance amount can be cancelled.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation mainly due to the land tenure system and credit facilities.
However, there has been an increase of one third over the previous years
cultivation. Good progress is maintained on civil works construction in the
extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary pumps, gates and
low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries should have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area.
Generally progress is satisfactory. The project could be completed before
the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown remarkable progress in 1981/82 and if adequate funds are released in
1982/83 completion except for flood embankments will be by June 1983. GOB
expects to provide shortly technical justifications and social reasons for the
deletion of embankments. The trend on agricultural development is encouraging
and expected benefits would be attained. The current project estimates with
embankments and including additional intricate works show a cost overrun of
37 .5%.
The fisheries component is essentially completed. The Raipur
hatchery is in full production and final disbursements are expected to be
made up to the end of 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Following a request from GOB that the credit closing date be
extended to allow completion of components initially delayed, the closing
date has been extended to June 30, 1983. Project implementation is now



-31-                       ANNEX II
Page 5
proceeding satisfactorily and the project should be completed according to
the new schedule. Sale of Deep Tubewells is almost complete but sale of
Low Lift Pumps is slow. The Rural Industries component has been intensified.
Project management is much improved.
Cr. No. 724   shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date:  December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation which was about two years behind schedule
will suffer a further setback for delays in finalizing the design and tender
documents for the closure dam work. The Feni Regulator is expected to be
operational in February 1983. Agricultural and IRDP activities will commence
in early 1982/83. Farmers' response for adoption of improved agricultural
practice and group formation appears good. A cost overrun is expected due
to a likely increase in the cost of the closure works.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
As of September 30, 1982 US$7.38 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on June 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component has been scaled down.



-32-                          ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978;  Effective Date:  September 29, 1978;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained additional momentum and
is now satisfactory.  The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced
from 25,000 MT to 10,000 MT, and the number of paddy drying from 15 MT to 5 MT
as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation have been
awarded for 7 ,750 MT, and tenders are being issued for civil works construc-
tion of paddy dryers and evaluated for drying equipment. Quality control
equipment has been procured, but considerable additional efforts are required
in the area of grain quality control and inspection. The project is now
anticipated to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Almost all research station buildings are now complete and farm development
only remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research
programs on research stations and those supported by the research grant
scheme are being vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now
operating well and a monitoring and evaluation cell, established at BARC
headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the project to all
grant-supported research.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project is designed to assist in the development of a group of
six oxbow lakes through the introduction of composite techniques for fish
culture and improved lake management technologies. Hatchery and rearing
facilities will be established for the production of carp fingerlings for
stocking of project lakes where little stocking took place in the past. As
a result, annual carp production from project lakes is estimated to increase



-33-                        ANNEX II
Page 7
from 138 MT to 1,100 MT, representing an eight fold increase. Hatchlings
and fry will also be sold to pond owners. This will have a country-wide
impact introducing for the first time fish farming technology based on
composite fish culture for small water bodies in private ownership. A
project implementation unit, supported by an international consultancy firm
has been set up within the Directorate of Fisheries. Construction of the
central hatchery at Lake Baluhar started in January 1982, some 12 months
behind schedule.  The delay was caused by managerial and administrative
weaknesses and shortage of counterpart funds. It is now expected that the
central hatchery will start operations in March/April 1983 and the satellite
hatcheries one year thereafter.  Full project benefits are expected for 1986.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects were approved in FY81 and FY82 respectively.
Construction has been completed on eleven subprojects. Progress is satisfac-
tory. However, there is a need to increase substantially the allocations to
the revolving fund to avoid delays in project implementation due to shortages
of funds. This issue is currently being discussed with GOB.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the
Phase I sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been
placed for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. About 40% of the LLPs under Phase I of
the sales program has been sold. A detailed project Action Plan has been
prepared. About 95% of the projected disbursements (as percentage of appraisal
estimate) has been made.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall Project performance is good.  The establishment of planta-
tions was carried out according to SAR targets in 1981 and current progress
indicates that this year's target will also be achieved. The procurement of
essential equipment and materials has been completed. The civil works program
has now started and physical progress on the first phase is estimated at
about 15%. However, staffing remains behind the SAR target. The implementa-
tion of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No activity
on the Public Relations Component has been started. As a response to the
April/May Supervision, FD has agreed to give high priority to intensify
overall activity on the lagging operations.



-34-                         ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140  Hand Tubewells Project:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date:  February 11, 1982; Closing Date:  March 31, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works are complete
and plans are well in hand for local foundries to fabricate pumpheads. However,
shipment of raw materials has been delayed by preshipment inspection problems.
BUET and BARC/BARI are being contracted to carry out laboratory and field
testing of alternative handpump models.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers
for investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and
to private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization
of shallow tubewells is proceeding very slowly. Although import licenses have
been issued to authorized private dealers, opening of the letters of credit
is delayed by a new directive not to import certain makes previously author-
ized. STW prices set by GOB are still below those of private dealers.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation
agency, is yet to be made.
Cr. No. 1184  Second Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1982.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1287 Second Deep Tubewells Project:  US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency



-35-                      ANNEX II
Page 9
fluctuations, supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained.
The Project has now been mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor
commissioning problems, production of urea was started in December 1981, about
six months later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and
total project costs are likely to be about US$15 million higher than that
approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit are
still under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB-s loan account-
ing and staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB-s
financial position has weakened significantly. This area of operational
weakness is receiving close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating
closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program to restore BSB's
financial viability.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$49.9 million has been disbursed. The
credit was closed on February 28, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices



-36-                        ANNEX II
Page 10
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$24.8 million had been disbursed.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 1065  Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. IDA is also coor-
dinating closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program aimed at
improving BSB's collection performance and financial viability. As of
September 30, 1982 US$31.7 million of the credit has been committed and
US$5.0 million disbursed.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of September
30, 1982 US$33.4 million had been disbursed.



-37-                       ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
*         Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construc-
tion of two new Thana Training Units (50% complete) and for renovation of two
existing Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI), both of which have been slow
to complete due to lack of Taka funds. GOB has now released the needed funds
and work has resumed. The latest estimate (June 1982) for completion of all
works is December 1982. As a result of student strikes in 1981, no first
year students were enrolled and all ATIs are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
intends to utilize the excess space this year for in-service training of VEAs.
Staffing is adequate and all ATI instructors have received in-service training
under the project. The course to train project managers and those civil
servants directly concerned with implementation of IDA financed agricultural
projects has been successful and an extension of the course to December 1982
has been recently approved by IDA. A further extension to June 1983 is now
under consideration. At the request of GOB, extension of the closing date
from June 30, 1982 to June 30, 1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough
time to complete all remaining civil works and project activities and to
close all project accounts.
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress is evident in several areas of project activity. Bids
have been invited, and the layout plans completed, for the 5 New TTCs.
Equipment being procured by the ILO has started arriving in Bangladesh, and
arrangements for storage, checking, and installation (where possible) are well
advanced. Instructor and In-Plant Training programs are underway. The majority
of Technical Assistance experts are deployed, and a fellowship training
program (suspended for 1 year) prepared. Curriculum Development, trade
standards and tests, and a national vocational training policy are under
preparation. Increased cooperation between the Ministry of Labor (TTCs) and
Ministry of Education (VTI) in Vocational Training is also evident. Project
management, however, continues to be weak and the failure to replenish the
Revolving Fund has hampered instructor and In-Plant training programs.



-38-                         ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 1054  Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The construction program is now underway, but it emphasizes school
repairs and other minor works at some 300 schools. However, designs, plans
and estimates for a further 611 schools (including 289 new schools) and other
project buildings are being prepared. Schedules for school furniture have
been prepared and tenders invited. Textbooks for Class I & II students
procured and tenders invited for the manufacture of girls uniforms. Most
staff are now in position but effectiveness of project management is being
hampered by internal conflicts at the project Director level. A plan for
the recurrent training of teachers has been prepared and the training of PTI
instructors, Thana Education Officers and Asst. Thana Education Officers,
is underway. During the past year 370 officers and teachers were trained.
Four experts under the technical assistance component of the project are now
in post and an agreement signed with the British Council to undertake four
studies required under the project.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  September 25, 1975; Closing Date:  September 30,
1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$11.57 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government's
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.



-39-                         ANNEX II
Page 13
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  August 7, 1973;  Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the Government
has announced that it intends to contest the award, although an out of court
settlement remains a possibility. The Closing Date of the credit extended to
March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of
uncommitted credit balance to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels
and BIWTA service vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants
appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and
accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Imple-
mentation of the recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress.
At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been extended to
December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower's
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g., the inability of the
"Procurement Committee" to take timely decisions and standard Government
procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096  Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by end-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.



-40-                         ANNEX II
Page 14
Cr. No. 1247  Chittagong Port Project:  US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds had until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to which all
funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting functions have been
transferred from Controller's Auditor General to TTB. The overhaul of account-
ing functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well. Recruitment of
staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and trained cadre
of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be preapred from FY82/83 onward.
In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Thus, TTB is
gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to
adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since
May 1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement, including national
trunk and international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
37 subprojects, totalling about $10.7 million have been approved.
The credit is about half disbursed and has been over allocated to increase
disbursements. Sixteen subprojects have been completed. The remaining
subprojects are proceeding smoothly except in several instances, consultant
contracts have not been finalized.



+~- 34 {7!J 32
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                    Page  1
BNGCLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BNCLADESH                  REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVYRAGES
ASEA (SHOUSAND SQ.                                                            MO.)  -  OST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TWA-144                                      .    MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME               MI0LE lNCOME
AGRICULTURAL     97.3             1960 lb   1970 /b ESTLMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
CUP PER CAPITA (US$)                40.0       70.0    130.0              261.4                  890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      ..       24.9      39.7             448.7                  701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THoUSANDS) 53491.0    68117.0  88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1       7.6      11.0              17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUlATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                  141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED              2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                    371.5      473.0    600.7              158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. K4. AGRICULTURAL LAND   561.9     703.0    889.0              355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       44.3       46.3      42.8              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                       52.5       51.0      54.6              59.7                   56.8
65 YES. AND ABOVE                 3.2        2.7       2.6               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            1.9        2.4       2.6               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                            3.6        6.3       6.5               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BlRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    53.5      49.2      45.3              29.3                   31.8
CRtUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.1     22.7      18.2              11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.6        3.4       2.9               2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..      373.0   1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        ..       8.9/c            19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       106.0      101.0      97.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 87.3       84.7       ..               97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        43.9       42.7        ..              56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PDUSE      9.1        8.7        ..              20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    24.S      23.0      20.0              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.3      41.6      46.3              57.8                   59.8
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        159.0      150.3    136.1               89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SWFE WATER (PERCET OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       45.0      53.0/d            32.9                   32.0
URBAN                             ..       13.0      15.0/;            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                             ..       47.0      55.0/f            22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOAL                              ..        6.0       5.01e            18.1                   37.7
RBAN                              ..                                   n ..  40.0/;  7.7      65.7
UIRAL                             ..         *.        ..               4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..     8427.2/f 12691.9/c          3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..    7680.3  40489.7/;            4929.3                 429.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             ..     7m21.5Jl  4499.3/c          1100.4                 1047.5
VW"                               ..      $I8.5I    627.4r;           301.3                  651.6
RURAL                             ..         ..  23362.4rc           5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         ..        ..              ...                    27.0
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF BOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             *-        5.9/b    5.8
URUAN                             ..        6.17;    6.1
IWKAL                             ..        5.97ir    5.8                ..                      ..
AVERAGE NIMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERcENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..         ..       3.5
URUN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..






-41-                        ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1124  Fourth Technical Assistance Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. Thre. subprojects
for about $0.2 million have been committed. A number of proposed subprojects
totalling about $7.0 million have been agreed in principle and steps are being
t          taken to secure consultant services.  In addition, a pipeline of subprojects
totalling about $15.0 million is under consideration.
r          Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981 and conditions have been created to recuperate part of the delay.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Major procurement activities have been completed. Construction of
the Bakhrabad-Chittagong pipeline has been suspended because of the current
monsoon. The construction contract requires completion of the pipeline by
end-March 1983 in line with the original schedule. The last gas well (BK-5)
has been completed. Test results from the drilling program so far confirm
gas reserves and well productivity forecasts by reservoir consultants.
Cr. No. 1254 Ashuganj Thermal Power Project: US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262 Rural Electrification Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit is not yet effective.



-42-                       ANNEX II
Page 16
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation
will be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not
sufficient and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has
been improvement in the collection of arrears from Government departments,
further improvement is still necessary.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Tiiae taken to prepare project:
4 years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
UNDP/IDA with the assistance of the Institute of
Public Administration (Consultants)
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
September 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
February 3, 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
21arch 11, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) that Government enter into an agreement or agreements
with an academic institution(s), agency(s) or firm(s)
(paragraph 48);



- 44 -
ANINEX III
Page 2
(b) Government's approval of the project proforma
(paragraph 50).
Other            (a) The Government would prepare and submit for IDA
Conditions:          Review by December 31, 1983, a Project Administrative
Plan (paragraph 45);
(b) The Government would carry out the fellowship program
in accordance wth a training program acceptable to
IDA (paragraph 48).



