Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF029782 
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3508 AM
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated July 6, 2001
TF029782
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 3508 AM
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2001 between THE  REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) 
of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and the Minister in support of a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Recipient’s economy set forth in a letter addressed to the Association dated March 5, 
2001 (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program;
(B)
the Administrator has made a credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in a Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 3508 AM) dated May 
31, 2001 between the Recipient and the Administrator (the Credit Agreement);
(C)
the Minister wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in the 
amount of ten million Dutch guilders (NLG 10,000,000) (the Dutch Grant) in support of 
the Program;
(D) 
pursuant to the General Arrangement, entered into between the Minister, 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International 
Development Association (IDA), (IBRD and IDA being herein collectively referred to as 
the Bank), dated May 24, 1995 (the Arrangement), and the Arrangement between the 
Minister and the Bank dated June 22, 2001, the Minister has appointed the Bank and the 
Bank has agreed to administer the grant funds to be made available by the Minister 
under the same terms and conditions as under Credit No. 3508 AM, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangement and has authorized the Bank to do 
Page  2
all such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out such 
administration, including entering into this Grant Agreement on behalf of the 
Minister; and
(E)
the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Recipient under this agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) shall be considered part of 
the bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Recipient;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 
1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, subject, 
however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arrangements, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in 
Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Borrower" whenever used in the General Conditions means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Dutch Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
(e)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant Account opened by the Administrator on its books, in the name of the 
Grantee, to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(f)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, shall be modified to read:
"the term ‘Project’ means the goods that may be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Dutch Grant Agreement.";
(g)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement."
(h)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(i)
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(j)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
(k)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project, the performance by the Grantee and 
the Administrator of their respective obligations under the Dutch Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Dutch Grant"; and
(l)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a) and 12.05 are deleted.
Page  3
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) 
the terms "Dutch guilders" and "NLG" mean the currency of the 
Netherlands; and
(b)
the term "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an 
amount of ten million Dutch guilders (NLG 10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section and fulfillment of the conditions of first tranche release, the Recipient 
shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Dutch Grant from the Dutch Grant 
Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Administrator the 
first request for withdrawal from the Dutch Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in 
its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator.  All withdrawals from the Dutch Grant Account shall be deposited by 
the Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall not 
be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant Account shall have been used to make a payment for an 
expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of 
said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be 
credited to the Dutch Grant Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the Development Credit Agreement, including the Schedules referred to therein, are 
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were 
fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references in said Articles to 
the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator 
of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement, all references to the "Borrower" shall be 
deemed to be references to the Recipient, and all references to the "Credit" and the 
"Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Dutch Grant and the Dutch 
Grant Account, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The 
Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient 
to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any 
further action or formality being required on the part of any party and, from such 
date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under 
this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date on which the 
Bank receives notice of completion of internal approval procedures required under the 
Laws of the Recipient and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance 
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:     
24333 LADA SU
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Vartan Khachatrian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
Provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT 
COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Page  5
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Dutch Grant
For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Dutch 
Grant shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Recipient;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Administrator shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Administrator shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Administrator by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-factured, tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco sub-stitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, unworked or worked
718
   718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors
728.43
-
Tobacco processing machinery
897
   897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths' 
or silversmiths' wares (including set 
gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party; and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures:  (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Administrator or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Page  6
