                                                                                             87473
                                                                                         CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                           EDS2001-0231

                                                                                              May 21, 2001
                                                                                              06:40:59 PM



Statement by Todd Crawford
Date of Meeting: May 22, 2001

             Armenia - Country Assistance Strategy, Interim PRSP, and Fourth
                                 Structural Adjustment Credit

Overview and Key Challenges:

1.     This CAS presents a candid and thorough discussion of the economic challenges facing
Armenia, and we commend staff on its completeness and linkage with the Interim-PRSP. We
concur with the three basic thrusts of the CAS: private sector-led growth; improved governance;
and investment in human capital. This is a good example of how the CAS will evolve, through the
PRSP process, into a selective business plan that reflects the borrowing country’s priorities as
expressed in its PRSP.

2.       We commend the broad range of consultations that informed the CAS. This broadly
participatory process is critical to building a strong consensus on the key growth and poverty
reduction imperatives and to fostering national ownership of the reform program to achieve those
objectives. We encourage the authorities to maintain this participatory framework to ensure that
this is a genuinely consultative and representative process.

3.      Sustained economic growth and poverty reduction are linked to the permanent resolution of
the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh. The conflict has increased the prominence of defense spending
and national security programs at the expense of outlays on health and basic education, as noted in
para. 10 and Box 2. Reducing the high level of military spending, once this conflict is resolved,
will free up resources that can be directed to critical social sectors.

Macroeconomic Assessment:

4.      Armenia’s economic performance has improved significantly in recent months. GDP
growth is up sharply due to a boom in construction and strong export growth. Higher growth has
boosted tax revenues in nominal terms, allowing the government to pay down some domestic
arrears. However, this improved economic performance is based in part on short-term factors
rather than strong policy actions. In particular, the recovery represents in part catch-up from the
poor economic performance in late 1999 and early 2000. To reinforce recent gains and set the
stage for poverty reduction, Armenia should take action to correct four interrelated issues: weak
fiscal policy, quasi-fiscal leakages, endemic corruption, and high external debt. In this regard, as
                                                                    2




noted above, we concur with the thrusts of this CAS and its linkage to the I-PRSP. We encourage
the authorities to adhere to the commitments as outlined in the PRGF that was just approved by the
IMF Board.

Lending Program:

5.       We generally agree with the lending and non-lending program set forth in the CAS. In
keeping with the I-PRSP focus on export-led growth, and the Bank’s analysis (para 26) of the
volatility of Armenia’s chief exports and its main markets, we are interested in how the Bank
would support greater capacity with respect to trade and related transport and communications
once the regional conflict is resolved, and how this could be worked into the CAS program. We
would have liked to see more explicit inclusion of the private sector in the CAS strategy,
particularly as it encourages "a larger role for civil society in policy making and implementation."


6.      We note that a PRSC is planned in the high case scenario; this should not come forward
prior to Board endorsement of a full PRSP and completion of the PER, CPAR and CFAA planned
for FY02.

7.      We welcome the discussion in Box 1 of the scope and regional/gender distribution of
poverty in Armenia. We share staff’s concern that poverty may be becoming entrenched as a
result of disinvestment in human capital. Although cash payments for social spending are
scheduled to rise this year, the planned PER will help to ensure that such spending is effective and
transparent. We are also concerned that accumulated pension and wage arrears remain a major
contributor to poverty.

8.      Similarly, we welcome the candid discussion of corruption issues in Box 3 and look
forward to passage of a Financial Disclosure Law for public officials. Transparency in
government operations and expenditures is essential to spur private sector-led growth. Toward
this end, we welcome the establishment of an anti-corruption commission and encourage the
authorities to implement swiftly its upcoming laws on financial disclosure and civil service
reform. The Bank's initiative to build "effective public-private consultative mechanisms" is a
good first step at addressing the supply and demand sides together and should be supplemented as
appropriate with other programs aimed at the private sector's interaction with the government.

9.      We welcome the discussion of gender issues in para. 13. The January ECA Workshop on
Gender and Labor Markets in Transition Economies found that women have been differentially
adversely affected by the social costs of the transition period, restructuring of economies, and
reductions of social expenditure. We are troubled by reports of increased trafficking in women,
and look to the gender initiatives identified through development of the full-PRSP to increase
economic opportunities for Armenian women. Furthermore, we welcome the discussion of core
labor standards in para. 24.

10.      The breadth of ESW proposed in this CAS is commendable (Box 4). We have already
mentioned the planned PER, CPAR and CFAA, which we welcome. The recent FSSA provides
critical analysis to guide the authorities in strengthening the banking sector as part of the broader


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    3




objective of spurring private sector-led growth. The FSSA indicates that trust in the banking
system is fragile, due to a number of weaknesses in banking sector oversight and regulation.
Accordingly, we urge that the authorities implement measures to tighten banks’ accounting
standards, prudential rules for loan classification and loss provisioning, and capital quality
standards to build trust in the banks.

11.     The CAS draws an appropriate link between natural resource management and poverty
reduction (para 48). However, we would have liked the CAS to be more systematic in its
diagnostics related to the environment, as suggested by background work recently performed by the
Bank. Problematic baseline environmental conditions identified in the CAS include scarcity of
potable water, depletion of fisheries, urban pollution, agricultural land degradation and loss of
forests. In each case, the CAS should specify: 1) causal factors; 2) effects of these conditions on
economic growth (i.e., productivity losses, income losses, input price increases) and poverty (i.e.,
income and consumption, health, vulnerability); and 3) the proposed elements of the CAS designed
to improve the problematic conditions.

12.     We note plans for an IDF Environmental Management and Cultural Heritage project in
Annex 4. We again reiterate our position that the World Bank’s comparative advantage and
resources are not best applied to an operation in the area of Cultural Heritage funding. We urge
that the cultural heritage portion of this project be dropped and the resources be applied to an area
where Armenia’s needs and the World Bank’s comparative advantage intersect.

I-PRSP:

13.     This document reflects a broadly participatory approach, which is critical to building a
strong consensus on the key growth and poverty reduction imperatives and to fostering national
ownership of the reform program to achieve those objectives.

14.     Poverty Assessment: We welcome the candid discussion of poverty in Section II. The full
PRSP will need to be more comprehensive in its assessment of the scope, gender dimension,
regional balance and nature of poverty, and use data generated under the upcoming Poverty Study
to better target and monitor poverty reduction initiatives.

15.      Timing of Full PRSP – We welcome the authorities’ plan to formulate a Medium-Term
Expenditure Program, due to be completed until September 2001, however, we agree with the
Joint Staff Assessment recommendation (para 15) that it is overly ambitious to plan completion of
the full PRSP by December 2001. As they work to finalize the full PRSP, the authorities need to
pay significant attention to formulating a cost-based plan of action to address the poverty reduction
priorities, as well as addressing the current shortcomings in public expenditure management.
While we welcome the discussion of monitoring indicators in Section VI, we will look to the full
PRSP to demonstrate progress in documenting social indicators and the degree to which the
authorities’ efforts, as laid out in this I-PRSP, have begun to yield positive results.

16.    Public Expenditures: We share the concern of staff and the authorities that Armenia’s
human capital stock is deteriorating along with declining access to and quality of primary
education and basic health care services. The declining level of government spending on


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    4




education and health is worrisome, but we are equally concerned about the effectiveness and
transparency of government spending on these critical social sectors. We look to the full PRSP to
provide greater detail on the efforts to strengthen public expenditure management and how
international donors are supporting those efforts.

17.     Corruption: We welcome the frank discussion of corruption in the I-PRSP (para. 25) and
the authorities’ recognition that transparency in government operations and expenditures is
essential to spur private sector-led sustainable economic growth. Toward this end, we welcome
the government’s decision to establish an anti-corruption commission, and look forward to passage
of a law requiring financial disclosure by public officials.

Structural Adjustment Credit:

18.     We support the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit and commend staff for configuring the
credit with multiple tranches and meaningful triggers. We especially welcome the link between
the release of the floating tranche and privatization of the power distribution companies. Reform
of the power sector is critical to Armenia’s goal of private sector-led growth, as articulated in the
I-PRSP. We encourage the Armenian Government to remain focused on this key reform objective,
and implement fully this critical tranche condition in a timely fashion. The Bank must be prepared
to withhold funding if it is not fulfilled




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
