                                                                                                87472
                                                                                         CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                           EDS2001-0229
                                                                                               May2I, 2001
                                                                                               05:54:16 PM




Statement by Pieter Stek
Date of Meeting: May 22,2001

                  Armenia: Country Assistance Strategy, Fourth Structural
             Adjustment Credit and Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

Introduction
Support from the Bank, and the Fund, have been essential for Armenia during the first decade of
its transition from plan to market. During that period, the country has made major progress, but
due to the long-term nature of the transition process and special political and economic
challenges facing the country, there is a need for sustained efforts by all parties involved.
Therefore, I am grateful that the new Country Assistance Strategy reconfirms the Bank's
preparedness to support the Government and the people of Armenia. Yesterday, the IMF Board
approved a new PRGF for Armenia.

I would like to underscore a few key points in the CAS, the Interim PRSP and the fourth
Structural Adjustment Credit.

Strategic orientation
The macro-economic performance of Armenia over the past few years has been remarkable~
especially if one takes into account the restrictions on access to foreign markets, the economic
crisis in Russia and the unstable domestic and external political situation. Evidence of the
Government's ability to manage the economy can be found in exchange rate stability, relatively
modest external debt and low inflation. It goes without saying that this macro-economic
performance will become unsustainable without growing public revenue, better governance of
public institutions, a more welcoming business environment and job creation. All this and better
basic public services are essential to reduce poverty. With the three pronged strategy presented in
the Interim PRSP, the Govenunent recognises the challenges. The Bank subscribes to the focus
on a better environment for entrepreneurs, public sector management and reducing corruption
and rebuilding human and physical capital. As compared to the previous CAS, the Bank
acknowledges the need to reorient its support towards institutional development (paragraph 38).

The Interim PRSP
We welcome the staffs positive assessment ofthe I-PRSP as the product of a comprehensive
effort and participatory process on the way to a full strategy for poverty reduction. The
authorities recognise that in the past too little attention was paid to issues related to poverty. They
are ready to take the full ownership of the process with substantial participation from business
                                                                  2



and civil society. Donor participants in the Consultative Group meeting in Yerevan, last October,
had an opportunity to meet with representatives oflocal groups and to observe that the
Government stands ready to engage in a discussion with them. This will continue in the process
leading up to the PRSP. The recent establishment of a business council to work towards taking
away barriers to investment is a concrete example of public-private partnership.

        By its very nature, the Interim PRSP is incomplete in terms of policy choices, monitoring
indicators and data. The Government has a clear time schedule to fill in the "gaps" in order to
complete a full PRSP by the end of the year, including a medium-term expenditure framework.

The CAS
Rebuilding human capital requires investments in education as well as health services, for which
the Bank is providing and will provide support. Even though the Government and the Joint staffs
slightly disagree on the best way to do this, there can hardly be disagreement about the need to
ensure access to education and health services for everyone in Armenia, including the poorest
(JSA Paragraph 11).

        Even more important than the Bank's financial support for social sectors, is the
reorientation of the budget towards key sectors and enhancing domestic capacity for public
service delivery. The CAS sets out a significant program of Economic and Sector Work as well
as program and project lending to address major challenges. The SAC covers measures to
enhance the targeting of social security, improve funding of health and education and to improve
the tax and customs administration. In addition, the Bank and the Government plan a Public
Expenditure Review, a Country Financial Accountability Assessment, a Public Sector Reform
Credit and several sector operations to enhance the efficiency of public services.

        Rebuilding human capital and strong public management lay the foundations for private
sector investment and growth for poverty reduction. The CAS, the fourth SAC and the Interim
PRSP reflect a very deliberate effort by the Government to reduce the barriers to investment and
to attract foreign investors notwithstanding the difficult external environment. Even though the
privatisation of the power distribution companies has not been realised so far, a strong and
transparent framework for their privatisation is in place. This should lead to the sale of the
companies before the end ofthe year and also facilitate the preparation of other privatisations.

        Many participants at the highly successful Armenian Investor Conference in New York
on May 9 and 10 were encouraged by recent improvements in the business environment. A
number of them are interested in participating in an IFC venture capital fund. MIGA intends to
help strengthen the Armenian Development Agency in order to enable it to assist foreign
investors. The SAC, the Interim PRSP and several projects and ESW products in the CAS
contain key measures to improve the business environment. Many of these measures flow from
the very useful FIAS Barriers to Investment study. The Financial Sector Assessment shows that,
while the basic legal framework is in place, banks have serious weaknesses and financial services
are relatively underdeveloped. The assessment should help the Government to identify actions to
strengthen and develop the financial sector in the same way it has been using advisory work in
other sectors.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                  3




Conclusion and outlook
The economic prospects for Armenia are closely linked to developments in Nagomo-Karabakh,
its relations with Turkey and the role of the Armenian Diaspora. Medium term growth
projections of around 6 percent are realistic on the basis of continued strong macro-economic
performance, entry into the WTO and proposed measures to enhance institutional and social
development. In 2001, growth is expected to be fuelled by a surge in tourism in connection with
the celebration of the 1700th anniversary of Christianity in Armenia. Steady private sector
growth has become the main driving force and exports also have been growing rapidly since
1998, with the growth rate reaching 16 percent already in 2000 and approaching 30 percent on a
year-to-year basis in the first quarter of2001. The optimistic scenario in the Interim PRSP
assumes a settlement in the conflict about Nagomo-Karabakh with concomitant improvements in
the external environment and confidence on the side of investors. Armenia is hopeful that this
scenario will materialise. In the meantime, I strongly believe that the policy program of the
Armenian Government deserves the Bank's support. My Dutch authorities are convinced that this
is the case, as they plan to provide co-financing for the SAC and assistance for the strengthening
of the judiciary and public resource management. I trust that the Board will reach the same
conclusion.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
