Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22878-TUN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38920; SCL-3892A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
NATIONAL RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
12/28/01
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of November 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
TD 1.00 = US$ .68215
USS 1.00 = TD 1.46595
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
AFD          Agence Fran,caise de Developpement (formerly Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement)
ANPE         Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement
APBT         Association Professionaelle des Banques de Tunisie (Professional Association of
Banks of Tunisia)
APIA         Agence de Promotion des Investissements Agricoles (Agricultural Investment
Promotion Agency)
ASAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASIL          Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
BCT           Ban que Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BNA           Banque Nationale Agricole (National Agricultural Bank)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFD           Caisse Fran,caise de DeveTopp ment (now Agence Francaise de Developpement)
CLCM          Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel (Local Mutual Credit Agency)
CNEA          Centre National des Etudes Agricoles (National Center for Agricultural Studies)
CRDA          Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole (Regional Agricultural
Development Commission)
CTAMA         Compagnie Tunisienne d'Assurances Muttelles Agricoles
EFRSL         Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan
FNG          Fonds National de Garantie (National Guarantee Fund)
GoT           Govemment of Tunisia
IBRD         Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW          Kreditanstaltfzir Wiederaujbau
MFF           Ministere de la Femme et de la Famille (Ministry of Woman and Family)
MIS           Management Information System
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MMR           Money Market Rate (Taux du Marche Mon&taire)
MTASAP        Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
ONC           Office National des Cerales (National Cereal Board)
ONH           Office National de l'Huile (National Olive Oil Board)
PDRI         Programme de Developpement Rural Integre (Rural Poverty Alleviation Program)
PSR           Project Status Report
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SCMA         Societe de Caution Mutuelle Agricole (Agricultural Mutual Guarantee Society)
TOR          Terms of Reference
UTAP          Union Tunisienne de l'Agriculture et de la Peche (Tunisian Association for Agriculture
and Fisheries)
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
Acting Sector Manager.    Deane Jordan
Task Team Leader:   Stephanie Gober



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NATIONAL RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  11
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       14
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      16
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                             17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonrance                                      24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  25
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                                26
Annex 9. National Guarantee Fund (FNG) Payment Structure                               37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005720                                        Project Name: TN-RURAL FINANCE
Team Leader: Stephanie Gober                               TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TN-RURAL FINANCE                                L/C/TFNumber: CPL-38920;
SCL-3892A
Country/Department: TUNISIA                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector.' AF - Fisheries & Aquaculture; Al - Irrigation &
Drainage; AL - Livestock; AM - Agro-Industry &
Marketing; AP - Perennial Crops
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/18/1994                               Effective: 10/04/1995         09/21/1995
Appraisal:  11/30/1994                                 MTR: 04/30/1997            10/20/1998
Approval.  05/23/1995                               Closing: 09/30/1999          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: BNA/BNA and Ministry of Agriculture
Ot71er Partners: KfW, AFD (fornerly CFD)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                          Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:      Deane N. Jordan (Acting)                    Odin Knudsen
Team Leader at ICR:   Stephanie Gober                           Bemard Dussert
ICR Primary Author:   Fatouma Toure Ibrahima
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Peiformance: U
Borrower PerJbrmance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the projects primary development objectives were
to assist Tunisia in promoting creditworthy private investment in rural areas and in strengthening, on a
sustainable basis, the financial viability and institutional reform process of Banque Nationale Agricole
(BNA) in order to improve its development impact on the country's rural sector. Specifically, the project
was to assist in: (1) supporting the implementation of a sound action plan to recapitalize BNA, address its
arrears problems, and improve its overall profitability; (2) developing an effective strategic planning
process, decentralized organizational plan and internal controls for BNA to implement improved lending
policies, risk analysis and client selection, provide credit to all creditworthy farmers (including small
farmers), and expand financial intermediation (credit and savings) in rural areas; and (3) developing a pilot
program for the establishment of group lending schemes at the village level. These objectives were, and
continue to be, important. They reflect priorities for rural development in Tunisia as identified both by the
Government of Tunisia (GoT) in its Eighth Plan and by the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) articulated
in April 1993. The objectives of the project were clearly defined and supported the government's efforts to
develop the rural private sector and to alleviate rural poverty.
The SAR identified two major risks outside the control of BNA: weather-related risk and
reform-related risk. Weather-related risk referred to the comrnon occurrence of widespread drought in
Tunisia; reform-related risk referred to unilateral decisions by the GoT to assist farmers, often by declaring
interest rate reductions or debt forgiveness on farm loans following droughts, with a significant impact on
BNA operations. The project addressed these risks by supporting the GoT's decision to make the Fonds
National de Garantie (FNG or National Guaranty Fund) operational for drought management, in order to
provide a more efficient alternative to the GoT's political decisions to forgive repayment on loans after
droughts. The SAR recognized, however, that even with a fully operational drought risk scheme, new
droughts could undermine the repayment performance of BNA's clients. The report stated that the project
was taking measures to help BNA in recovery and in buffering the negative financial impact of drought,
and furthermore, "[t]he GOT realizes that it is essential to develop a sustainable rural credit system, one of
its important development objectives." The major risk within BNA's control was the poor repayment
discipline of its rural borrowers. To mitigate this risk, BNA was restructuring its rural operations by: (i)
grouping low income borrowers to improve their creditworthiness; (ii) tightening eligibility criteria for
loans; (iii) linking savings and past repayment record to new loans; and (iv) strengthening rural outreach
(SAR, p. 30). At the time of appraisal, IBRD funds were not expected to be at more than normal risk,
provided that the Government was committed to further improving its ability to manage droughts. Positive
developments such as new BNA management, improved credit policies and client selection, and the
adoption of enhanced prudential banking regulations for loan classification, loan loss provisions, and
capital adequacy were also seen as important factors for minimizing risk (SAR, p. i).
The GoT's decisions regarding agricultural borrowers have had a cumulative effect on repayment
discipline, apparently creating an expectation among some borrowers that loans from BNA will eventually
be forgiven. The major clean-up of BNA's loan portfolio and significant improvement in loan recovery
foreseen under this project would have required a strong commitment from the Government, accompanied
by a detailed action plan, to disengage from direct intervention in rescheduling or forgiving agricultural
loans. At the very least, prior to project implementation, BNA and the GoT should have formulated
strategic alternatives to the successive rescheduling of agricultural loans in the case of severe droughts.
Such a measure was listed as a trigger for upgrade in March 1999.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
In October 1999, the loan and guarantee agreements were amended to: (i) extend the project
closing date from September 1999 to December 2000, (ii) allow for a higher percentage of sub-loan costs
to be disbursed under the loan, and (iii) substitute the feasibility study of group lending at the village level
with the planned GoT study on financing small farmers. At the time of this extension, the Bank recognized
that although BNA had achieved significant improvements in its capitalization and profitability, it had been
unable to implement its original action plan for improving loan portfolio quality. In addition to the
continued problems of drought and repeated governmental decisions to reschedule or forgive farmers' debt,
it was apparent that due to limitations of its existing management information system (MIS), BNA was
unable to measure accurately the loan portfolio quality indicators defined in the project's action plan.
Specifically, BNA's three loan departments (agricultural, commercial and industrial, and litigation) had
separate monitoring systems and different definitions and methods for calculating past-due and repayment
ratios, making it extremely difficult to evaluate the loan portfolio for the bank as a whole. In addition,
BNA was not able to compare the performance of loans granted since 1994 to the perforrnance of loans
granted prior to that date, as specified in the action plan. To resolve these problems, the World Bank and
Kreditanstaltfuir Wiederaujbau (Kf1W) worked with BNA to develop clear definitions for loan portfolio
quality indicators which would be useful both to BNA and to its lenders, and which BNA would be able to
calculate for the entire loan portfolio using its current MIS. BNA began calculating these ratios on a
quarterly basis as of September 30, 1999; the ratios for December 31, 1999 were to be the base-line
comparators for new objectives for improving loan portfolio quality. During the joint Bank-KfW
supervision mnission in June 2000, the new objectives were set, thus completing BNA's new action plan.
Although defining new loan portfolio quality indicators and objectives was extremely important to
BNA's institutional development, at that point in the project cycle, there should also have been a formal
reassessment and restatement of all the project's objectives, time-frame, and performance targets. This
would have provided a realistic framework for implementation of other elements of the action plan besides
loan portfolio quality (i.e., decentralization of operations and authority towards the regional offices,
multilevel strategic planning process, MIS, accounting and expansion of computerization, training and
intemational activities).
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components which were clearly linked to the project objectives described
above. Part A was BNA's Credit Program, supported by the Bank loan in the amount of US$64.5 million
to provide sub-loans in six major categories: agricultural development enterprises; small, medium, and
large fanners; fishermen; cooperatives and medium-sized enterprises; rural housing; and rural artisans and
women. The SAR estimated that the total number of beneficiaries for the project as a whole, including
funds from IBRD, co-financiers, the GoT, and sub-borrowers (total project cost was estimated at US$420
million), would be more than 29,000. At loan closing, information was available only on the number of
beneficiaries of IBRD funds, so it was not possible to compare appraisal estimates to end of project results.
Part B of the project was for BNA's Institutional Development, supporting a program to strengthen BNA's
financial viability and organizational structure, improve its management effectiveness through enhanced
management tools, and facilitate the effective decentralization of its operations, including provision of
training, data processing equipment and MIS. Part B was supported by US$500,000 of the IBRD credit
line, to be used for computer goods and services, consultants' services, and training. Part C was for
Informal Rural Finance and Group Lending Schemes; no loan funds were allocated to this project
component. The GoT, as guarantor, was to develop and carry out a feasibility study on group lending at
the village level, covering two parts: (i) informal rural markets and the operation of group lending to better
understand its riskiness, terms, conditions and recovery; and (ii) the legal and regulatory institutional
- 3 -



framework to understand how best to promote mutual guarantee credit groups and credit unions at the
village level. Based on study recommendations, pilot implementation would start by November 1, 1996.
The project had two co-financiers: KfW of Germany contributed US$25 million equivalent, and
the Agence Fran9aise de D6veloppement (AFD, formerly known as Caisse Frangaise de DeveZoppement
or CFD) provided a line of credit for US$35 million equivalent. The AFD funds were tied to the purchase
of equipment or other goods from France. In addition, the African Development Bank (AfDB) was
providing BNA with a line of credit which was to be used to fund sub-loans in conjunction with IBRD
funds.
3.4 Revised Components:
Each of the seven Part A categories had a specific loan amount allocated to it; during the life of the
project, there were two reallocations of funds among sub-loan categories (see Table 1 below). The
sub-categories that received the largest proportion of funds under the original loan allocation were:
Cooperatives and Medium-Size Enterprises (29%), Agricultural Development Enterprises (23%), Large
Farmers (23%), and Small and Medium Farmers (16%).
The loan funds were reallocated among sub-categories in April 1998, following a request from the
Borrower. Funds available under Category A. I (Agriculture Development Enterprises) were fully
committed, and demand in that area was judged to be strong. On the other hand, demand under Category
A.4 (Cooperatives and Medium-Sized Enterprises) was weak, attributed to the reduced role of cooperatives
following efforts to privatize land and subsiding demand for equipment in this category of borrower, given
an existing park of facilities. In addition, Category A.6 (Artisans and Rural Women) was eliminated
because there had been no disbursements, and none were expected, given the availability of other funds in
Tunisia for such projects. After this reallocation, three components (Agricultural Development
Enterprises, Small and Medium Farmers, and Large Farmers) were to receive more than 88% of the total
loan. Although this reallocation was approved in a routine manner by the Bank, the redirection of US$17
million (26% of the loan funds) away from small and medium clients and towards large agro-industry
(Category A. 1) should have raised flags regarding the status of the project's rural development objectives.
The second reallocation, formally requested by BNA in February 2001, was accompanied by a
cancellation of US$ 10 million of the loan funds. The cancellation request was a condition of the second
extension of the loan closing date; BNA was informed that the Bank would not extend the final closing date
beyond June 30, 2001 (BNA had requested an extension to December 31, 2001), and was asked to request
a cancellation for the amount which BNA did not expect to be able to disburse by June. Along with the
US$10 million cancellation, the major reallocations among sub-categories were: A. I (Agricultural
Development Enterprises) reduced by US$9 million, A.2.b. (Large Farmers) was reduced by US$1.5
million, while A.2.a. (Small and Medium Farmers) increased by US$2.4 million. As explained in the
Bank's intemal cancellation memo, this time the requested cancellations and reallocations were more
supportive of the project's rural development objectives, reinforcing the small and mediumn farmer category
with additional funds.
Following the project closing on June 30, 2001, the undisbursed loan balance of about US$7.6
million was cancelled. A total of almost US$47.4 million was disbursed during the almost six years from
project effectiveness to closing. Given that this was only 72.9% of the original US$65 million total loan,
which had been projected to disburse in about four years, it appears that the initial project estimates were
ambitious, perhaps not fully taking into account the fact that co-financiers' funds were less expensive and
thus likely to be used first. In addition, the allocation of the loan funds over a large number of sub-loan
categories created an unnecessary administrative burden, requiring two formal loan reallocations as well as
- 4 -



occasional approvals by the task team leader for small "overdrafts" in one sub-category or another. In
retrospect, rather than imposing these somewhat arbitrary sub-category allocations at project inception, it
would have been more efficient simply to list eligible sub-project activities and to stipulate a limit (by
percentage or amount of loan funds) which no single sub-project category, as defined, could exceed.
Table 1. Loan Allocations
2001 Reallocation &
Ori2inal Cor  onents                  1998 Reallocation     Partial Cancellation
Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total  Amount   % of Total
(US$)      Loan       (US$)      Loan       (US$)        Loan
Sub-Categores
A.1. Agriculture             15,000,000    23.08%  32,000,000    49.24%  22,950,000      35.31%
Development Enterprises
A.2. a. Small & Medium       10,500,000    16.15%  10,500,000    16.15%  12,900,000      19.84%
Farmers
b. Large Farmers        15,000,000    23.08%  15,000,000    23.08%  13,500,000       20.77%
A.3. Fishing                 3,000,000      4.61%   3,000,000     4.61%   3,600,000       5.54%
A.4. Co-ops& Medium          19,000,000    29.23%   3,000,000     4.61%   1,500,000       2.31%
Enterprises                            _
A.5. Rural Housing            1,000,000     1.54%   1,000,000     1.54%     50,000*       0.08%
A.6. Artisans & Rural Women    1,000,000    1.54%          0      0.00%           0       0.00%
B.1. Goods & Comnputer         300,000      0.46%    300,000      0.46%     300,000       0.46%
Services                               _
B.2. Training &Consultants     200,000      0.31%    200,000      0.31%     200,000       0.31%
TOTAL              65,000,000   100.00%  65,000,000   100.00%  55,000,000      84.62%
Cancellation                _         l          l                        10,000,000     15.38%
*Including foreign exchange difference in Special Account.
In 1999, the cofinancing from AFD was cancelled due to lack of demand. BNA stated that it was
difficult to use the AFD funds because they were tied to French producers.
As described above, the Action Plan for Part B of the loan (BNA's institutional development) was
revised in October 1999.
Under Part C, the GoT, as Guarantor, was to carry out a study to assess the feasibility of group
lending at the village level, including its risks, terms, conditions and debt recovery, and to define, on the
basis thereof, an institutional framework suitable to promote mutual guarantee credit groups and credit
unions at the village level. No loan funds were allocated to Part C of the project, which became
problematic inasmuch as the GoT was reluctant to carry out this study without external funding. At the
time of the closing date extension in fall 1999, the GoT had decided to conduct a study on small farners
and their means of financing. The Bank reviewed the study's terms of reference (TOR) and accepted this
study as a substitute for the study required under Part C of the project Loan and Guarantee Agreements.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No formal quality at entry review was performed on the project because QAG did not yet exist,
but the overall quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory in this Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
-5-



Although the overall project objectives were relevant and appropriate, the project design did not include
adequate measures to ensure that all elements of the action plan and other project components could be
fully implemented. For example, there was no clear commitment from the GoT that BNA would be
allowed to make its own rescheduling decisions, and for the first several years of the project, BNA did not
have the systems to allow it to calculate some of the loan portfolio quality indicators specified in the action
plan (distinguishing between loans granted before and after 1994). The disbursement schedule does not
seem to have fully taken into account the effect of co-financing and was overly ambitious. Furthermore,
some aspects of BNA's institutional action plan, especially those related to improving loan portfolio
quality, were unrealistic and not achievable within the timeframe of this project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory due to failure to achieve its ambitious
development objectives. However, it is important to note that although the objectives were not fully
achieved, progress was made: the project has contributed both to private investment in rural areas and to
BNA's institutional development. Under Part A of the project, over 800 sub-loans were granted, including
a significant proportion to small and medium farners. BNA's financial viability has been substantially
strengthened under Part B of the project, with most targets for capitalization and profitability being
exceeded, and some progress made in the bank's reorganization and implementation of the new MIS.
Finally, the government has carried out a study on the finances of small farmers, and when finalized, this
study should be useful in determining future agricultural policy. There were, however, significant
weaknesses in project implementation. As noted above, the Action Plan set at project inception was overly
ambitious, but even allowing for that, progress in implementing certain objectives was slow. Despite some
improvements during the life of the project, BNA's loan portfolio quality remains weak, with below-average
repayment on IBRD sub-loans. Due to management changes and various delays, the program to strengthen
BNA's organizational structure, improve its management effectiveness through enhanced management
tools, and facilitate the effective decentralization of its operations, including provision of training, data
processing equipment and management information systems, was only partially completed. Finally, the
Bank has not received the report for Phase II of the GoT's study and recommendations on small farmer
financing needs, and BNA's proposed pilot program for financing small farmers through the intermediary
of agricultural service cooperatives has not yet been launched. Given the importance of Part A in the
project as a whole (99.2 percent of loan funds were dedicated to the credit component), the poor
performance of sub-loans was the major determinant in the overall unsatisfactory rating of the project
outcome.
BNA disagrees with this rating. They believe that the objectives of the project, as described in the
SAR, have been achieved overall, taking into account the revised project components.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A: BNA's Credit Program
As shown in Table 2, over 800 sub-projects were financed under this loan. Agro-industries
received the largest portion of funds, followed by small and medium farmers and large farmers. During the
first few years of the project, most disbursements went to agro-industry, but towards the end of the project,
BNA was able to increase the pace of disbursements to small and medium farmers. Unfortunately, the
overall performance of these sub-loans has been poor.
Loan disbursements had a slow start. At the time of the original closing date in September 1999,
only half of the loan had been disbursed, lagging behind very ambitious appraisal estimates. BNA
- 6 -



explained that disbursements had lagged partly because of the limitations on cofmiancing percentages from
IBRD (withdrawal applications were originally limited to 50-60% of the amount financed by BNA, which
was usually about 70% of the total subproject cost). BNA requested an increase in this percentage to
100% of the subloan amount and projected that it would then need until December 2001 to disburse the full
loan amount. The Bank increased the cofinancing percentage to 100% for certain categories of sub-loans
and to 75% for others, to ensure that Bank funds would not finance more than 70% of a sub-project cost,
with the remaining amount to be financed by the sub-borrower's own funds. However, the Bank limited the
closing date extension to 15 months (December 31, 2000), with the possibility of a second extension, in
order to monitor BNA's progress in implementing the revised Action Plan with new loan portfolio quality
indicators. At the end of the first extension in December 2000, disbursements still lagged behind estimates
(64% of total loan disbursed), partly due to the rising value of the U.S. dollar. In September 1999, the
average exchange rate was 1.196 TD/US$, but by December 1999 it had increased to 1.429 TD/US$,
meaning that BNA needed to withdraw less of the U.S. dollar-denominated IBRD loan to cover its
dinar-denominated subloans. However, the rate of disbursement of World Bank funds was expected to
increase in 2001 because BNA had fully disbursed its lines of credit from AfDB and KfW, leaving the
Bank loan as the primary source of term financing. In recognition of BNA's progress (albeit slow) in
institutional development and rural development, and in order to prevent a financing crisis for BNA, a
second extension of six months was granted, allowing the Bank to continue to support the Borrower in
implementing important reforms such as the new MIS and the pilot program for financing small farmers
through cooperatives. The Bank was unwilling to grant the full 12-month extension requested by BNA due
to constraints in the World Bank supervision budget and due to BNA's repeated delays in implementing
some parts of the project. At the end of the project, 72.9% of the original loan amount was disbursed
(86.1% of the reduced loan, after the cancellation of US$10 million).
According to comments received from BNA, the bank tried to adapt the sub-category allocations to
client demand, taking into account the new directions of economic activity in Tunisia (private sector
incentives, financing small and medium enterprises, promoting upgrading projects, etc.).
Table 2. Loan Disbursements
*Amount   Amount    Amount
Sub-Categories        Allocated   Disbursed   Disbursed  ANumber of % of Number
(in US$)    (in US$)    as % of   Sub-Loans   of Sub-Loans
Total Loan                Financed
A. 1. Agriculture Development    22,950,000 18,666,316.56  28.70/c        59          7.1%
Enterprises
A.2. a. Small& Medium         12,900,000 12,529,085.28    19.30/         318         38.5%
Farners
b. Large Farmers         13,500,000 11,694,554.21    18.00/         344         41.7%
A.3. Fishing                   3,600,000 3,030,145.34      4.7/           89          10.8%
A.4. Co-ops& Medium            1,500,000 1,316,421.20      2.00/          15           1.8%
Enterprises
A.5. Rural Housing              50,000+   18,152.73+       0.00/           I          0.1%
A.6. Artisans & Rural Women           0            0       0.00/           C          0.0%
B.1. Goods & Computer           300,000    48,970.51       0.1°/        N/A            N/A
Services
B.2. Training & Consultants     200,00     63,067.61       0.1/         N/A            N/A
TOTAL              55,000,00 47,366,713.44     72.9%          82        100.00%
Cancellation                  10,000,00 17,633,286.56     27. 10/_                  _
*Based on final allocation of sub-categories in 2001.
+Including Special Account conversion amount of US$3,339.44.
AFrom BNA's contribution to the ICR.         -7-



During the October 2000 supervision mission, a Rural Development Expert found that this project
did have the following positive outcomes for rural development in Tunisia:
(a) Land utilization and management of water resources. The development of irrigation systems and
the intensive promotion of fruit trees reinforced the government's strategy for water resource management.
Project results included: (i) financing of irrigation equipment and the construction of irrigation basins
supporting water and energy savings and reduction of production costs; (ii) better integration of livestock in
the agriculture sector while making it more profitable and less dependent on pastures; and (iii) intensive
introduction of fruit-bearing trees. With the development of irrigation systems and orchards, the project
made it possible to compensate for the sub-projects' small size and increase their value in areas with low
rainfall.
(b) Livestock. Several regions benefited from increased dairy cattle and sheep breeding systems. The
actions undertaken were consistent with the national strategy to guarantee self-sufficiency in meat and milk.
(c) Fishing and aquaculture. In coastal zones, the fishing industry was given priority, supporting the
government's effort to comply with international standards and support the exportation of fish and seafood.
(d) Equipment and infrastructure. Most investments in this category were made at the beginning of the
project to improve the capacity of farmers and fanning techniques, facilitate the mobility of farmers and
their access to the various services, and improve their capacity to supervise their projects.
However, sub-loan repayment was a significant weakness of this project component. During the
life of the project, the sub-loan repayment rate varied between 26% and 48%, and as of project closing in
June 2001, the repayment rate for loans financed under the project was only 39%. BNA generally
attributes the low repayment rates to start-up problems on sub-projects: many of the sub-projects financed
under the IBRD loan are just beginning to operate and had relatively short grace periods, leading to early
repayment problems which BNA expected to be resolved as the sub-projects moved into full operation.
Given that BNA's overall repayment rate is almost twice as high as the IBRD sub-loan repayment rate
(74% compared to 39%), this explanation seems credible, although it may also indicate an inherent problem
with the types of sub-projects targeted under the World Bank project. Nevertheless, with less than half of
sub-loan borrowers repaying as initially scheduled, it seems clear that there are still weaknesses in BNA's
policies regarding loan selection, structuring, and/or collection. The Rural Development Expert reported
that several factors, including successive rescheduling due to droughts, excessive debt loads, and lax
repayment standards, influenced the behavior of creditors, some of whom may associate BNA's loans with
government subsidies. In several of the instances observed in the Expert's sample, problem sub-loans were
connected with sub-project failure, the main causes of failure being technical problems, difficulty in getting
assistance, and a lack of knowledge regarding the sources of supply and promotion of agricultural
products. These factors worked together to create a vicious cycle for BNA's borrowers, as they became
over-indebted, unprofitable, and unable to make new investments in their operations.
This component did partially achieve its development objective of promoting viable private
investments in rural areas, notably by supporting improved land utilization and water resource
management, livestock production, fishing and aquaculture, and equipment and infrastructure investments.
Despite these achievements, however, given the weak overall repayment performance of the sub-loans, this
component is rated unsatisfactory.
-8 -



Part B: Institutional Development
Part B of the project supported a program to strengthen BNA's financial viability and
organizational structure, improve its management effectiveness through enhanced management tools, and
facilitate the effective decentralization of its operations, including provision of training, data processing
equipment and MIS. This component was supported by US$500,000 of the IBRD credit line, to be used
for computer goods and services, consultants' services, and training. As shown in Table 2 above, only
US$111,000 of this amount was disbursed; the funds were used for computer goods and consultant
services, and BNA used altemative funds (self-financed or co-financiers) for most of its activities under
this area.
Financial Viability
One of the principal successes of this project is the strengthening of BNA's financial position.
During the life of the project, the bank's capitalization and profitability have improved significantly,
exceeding targets set in the Loan Agreement (see Annex 1). BNA also commented on its significant
progress: as of December 31, 2001, the capital adequacy ratio was 11.44% and the net bank
intermediation margin was 2.4%. Risk concentrations have also improved. However, despite
improvements in its overall financial condition, BNA failed to meet the original Action Plan agreements
related to improving loan portfolio quality, and in June 1999, the project was rated unsatisfactory for both
development objectives and implementation progress. A major factor in this rating was BNA's continued
high level of arrears and its inability to measure accurately its progress in implementing the Action Plan
objectives using its existing MIS. The Bank agreed with the Borrower to define new loan portfolio quality
indicators, which BNA would be able to calculate on a consistent basis for its entire loan portfolio, and to
use these indicators to set new, realistic objectives for improving portfolio quality. This new Action Plan
was the basis for the Bank's first extension of the loan closing date, from September 30, 1999, to December
31, 2000.
At the final project closing date of June 30, 2001, BNA met all the new loan portfolio quality
objectives, with the exception of portfolio at risk for agricultural loans, which increased slightly following
the 2000 drought (see Table 3). BNA's total past-due loans (non-budgetary loans or Risque BNA)
decreased from 33.2 percent of total loans on December 31, 1997 to 22.9 percent of total loans on
December 31, 2000. Although overall loan portfolio quality remains weak and will require continued,
concentrated efforts for improvement, this decrease represents a significant improvement, and BNA has
increased its collection efforts. The bank has recourse to compensation from the National Guaranty Fund (
Fonds National de Garantie or FNG) for a percentage of some uncollectible agricultural loans, as well as
for interest on loans which the government has required to be rescheduled following drought. (Annex 9
shows a table, in French, provided by BNA explaining the FNG compensation system.) In addition, it
should be noted that a certain amount of the older past-due loans are provisioned and are considered
completely uncollectible, but in accordance with Tunisian regulations and accounting practices, have
remained on the balance sheet. As Tunisian laws related to loan write-offs are relaxed (one such measure
is a Board condition for the Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan, Project 55815), some of
these loans will be written off, thereby reducing the past-due ratios and Portfolio at Risk, while increasing
BNA's loan recovery ratios.
-9-



Table 3. BNA's Loan Portfolio Ouality Indicators & Obiectives
12/31/99          12/31M00         630/01
Actual (Base)   Objective  Actual   Actual(+)
Past-dues < 360 days (non-budgetary loans)             5.9 /o       <5%o    4.90/o      4.8%0/
Objective: Equal to or less than 5%
Past-dues> 360 days (non-budgetary loans)             24.4%     <22.4%*   19.6%        18.0%
Objective: *Minimun reduction of2 percentage points peryear, with an average minimun reduction of2.5 percentage points peryearvover 5years
Portfolio at Risk (Overall)                           39.5%    <365%**   34.4%0o       31.7%
Portfolio at Risk (Comn rcdal& Industrial Loans)    27.1% /    <271%**   19.4%0o     19.3%
PortfolioatRisk(AgriculturalLoans)                  66.9%    <66.9°/**   67.3%       61.7%
Objective: "*Minimum reduction of3 percentage points peryear overall, with an average minimum reduction of 3.5 percentage points peryear over 5years:
so long as the PARfor both Commercial & Industrial Loans andAgricultural Loans is less than or equal to the prioryear's
+ Objectives were on l setfor year-end (12/3 1) figures; mid-year data is merely infornationaL
Organizational Structure and Management Tools
BNA's original Action Plan under this project included the implementation of a new strategic
management structure ("schema directeur strategique") with a comprehensive MIS and a new chart of
accounts, as well as a more decentralized organizational plan, and extensive staff training. There were
significant delays in the implementation of many of these actions, although most were at least partially
completed during the life of the project. According to the latest report received from BNA, from 1999 to
2001, the following actions were taken to begin implementing the new schema directeur: technical
specifications for the commitment system and the platform for the new information system have been
designed; the accounting system has been defined in accordance with the new national chart of accounts;
and administrative systems for electronic transfers have been put in place. In addition, BNA has selected a
consulting firm to assist with the studies and the preparation of the specifications for the new MIS.
Although the delays in putting in place the new MIS are partially attributable to management changes
during the life of the project, as well as to careful preparation and BNA's desire to implement a
state-of-the-art system (allowing on-line banking, etc.), implementation was substantially behind schedule
at the project closing date.
BNA did take some actions to decentralize its organizational structure and modemize its branches.
New technologies and automated teller machines (ATMs) have been introduced in the branch network, and
branches are being brought on-line, allowing better monitoring of the bank's overall financial situation on a
timely basis. Branch agents are also being trained to multitask to offer better client service. BNA has
made a concentrated effort in the area of training, with over 2,000 staff members receiving training in the
year 2000 and total training expenditures of over 1.3 million TD. Training topics included cash flow
management, accounting, management, litigation, information systems, finance, auditing, marketing, taxes,
human resource management, and foreign trade.
Despite delays in the implementation of the new MIS and other elements of the organizational
Action Plan, the institutional development component of this project is rated satisfactory, due to the overall
improvement in BNA's financial condition during the life of the project. It is recognized that BNA's loan
portfolio quality remains weak and subject to the problems of drought and GoT agricultural policy
decisions, but there have been noticeable reductions in the levels of non-performing loans in recent years.
- 10-



Part C: Informal Rural Finance and Group Lending Scheme
The objective of the third component of this loan was to expand credit and savings in rural areas by
developing microfinance in Tunisia's rural sector through a pilot group lending scheme at village level as a
first step. Because the GoT did not wish to borrow to finance this study, the Bank loan did not include any
financing for this component, and the GoT sought grant financing. Funding remained an unresolved issue
until May 1999, when under the auspices of a Presidential Decree concerning small farmer financing, the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) developed TOR for a study. After review of the TOR, the Bank accepted
this study as a substitute for that which was required under the project. The Government has completed the
first phase of the study on the financing of small farmers, and the Bank has reviewed that report and found
it satisfactory. However, the Bank has not received a copy of the report on Phase II of the study,
reconmmending solutions to small farmers financing needs.
In another action which is related to the objectives of Part C of the project, BNA has proposed a
pilot program to provide financing: (i) to agricultural service cooperatives (at a preferential interest rate)
which would then on-lend to their small farmer-clients, and (ii) directly to members of agricultural service
cooperatives. The design of this pilot program is based on the results of a study carried out by the
consulting firm HORUS, with the support of KfW, with the objective of finding ways to ensure financing
for small borrowers without increasing the repayment risk to BNA. The launching of this pilot program
was delayed and is now tentatively scheduled to take place during December 2001.
The outcome of this project component is rated as unsatisfactory. The Bank has not received
evidence that the study was completed during the life of the project, and the related pilot program for group
lending has been delayed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
For financial intermediation loans, no net present value or economic rate of return is calculated for
the project as a whole. Subloan eligibility criteria specified that a subproject must be made to a
sub-borrower which, is: (i) determined to be technically feasible and commercially, economically and
fnancially viable; (ii) calculated to yield a suitable financial rate of return; and (iii) designed in accordance
with appropriate safety, health and environment guidelines satisfactory to the Bank. Compliance with this
criterion was reviewed and confirmed for all subloan applications which exceeded the US$1 million free
limit.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
See preceding paragraph. For financial intermediation loans, no financial rate of return is
calculated for the project as a whole.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As described above under the outcome for Part B, despite certain weaknesses, the project has
improved BNA's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. BNA has achieved
good financial performance in recent years, indicating pertinent strategic choices. The 2000 audit report
reveals that BNA has been able to manage several types of risk adequately owing to an effective structure
and internal controls. The project's institutional development impact is therefore rated as substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
- 1 1 -



Drought has been the single most important factor affecting BNA's efforts to improve its loan
portfolio quality, and this factor is obviously outside the control of either the GoT or BNA. Droughts were
declared in at least some regions of Tunisia in six of the seven crop years included in the project's
implementation. Successive droughts have made it difficult or impossible for many of BNA's agricultural
borrowers to repay their debts, in turn making it difficult for BNA to meet some of the project's
institutional development objectives.
The GoT sometimes made unilateral decisions to support agricultural borrowers, and BNA was
required to enact these decisions. The decisions were outside of BNA's control as implementing agency and
were sometimes detrimental to its long-term financial stability. An example was the Government's 1999
decision to forgive the debt of all farmers' with loans up to 2,000 TD and to allow the restructuring of all
loans between 2,000 and 40,000 TD. The GoT took over this debt, agreeing to reimburse the affected
banks over a period of 20 years at zero percent interest. The vast majority of the farmers affected by this
decision were clients of BNA. Some, and perhaps even a large majority of the forgiven loans were
probably uncollectible, so the short-term financial impact of this decision may have been neutral (with the
loss of interest and short-term repayment on good loans being cancelled out by the reimbursement of loans
that were otherwise losses), but the impact on the repayment discipline of BNA's clients was very negative.
Because the decision was made unilaterally and debts were forgiven based on loan amounts rather than on
borrowers' repayment capacity, many financially viable borrowers had their debt cancelled, receiving the
message that loans from BNA can sometimes turn into Government grants. This type of message creates a
disincentive for borrowers to repay on time and further hampers BNA's efforts to improve its overall loan
portfolio quality.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Governmental decisions to reschedule or forgive farmers' debt, as described above, were probably
detrimental to BNA's repayment rate and were directly subject to GoT's control. Given the importance of
agriculture in the Tunisian economy, the GoT's desire to assist farmers facing financial difficulties due to
successive droughts or other problems is very understandable. However, it is important to recognize that
using debt forgiveness and rescheduling as the instruments to provide such assistance negatively affected
the outcome of this project.
The GoT also had control over the study of Part C of the project, the study on informal rural
finance and group lending. This study was delayed for several years because the GoT could not find grant
financing to fund the study. Eventually the GoT, of its own accord, commissioned a different but related
study, which the Bank accepted as a substitute. The final report on the alternate study has not been
received.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
BNA management lacked the tools to measure progress in implementing certain elements of the
original Action Plan. Many of the Action Plan objectives drew a distinction between loans granted before
and after 1994, when BNA's lending policies were changed and it was hoped that the loan portfolio would
become much sounder. However, BNA was unable to track loan portfolio quality based on the year that a
loan was granted and was therefore unable to show whether or not these objectives were being met.
Appropriate tools for analyzing loan quality based on the year the loan was granted should have been put in
place at the beginning of the project. Instead, in September 1999, a technical mission from the Bank
brought together all the concerned members of BNA management (agricultural credit department,
commercial and industrial credit department, loan collections, management accounting, MIS, etc.) to work
together to define meaningful loan portfolio quality ratios which could be calculated using BNA's existing
systems.
- 12 -



BNA has also controlled the implementation of the new MIS and schema directeur, as well as the
pilot program for financing small farmers through cooperatives; all these actions have been subject to
significant delays during the life of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
According to BNA, one reason for slow disbursements early in the project life was the availability
of less expensive resources from KfW and AfDB. Once those alternative resources were used,
disbursements of IBRD funds increased. In the Borrower's contribution to the ICR (Annex 9), BNA states
that the cost of IBRD funds has been roughly equivalent to the Tunisian money market rate for local funds
(MMR) plus 50 basis points, and that having access to stable, term financing at this rate has been
important for the bank. The Loan Agreement specified that IBRD funds would be used for investment
projects having a maturity or of five to 15 years, with interest rates and other terms and conditions being
determined by the Borrower's policies and practices. The foreign exchange risk was covered through the
FNG.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability, with an emphasis on the rural development objectives of the loan (Part A), is
rated as unlikely. The weak repayment performance of sub-loans, along with the technical failures
observed in the implementation of some sub-projects, call into question the sustainability of rural
investments made under this project. However, the sustainability institutional development objectives (Part
B) seems more probable. BNA's overall financial condition has improved during the life of the project.
Crucial portions of institutional reform, including the development of a new management structure (schema
directeur) and technical specifications for the new MIS have been carried out, and the implementation
delays related to these actions may have allowed BNA to build internal support for these changes,
contributing to their long-term sustainability. In addition, BNA has made some progress, albeit limited, in
improving the overall quality of its loan portfolio, which is essential for the bank's viability.
An important factor affecting the sustainability of the project is the recurrence of drought, and the
Government's rural finance strategy. Although the problem of drought itself can not be resolved, by
finding better ways to mitigate drought risk (improved insurance or hedging instruments, better agricultural
drought management techniques, etc.), the sustainability of rural development and of BNA could be
reinforced. The completion of Phase II of the GoT's study on financing small farmers should help in the
development of a more coherent long-term strategy for the Government's rural finance policy and BNA's
role therein.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities related to the financial viability of BNA were already integrated into
the bank's regular operations, which has minimized the need for special transition arrangements. In the
short-term, however, the project's achievements and sustainability will be strengthened if BNA continues to
improve its financial performance and devotes more attention to loan portfolio management. Sub-loan
performance indicates that there are still weaknesses in BNA's policies regarding loan selection,
structuring, and/or collection. BNA is one of several Tunisian banks which is receiving technical
assistance from KfW in the areas of credit analysis and credit risk management, as a complement to KfW's
industry upgrade (mise a niveau) project in Tunisia. The loan portfolio quality ratio objectives defined in
- 13-



the new Action Plan will continue to be monitored under KfW's project. In BNA's contribution to the ICR
(Annex 9), BNA states that it plans to put in place a system to assess the impact on the economy of
subprojects financed under extemal loans.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Banlk
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's intervention was useful in promoting rural finance in Tunisia. However, the project
objectives were unrealistic, based on ambitious projections for disbursement and for the progress to be
made by BNA. The project design did not include adequate measures to ensure that all elements of the
action plan and other project components could be fully implemented. For example, there was no clear
commitment from the GoT that BNA would be allowed to make its own rescheduling decisions, and for the
first several years of the project, BNA was not able to calculate some of the loan portfolio quality
indicators (distinguishing between loans granted before and after 1994) specified in the action plan. In
addition, the Bank did not include the cost of the Part C study in the total project cost estimates (under GoT
financing contribution, for example). For these reasons, Bank's performance in lending preparation is rated
unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
With regards to supervision, Bank performance has fluctuated from unsatisfactory up to March
1999 to satisfactory since that time. The first supervision mission took place in November 1995, shortly
after loan effectiveness, but the next mission was not until 19 months later, in June 1997. While the
achievement of project objectives was rated satisfactory in the project status reports (PSRs) during the first
four years of implementation, this ICR would characterize project performance as unsatisfactory during
that period. Supervision reports were also somewhat superficial for the first few years of project
implementation. For example, with regard to the MIS system, the supervision report dated November 1 1,
1998, stated that "BNA has continued to overhaul its information systems, based on the recently completed
information systems master plan" but did not mention that the MIS implementation was behind schedule.
The achievement of development objectives was also rated satisfactory for too long, and the mid-term
review in November 1998 was not effective in rationalizing the scope of the project.
In March 1999, the PSR rated the project as being "at risk" for the first time because of delays in
implementation and mentions "the past history of the project in which the Bank constantly gave a rosy
picture." The task team then set a trigger for upgrading the project: BNA, along with the GoT, was to
formulate an action plan on the decrease of successive rescheduling of agricultural loans. Such an action
plan was never created, and the focus of supervision instead turned to actions which BNA could take to
assess its loan portfolio quality and measure its improvement in the future.
From September 1999 to the end of the project, Bank supervision was more active and
interventionist, which was justifiable in light of the lack of progress in key areas such as loan portfolio
quality. The improvement of loan portfolio quality became a major focus of supervision missions from
1999 until project closing. In September 1999, the Action Plan was revised to define the indicators that
BNA would use to measure the quality of its loan portfolio and to establish new and realistic targets to
decrease the absolute and relative levels of arrears. Ideally, this revision would have been done one year
earlier, at the time of the project's mid-term review. During missions following September 1999, the
revised portion Action Plan was the main focus of supervision, and progress on other elements of the
previous Action Plan, such as training, decentralization of activities, and delegation of responsibility to
BNA's branches, was not monitored as closely. This was a weakness of on-going supervision; the project
would have benefited from a complete review of the Action Plan in September 1999 and a redefinition of
priorities and targets.
- 14 -



It should be noted that the project had four different task managers during its six-year
implementation, although there was some continuity in the task team as a whole. The changes in project
management were accompanied by new priorities in supervision, which seemed to be somewhat difficult
from the Borrower's perspective but were probably beneficial to the final outcome of the project. BNA's
comments indicate that they found Bank supervision missions to be remarkably useful, providing assistance
and productive and on-going collaboration with BNA management. Although supervision was initially
rather weak, given the strengthening of supervision efforts in the last two years of project implementation,
overall Bank supervision performance is rated marginally satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory due to the above-mentioned flaws in project
design and appraisal, which were compounded by weak supervision early in the project's life.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As noted above, the project projections and Action Plan, which were prepared jointly by the Bank,
BNA, the GoT, and co-fnanciers, were overly optimistic and somewhat unrealistic in certain respects.
However, BNA did conduct a comprehensive self-analysis in order to prepare the Action Plan, setting many
appropriate objectives. Although the use of the FNG as a drought insurance mechanism did partially
address a systemic risk in agricultural financing in Tunisia, in the medium term, BNA was not able to
implement its Action Plan successfully without a firm commitment from the GoT to give BNA autonomy in
its loan portfolio management decisions. This issue had a significant impact on BNA's ability to implement
the project and should have been resolved during project preparation. Overall Borrower performance
during preparation is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GoT, as Guarantor of the project, was responsible for the implementation of Part C, rural
finance study and pilot program. After delays in implementing the study as originally conceived, the first
phase of a study on financing small farmers was satisfactorily completed. However, the Bank has not
received the report for Phase II of the study, providing recommendations for a future strategy. The
implementation performance of the GoT, acting as Guarantor, is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
BNA is both the Borrower and the principal implementing agency for this loan. From loan
effectiveness until early 1999, BNA made substantial progress in improving its capitalization and eamings
and reducing its provisioning shortfall. Although there were delays in disbursements and in implementing
some parts of the Action Plan, progress was being made, and BNA was rational in using lower-cost KfW
and AfDB loans before disbursing the more expensive IBRD funds. Loan portfolio quality improved very
slowly during the life of the project, but the most important factors affecting portfolio quality--drought and
GoT loan rescheduling decisions--were outside BNA's control. Borrower implementation performance is
therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Despite BNA's achievement of several important objectives of its institutional Action Plan, given
the weaknesses in project preparation, poor sub-loan performance, and the GoT's failure to complete the
Part C study, overall Borrower and Guarantor performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
- 15-



8. Lessons Learned
While the project shares common experiences with other similar operations, it does provide some
key lessons. In the history of Financial Intermediation Loans in the Bank, many have been partially or
totally cancelled because demand did not materialize. Flexibility is critical in the design of such projects,
and it is preferable not to place excessive restrictions on the types of clients and activities to which the
financial institution may lend. In the case of the Tunisia National Rural Finance Project, the up-front
allocation of loan funds to specific sub-project categories created an unnecessary administrative burden,
requiring two loan reallocations during the life of the project. In retrospect, it would have been preferable
to define a positive list of sub-project categories and specify that no single sub-project category could
receive more than, for example, 25 percent of the total loan proceeds.
An operation of this type, which aimed to support both rural development and the institutional
development of a specific bank, must ensure that there is a clear strategy in place to allow all objectives to
be met in a coherent manner. The World Bank should have deepened its policy discussions with the GoT
concerning ways to support farmers facing financial difficulty due to drought without taking action directly
through BNA's loan portfolio and thereby weakening borrowers' loan repayment discipline. For example,
the GoT could provide direct assistance to farmers affected by drought. When the Bank and BNA agreed
on an ambitious Action Plan to improve BNA's loan portfolio, the Bank should also have obtained a
commitment from the GoT that BNA would have autonomy in managing that portfolio.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency
Please see Annex 9 for BNA's complete description of and comments on this project. BNA had the
following specific comments on the Bank's performance during this project [translated from the French]:
"During the utilization of IBRD line of credit, we allow ourselves to signal certain problems, on
one hand on the level of:
*  The insufficiency of the percentage of the credit financing (50% instead of 100%, realizing that the
loan represents 70% of the cost of investment)
*   The extension of the disbursement deadline, which was difficult for IBRD to accept and was limited to
6/30/2001 and not 12/31/2001 as requested by BNA. In addition, this extension was done over two
periods as mentioned above.
On the other hand, at the level of the disbursement of funds, in fact the average delay for
disbursements was 28 days and more, citing two examples:
*   Withdrawal Application No. 30: This request took 8 months before disbursement (addressed 12/24/98
and disbursed 8/3/99).
*   Withdrawal Application No. 53: This request is not yet disbursed [as of August 2001] since
7/12/2001."
BNA disagrees with the unsatisfactory rating for the achievement of overall project objectives.
They believe that the objectives, as described in the SAR, have been achieved overall, taking into account
the revised project components. BNA's comments indicate that they found Bank supervision missions to be
remarkably useful, providing assistance and productive and on-going collaboration with BNA management.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments Received from KfW [paraphrased]:
KfW believes the project can not be rated satisfactory. They agree with the Bank's assessment as
- 16 -



far as the recent institutional development of BNA is concerned and feel that BNA is sincerely trying to
improve its overall loan portfolio quality. The figures of the last two years definitely show a positive trend.
However, the repayment rates of the agricultural portfolio remain highly unsatisfactory.
The specific assessment of component A should also be unsatisfactory. With repayment ratios
extremely low and the sub-projects very often being a technical and economic failure and therefore creating
a vicious cycle, there are serious doubts as to sustainability of the investments financed through the IBRD
and KfW credit facilities as well as to sustainability of the agricultural lending by BNA.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
None.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
BNA reaching capital adequacy exceeding   Exceeds Central Bank's (increased)   11.44% as of 12/31/01.
the Central Bank's requirement of 5%.  requirement of 8%.
BNA improving the matching of maturities of Not specifically discussed in PSR.  Savings and time deposits covered 105% of
its assets and liabilities.                                                    BNA's medium- and long-term loans as of
12/31/01.
Reduction of arrears amounts.          With the exception of agricultural Portfolio at From 12/31/97 to 12/31/00, total past-due
Risk, BNA met all 12/31/00 objectives set in  loans (Risque BNA) decreased from 33.2%
the new Action Plan for loan portfolio quality. of total loans to 22.9% of total loans.
Improvement of loan recovery rates (% of    Not discussed in PSR.              As of 6/30/01, BNA's current year recovery
annuities collected in same year and                                           rate was 92% for principal and 83% for
following years).                                                             interest. The overall recovery rate, including
current, past-due, and loans in litigation, was
46% for principal and 13% for interest.
BNA's intermediation margin to be 2% or    Not specifically discussed in PSR.  2.6% as of 12/31/99.
better.
Rate of retum (before tax) on equity reaching Not specifically discussed in PSR.  16.1% as of 12/31/99.
10%; (taking into account the delay granted
for absorbing the provisions shortfall)
Conception and implementation of BNA's    Not specifically discussed in PSR.   A strategic plan and budgeting systems are
strategic plan and of improved budgeting and                                  in place.
planning systems.
Preparation of an overall information systems "The majority of the studies and  The overall informabon systems master plan
master plan; detailed systems studies,  recommendabons [are] now complete, and   has been prepared, along with detailed
implementation of new computers and    improved desktop systems [have been]    systems studies. Technical specifications
integrated software systems.           purchased. The overhaul of the management have been prepared for the core of the new
information system is substantially behind    MIS, but the system has not yet been
schedule, but significant components of the  implemented. The specifications are now
new system are expected to be put in place  being submitted to govemment authonties for
this year, and the entire new system is  authorization to launch the bidding process.
expected to be completed in 2002."
Decentralization of activities and delegation of Not specifically discussed in PSR.  Certain authorities have been delegated to
responsibility to BNA's branches.                                              BNA's branches.
Study implemented; pilot scheme underway. Phase I of the study was completed, and  Phase II report has not been received by the
Phase II was expected to be completed soon. Bank. Pilot program for financing small
farmers through agricultural service
cooperatives is expected to be launched in
December 2001.
-18-



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                  ActualLatest Estimate
Number and sizes of private sector     85.7% of US$55M loan disbursed, with    86.1% of of US$55M loan disbursed (72.9%
investments in rural areas financed by BNA   agro-industry receiving 40% of disbursed    of original US$65M loan), with agro-industry
with funds from this loan, including for  amount, small & medium farmers receiving  receiving 39.4% of amount disbursed (59
investments by small and medium farmers,  26.5%, and large farmers receiving 24.6%.  sub-projects), small & medium farmers
fishermen, artisans and rural women, service                                   receiving 26.5% (318 sub-projects), large
cooperatives supporting small farmers, and                                     farmers receiving 24.7% (344 sub-projects),
rural housing.                                                                fishing receiving 6.4% (88 sub-projects),
co-ops and SMEs receiving 2.8% (15
sub-projects), plus 1 rural housing
sub-project.
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
This section is not generally applicable to financial intermediation loans. It is noted that the SAR did
provide a Project Financing Plan, showing the estimated investments by sub-borrowers, BNA, the GoT,
and all the co-financiers for each of the sub-project categories, but no information is available on the actual
investments at project closing, except for the use of IBRD funds as shown in Table 2 of the main text.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable to Financial Intermediation Loans.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
7/91                         4   Banking Specialist
Ag. Credit Specialist,
Crop Insurance Specialist, Rural
Fin. Specialist.
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/95                        5
Supervision
11/95                         4   Financial Analyst,                  S              S
Microenterprise Specialist,
Ag. Credit Specialist,
Banking Specialist
5/96                          4   Financial Analyst,                   S             S
Microenterprise Specialist, Ag.
Credit Specialist, Banking
Specialist
7/97                          2   Financial Analyst, FS Specialist     S             S
3/98                          3   Financial Analyst, 2 FS              S             S
Specialists
10/98                         3   Financial Analyst, FS Specialist,    S             S
PSD Specialist
6/99                          2   PSD Specialist, FS Specialist        U             U
9/99                          1   FS Specialist                        S             S
6/00                          1   FS Specialist                        S             S
11/00                         2   FS Specialist, Rur. Dev. Expert      S             S
ICR
* Note: ICR mission planned for 9/01 was cancelled due to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, in
the United States.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 NA                           NA
Appraisal/Negotiation                      NA                           539
Supervision                                NA                           373
ICR                                        NA                            18
Total                                                                   918
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LII Macro policies                       OH  OSUOM   ON  *NA
OL Sector Policies                        OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
0 Physical                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
OI Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Private sector development             0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS * S  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  *  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  * U  O HU
C  Government implementation performance             0 HS O S  * U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O u  0 HU
l Overall                                            OHS O S  * U  O HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The Borrower's contribution to this ICR, as well as a table explaining the FNG, are attached as additional
annexes.
- 25 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Contribution to ICR
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICOLE
DIRECTION GESTION DES RESSOURCES D'EMPRUNT
DIVISION GESTION ET SUIVI
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT SUR L'UTILISATION
DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT BIRD
PRET NO 3892 TUN
Projet National de Finance Rurale
Aout 2001
SOMMAIRE
I     Donnees principales:
II    Execution du projet:
1 - Approbations
a - financement BIRD
b - Cofinancement BIRD-BAD
2 - Deboursement BIRD
3 - Amendement de l'accord de pret
4 - Conversion du pret
5 - Remboursement - Reglement
III    Analyse du cofit du pret
1 - Cofit du pr&t
2 - Contribution du pret.
IV    Evaluation de la performance
1 - Performance de la BNA
2 - Performance de la Banque Mondiale
- 26 -



RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT SUR L'UTILISATION DE LA LIGNE DE
CREDIT BIRD No 3892 TUN
I - Donnees princiDales:
-  Numero du pret de la BIRD             : BIRD No 3892 TUN BIRD
-  Montant du pret BIRD                   M $US 65 (Soixante Cinq Millions de $US)
-  Date de signature du pret              07 juin 1995
Date limite d'imputation               31 mars 1999
-  Date limite d'utilisation             30 septembre 1999
-  Methode de decaissement                Retrait de Fonds du pret (F 1903 IF)
-  Date du ler appel de fonds aupres la BIRD:  20/12/1995
-  Date du ler decaissement              :10/01/1996
-  Taux d'interets                       : Variable semestriellement
-  Commission d'engagement               : 0,25%
-  Ech6ances                             : (01/01 - 01/07) et (15/01 - 15/07)
1 - Execution du proiet:
1)    Approbations:
a)    Financement BIRD.: (Annexe 1)
A la date de cloture du pret, le montant total cumule des credits approuves par la B.N.A. a
atteint MDT 82,422 dont MDT 75,400 ont et realises. Le financement de la BIRD a hauteur
successivement de 50 %, 75 % et 100 % en faveur de 828 projets, dont 344 projets de grandes
exploitations agricoles pour une montant de MDT 15,063 et 319 de petits et moyens projets
agricoles et d'habitations rurales pour un montant de MDT 7,332.
L'enveloppe reserv6e a ces deux categories de projets et dont le nombre total s'eleve a 663
projets represente 49 % du total d6caisse des projets entierement fmances sur la Sme ligne BIRD.
b)    Cofinancement BIRD-BAD : (Annexe lbis)
A la date d'expiration de la ligne de credit, les credits finances par la BAD a hauteur de
75% et relatifs aux 37 premiers appels de fonds sont cofinances par la BIRD pour le restant, soit 25
%. Ce cofinancement BIRD a atteint un montant total de MDT 8,936, dont 83% sont destines a
financer les petits et moyens agriculteurs.
- 27 -



2)    Deboursement BIRD: (Annexe 2)
Au cours de la periode de d6caissement du pret, allant du 10/01/1996 au 30/06/2001, 52
demandes de retrait de fonds ont ete adressees A la BIRD. Le total cumule d6caisse par la BIRD
est de DT 54.661.490, soit I'equivalent de USD 47.113.998,41. Cependant, un appel de fonds
d'un montant de DT 354.357 n'a pas encore et decaisse par la BIRD.
Apres I'annulation d'un montant de 10 M$US, le taux de consommation final du pret
s'etablit a 86 % environ. En effet, considerant la date butoire fixee par la BIRD au 30/06/2001 un
reliquat de USD 7.886.001,59 sera annule avant le versement de la demande de retrait N° 53.
3) Amendement de I'accord de pret:
A partir du mois de novembre 1999, l'accord de pret a ete amende cornme suit.
1.    Deux prorogations successives de la date limite d'utilisation du pret d'abord jusqu'au 31
decembre 2000 ensuite jusqu'au 30 juin 2001.
2.    Augmentation des pourcentages de financement des differentes categories de projets A partir
des utilisations du mois de novembre 1999 comme suit:
* Categories 1 et 2(b): 1 00 % au lieu de 50 %
* Categories 2(a), 3, 4, 5, et 6 : 75 % au lieu de 50 %
3.    Reaffectation de la totalite du montant alloue A la categorie A-5 (Habitations rurales) et
10% de la categorie A2-b vers la categorie A2-a qui a enregistre un depassement du montant
affecte.
4.    Annulation partielle du pret pour I'6quivalent de 10 M $US le 20 fevrier 2001 comme date
d'effet.
4) Conversion du pret:
Le pret 3892 TUN a ete converti au mois de mai 1998 en deux sous-prts:
* Pr8t N° 3892-0 en pool de devise A taux variable, d'un montant de USD
21.511.150,85 totalement decaisse.
* Prt N° 3892-A en devise unique avec un taux base sur le LIBOR d'un montant de US
33.488.849,15, apres l'annulation partielle de 10 M$US de l'enveloppe du pret,
debourse A hauteur de 77,16% A la date limite de decaissement en tenant compte de
l'appel de fonds N°53 non encore decaisse avec un cours indicatif de 1,4816.
5) Rgiement - Remboursement:
Au 15/07/2001, la BNA a rembours6 un montant total de DT 17.996.670,476, soit
l'equivalent de USD 13.719.250,19 en principal, interets et commissions d'engagement regroupant
deux echeances en principal de DT 7.468.174,740 , soit USD 5.182.482,61 et 12 echeances en
interets et des commissions de DT 10.528.495,736, soit 1'equivalent de USD 8.536.767,58.
- 28 -



Le reliquat A rembourser A partir de cette date jusqu'A la derniere echeance en 2012 s'elve
A USD 49.817.517,39 environ.
III - Analyse du cofut du pret:
1)    Cofit du pret:
Conformement A la section 2.05 de I'article 2 de I'accord de pr6t, la BNA verse des interets
sur le principal du pret retire et non rembourse A un taux annuel egal pour chaque p6riode d'interet,
A un demi pour cent en sus du cofit des emprunts de reference pendant le semestre se terminant
avant le d6but de ladite periode d'interets. Les taux factur6s par la BIRD lors des dernieres
ech6ances s'elvent successivement A 4,86 % pour le pret N°3892-O et 5,54 % pour le pret N°
3892-A.
Depuis le 20/12/1995, date du ler retrait de fonds aupres de la BIRD jusqu'A la date du
dernier appel de fonds adresse le 12/07/2001 mais non encore decaisse, le TMM a ete revis6 huit
fois A la baisse variant entre 8,8125 et 5,9375.
Le cofit definitif de la ligne BIRD supporte par la B.N.A. est soit le taux facture par la
BIRD majore de 1 % representant la commission flat de change, soit le TMM + 0,5 %.
D'autre part, le montant de la commission d'engagement payee par la BNA sur la base d'un
taux de 0,25 % l'an s'elve A DT 681.843,712.
2)    Contribution tu pret:
Le projet a permis A la B.N.A. d'acceder A des ressources stables A terme et proche du taux
du marche monetaire majore de 50 points de base afin de fmancer plusieurs categories de projets
(agricoles, agro-industriels, de peche, 15 cooperatives de services agricoles etc...)
IV - Evaluation des Performances:
1.    Performance de la BNA:
a)    Ligne de credit:
La Direction Gestion des Ressources d'Emprunt est composee de deux Division: la
Division Mobilisation des Ressources et la Division Gestion et Suivi qui est chargee entre autres de
gerer la ligne de credit BIRD (faire des demandes d'approbations des projets, suivre et contr6ler les
decaissements, appeler les fonds aupres de la BIRD, suivre les remboursements de 1'emprunt, le
reglement des commissions et des int6rets etc..)
Le retard de consommation de la ligne de cr6dit BIRD qui a eu pour consequence
- 29 -



l'annulation partielle du pret est lie essentiellement au fait que la Banque Mondiale a finance depuis
la mise en vigueur de la ligne jusqu'au mois de novembre 99 (date limite d'utilisation du pret fix6e
mitialement dans l'article II section 2.03) seulement 50% des credits eligibles autrement dit 50% de
l'enveloppe du pret. Un fmancement de 100% des credits etait de nature a utiliser le pret dans les
delais impartis et eviter meme la prorogation de la date limite d'utilisation.
Par sa lettre du 10/07/2001, la BIRD nous a informe que le reliquat non utilise de
l'enveloppe globale sera aussi annule et ceci apres 1'expiration de la date d'utilisation du pret, soit
le 30/06/2001. Ce reliquat non utilise serait de l'ordre de $7.646.829,75 en tenant compte du cours
indicatif de 1,4816 du $ pour la derniere demande de retrait.
La B.N.A. se propose de mettre en place un systeme de suivi-evaluation acceptable qui sera
de nature a permettre de suivre l'impact des projets fmances sur le developpement economique et
social du pays.
Aussi la B.N.A. est engagee dans la mise en muvre d'un schema directeur strategique du
systeme d'information (SDSSI) qui lui permettra d'operer les mutations technologiques et
organisationnelles necessaires pour offrir des services de qualite similaire a ceux offerts par les
banques Europ6ennes. Ce SDSSI qui s'etale sur la periode 2000-2006 avec un cofit
d'investissement evalue a 16 Millions de Dinars lui permettra en particulier d'avoir:
*     Une integration de l'ensemble de ses information.
*     Une circulation plus rapide et fiable des flux d'information.
*     Une s6curite homogene et renforcee a tous les niveaux (habilitations et piste d'audit).
*     Une adaptation de son systeme d'information a son environnement national et international.
b)    Situation fmanciere: (CF notre envoi du 14/08/2001)
Compte tenu de l'evolution du produit net bancaire et des charges de fonctionnement et
autres charges, le resultat d'exploitation degage par la BNA s'est etabli a 14,6 MD au 30/06/2001
contre 13,6 MD une annee auparavant.
2.    Performance de la Banque Mondiale:
Courant l'utilisation de la ligne de credit BIRD, nous nous permettons de signaler certaines
difficultes, d'une part au niveau de:
* L'insuffisance du pourcentage du financement du credit (50 % au lieu de 100 %,
sachant que le credit represente 70 % du couit d'investissement)
* La prorogation de la date limite d'utilisation qui etait difficilement acceptable par la
BIRD et limite au 30/06/2001 et non au 31/12/2001 comme il a e  demande par la
B.N.A. En plus, cette prorogation a et faite sur deux fois comme mentionn6 ci-dessus.
D'autre part, au niveau du deboursement des fonds, en fait le d6lai moyen pour les
- 30 -



decaissements a ete de 28 jours et plus, nous citons a titre d'exemples:
*     Appel defonds N° 30 . Cette demande de retrait de fonds a necessite 8 mois avant le
decaissement (adressee le 24/12/98 et decaissee le 03/08/99).
*     Appel de fonds N° 53 . Cette demande est non encore decaissee depuis le 12/07/2001.
Par ailleurs, les missions periodiques de supervision des repr6sentants de la Banque
Mondiale ont ete d'une utilite remarquable et ont pernis une assistance et une collaboration
fructueuse et continue avec les responsables de la BNA.
- 31 -



Annexe I
Banque Nationale agricole
Direction des Ressources D'Emprunt
Division Gestion et Suivi
Projets approuves sur la 5eme ligne BIRD par categorie
Au 31/08/2001
en DT
Credits          Credits     Financement   Financement  Financement            Total
CATEGORIES                  approuWvs          utilises       BIRD            BIRD           BIRD        Financement
Dkcaissement  DNcaissement  Dcaissement          BIRD
Nbre    Montant                       (50%)           (75%)         (100%)
AI - Projets agro-alimentaires   59   45.422.469   36.915.111        17.403.280                     2.159.552     19.562.832
et agro-industriels
A2-aProjets agricoles des       319    5.573.570   11.097.512         1.581.533      5.831.088                     7.412.621
petits et moyens
agnculteurs et
Habitations rurales
A2-b Projets agncoles de gros   344   23.267.805   20.087.632         5.024.621                    10.038.390     15.063.011
agriculteurs
A3 - Pche et aquaculture         89    6.301.000    5.566.016         2.322.640        690.556                     3.013.196
A4 - Cooperatives de services     15    1.857.278    1.733.500          866.750                                      866.750
et PME
B I - Biens et services            1                    88.000                     *   70.400                         70.400
informatiques
B2 - Services de consultants et    1                    90.666                                         90.666         90.666
informations
TOTAL
828   82.422.122   75.399.771       27.198.824      6.592.044      12.288.608  46.079.476
* Montant finance a hauteur de 80 %
- 32 -



Annexe Ibis
Banque Nationale agricole
Direction Gestion des Ressources D'Emprunt
Division Gestion et Suivi
Credits cofmances
Par BAD-BID
Au 31/08/2001
en DT
Financement
CATEGORIES                       Credits utilises           BIRD
sur BAD             (decaissement)
(25%)
Al - Projets agro-alimentaires et             2.488.788                 622.197
agro-industriels
A2-a Projets agricoles des petits et         29.648.458               7.412.115
moyens agriculteurs
A2-b Projets agricoles de gros                        0                       0
agrculteurs
A3 - Peche et aquaculture                           1.942.384                485.596
A4 - Cooperatives de services et              1.645.204                 411.301
PME
A5 - Habitations rurales                              20.648                   5.162
B 1 - Biens et services informatiques
B2 - Services de consultants et
informations
Total General              35.745.482               8.936.371
- 33 -



Annexe 2
Banque Nationale agricole
Direction des Ressources D'Emprunt
Division Gestion et Suivi
ETAT DES RETRAITS SUR PRET BIRD 3892 TUN
AU 31/08/2001
Montant du Pret:                       65 M USD
Date de signature de convention:       07/06/1995
Date de mise en vigueur:               21/09/1995
Date limite d'utilisation              30/06/2001
Taux d'interets:                        (variable)
Prime de change:                          I %
Commission d'engagement:                 0,25 %
Echeances:                            01/01 & 01/07
15/01 & 15/07
DEMANDE DE RETRAIT DES FONDS                                        ENCAISSEMENTS
Date             Objet      Date cession        Date de valeur   De tirage  Mont. en DT  Mon. En USD Cours
20/12/95        Retraitno I (Fin. Norr                     10/01/96     1000      3.082.000     3.254.831,56  0,9469
20/12/95        Retrait no 2 (Fin. Retn                   30/01/96      993       2.130.750     2.685.247,42  0,9700
09/01/96        Retrait no 3 (Fin. Retr7                  30/01/96                473.940
09/01/96        Retraitno 4 (Fin. Norr     -              09/02/96      1001      837.083       870.782,27    0,9613
Conversion                                 -              20/06/96                             3.339,44
11/06/96       Retrait no 5                -              24/06/96      1062      1.461.434     1.494.308,79  0,9780
24/05/96        Retrait no 7               -               14/08/96      1124     644.969       673.385,89    0,9578
2i/07/96        Retraitno 8         19/09/96              27/09/96      1129       1.329.528    1.368.390,29  0,9716
Ij/09/96       Retraitno 9          19/09/96              27/09/96                608.145       625.921,16
14/10/96       Retrait no 10        11/10/96          08/11/96 (06/11/96)  1142   684.422       701.467,66    0,9757
Totalau31/12/9                                                                    11.252.271    11.677.674,41
10/03/97       Retraitno 11         07/03/97    26/03/97 (25/03/97)     1183      1.513.323     1.401.569,85   1,0805
10/03/97       Retrait no 11        07/03/97    24/04/97 (22/04/97)               124.000       114.714,91
(comnplmentaire)
07/04/97        Retrait no 12       31/03/97    Couvert. de I'av. du 20/06/9 1204  1.454.379    1.365.998,87   1,0647
36/04/97        Retrait no 13       24/04/97    Couvert. del'av. du20/06/9 1216   512.156       473.560,80    1,0815
21/05/97        Retraitno 14        19/05/97    Couvert. de 'av. du 20/06/9 1220  510.873       474.084,06    1,0776
23/06/97        Retrait no 15       11/06/97    Couvert. de I'av. du 20/06/5 1225  748.251      686.720,81    1,0896
26/08/97        Retrait no 16       21/08/97    Couvert. de l'av. du 20/06/9 1248  1.345.685    1.170.160,86  1,1500
16/09/97        Retrait no 17       16/09/97    Couvert. de I'av. du 20/06/9 1255  392.140      348.692,87    1,1246
21/10/97        Retrait no 18       16/10/97    Couvert. del'av. du20/06/9 1271    986.015      887.662,05    1,1108
25/11/97        Retraitno 19        24/11/97    Couvert. de l'avy du 20/06/9 1343  456.749      414.623,28    1,1016
26/12/97        Retraitno 20        19/12/97    Couvert. de l'av. du 20/06/9 1353  764.123      678.496,40    1,1262
Total au 31/12/9                                                                  20.059.965    19.693.959,2
16/02/98       Retrait no 21                    06/03/98                1354      981.488       847,119,44    1, 1586
36/03/98        Retrait no 22                   16/04/98                1327      307.952       264.745,53    1,1632
13/04/98        Retrait no 23                   29/04/98                1331      406.886       353.937,02    1,1496
05/05/98       Retrait no 22 bis                27/05/98                1340      398.265       351.389,62    1,1334
S/Totalt                                                                           22.154.556    21.511.150,8'
19/05/98       Retrait no 24                    22/06/98                1346      642.922       561.552,97    1,1449
05/06/98        Retrait no 25                   22/06/98                1345       1.914.216    1.671.950,39  1,1449
Total au 30/06/9                                                                  24.711.694    23.744.654,2
17/07/98       Retrait no 26                    30/07/98                1365       1.053.763    920.477,81    1,1448
09/09/98        Retrait no 27                   24/09/98                 1376      859.018      781.138,49    1,0997
13/10/98       Retrait no 28                    09/11/98                1385       1.678.802    1.555.742,74  1 ,0791
- 34 -



Total au 31/12/9  _                ___ _                                     _  28.303.277    27.002.013,2     .
14/12/98       Retrait no 29               -   26/01/99                1403      907.322      829.513,62    1,0938
10/02/99       Retrait no 31               -   03/03/99                1407      1.375.359    1.198.465,49  1,1476
12/03/99       Retrait no 32               -   29/03/99                1413      802.421      692.339,09    1,1590
12/04/99       Retrait no 33               -   18/05/99                1417      980.878      831.041,26    1,1803
Total au 30/06/9                                                                 32.369.257    30.553.372,7: _
22/06/99       Retrait no 34               -   12/07/99                1419      647.499      527.021,81    1,2286
24/12/98       Retrait no 30               -   03/08/99                1420      800.000      675.219,45    1,1848
03/09/99       Retrait no 35               -   17/09/99                1432      689.495      571.720,56    1,2060
07/10/99       Retrait no 36               -   29/10/99                1459      1.287.777    1.085.815,35  1,1860
Total au 31/12/9                                                                 3S.794.028    33.413.149,8!
10/01/2000     Retrait no 37               -   20/01/2000              1472      564.494      454.394,27    1,2423
11/02/2000     Retrait no 38               -   09/03/2000              1473      586.510      453.498,80    1,2933
02/06/2000     Retrait no 39               -   13/06/2000              1474      775.130      582.673,08    1,3303
31/05/2000     Retrait no 40       _            14/06/2000             1475      2.349.927     1.759.190,75 1,3358
Total au                                                                         40.070.089    36.662.906,7!
30/06/2000
13/07/2000     Retrait no 41               -   21/07/2000              1481      3.826.901    2.831.595,00  1,3515
11/08/2000     Retrait no 42               -   05/09/2000              1482      618.229      440.616,75    1,4031
13/09/2000     Retrait no 43               -   26/09/2000              1491      1.088.668    754.656,87    1,4426
06/10/2000     Retrait no 44               -   20/10/2000              1492      587.794      405.879,02    1,4482
20/11/2000     Retrait no 45               -   05/12/2000              1495      843.622      587.930,87    1,4349
Total au                                                                         47.035.303    41.683.585,31
31/12/2000
12/12/2000     Retrait no 46               -   04/01/2001              1498      1.645.906    1.204.821,02  1,3661
18/01/2001     Retrait no 47               -   06/02/2001              1499      1.681.493    1.239.307,93  1,3568
02/02/2001     Retrait no 48               -   14/02/2001              1500      611.454      446.554,95    1,3693
15/03/2001     Retrait no 49               -   04/04/2001              1514      1.186.334    825.218,42    1,43 76
03/04/2001     Retrait no 50               -   26/04/2001              1515      572.593      405.605,30    1,4117
09/05/2001     Retrait no 51               -   30/05/2001              1516      1.149.050     782.891,60    1,4677
06/06/2001     Retrait no 52               -   22/06/2001              -         779.35 7     526.023,89    1,4816
Total au                                                                         54.661A90    47.113.998,4:
30/0612001
12/07/2001     Retrait no 53                                                     354.357      239.171,84    * 1, 4816
Total au                                                                         55.015.847    47.353.170,2'
2 7/08/2001     _
Taux de consommation: (apres annulation de 10 MUSD  85,66%
Reliquat en USD:                                7.886.001,59
Relquat en DT:                                  11.683.899,957
* Cours indicatif du Dollar (Montant non encore decaisse)
- 35 -



Annexe 3
Banque Nationale agricole
Direction des Ressources D'Emprunt
Division Gestion et Suivi
SITUATION DES RETRAITS SUR PRET BIRD 3892
ARRETEE A U 31/08/2001
Montant        % de             Utilisations        Reliquat i
CATEGORIES           affecte en USD  Financement _      _       ______:_    utiliser
BIRD       Montant en       %
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   U SD   _ _ _
Al - Proj ets agro-         22.950.000,00         100   18.604.984,36    81,07  4.345.015,64
alimentaires et agro-
industriels
A2-a Projets agricoles des  12.946.660,56          75   12.480.075,14    96,40    466.585,42
petits et moyens
agriculteurs
A2-b Projets agricoles de gros   13.500.000,00    100   11.486.674,99    85,09  2.013.325,01
agriculteurs
A3 - Peche et aquaculture    3.600.000,00          75    3.110.465,17    86,40    489.534,83
A4 - Cooperatives de         1.500.000,00          75    1.316.421,20    87,76    183.578,80
services et PME
BI - Biens et services       3000.000,00     80 ou 100      48.970,51     16,32    251.029,49
informatiques
B2 - Services de consultants  200.000,00          100       63.067,61    31,53    136.932,39
et informations
Ecart de conversion             3.339,44                     3.339,44    100,00         0,00
TOTAL
55.000.000,00               47.113.998,41    85,66  7.886.001,59
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. National Guarantee Fund (FNG) Payment Structure
FORME D'INTERVENTION DU FONDS                  PROPORTIONS DE
PRISE EN CHARGES                                     Observations
FNG    BANQUE    SCM
I. Prise en charge des montants des credits
irr&couvrables
1/ Credits a court terme d'exploitation,        90%          10%                      Ces proportions sont egalement appliquees pour la prise
octroyes aux petits et moyens agriculteurs                                             en charge des montants irrecouvrables des prEts a moyen
(categories A et B)                                                                    et long terme consentis aux petits et moyens agriculteurs
et pecheurs ou au profit des petits et moyens projets
agricoles et de pEche, ainsi qu'en faveur des entreprises a
caractere cooperatif ou mutualiste beneficiant de l'aide de
I'Etat dans le cadre du code d'incitation aux
investtssements.
2/ Credits a court terme d'exploitation ,       70%           5%            25%        La part de 70% assumee par le FNG peut etre relev6e, a
octroy&s aux petits et moyens agriculteurs et                                          titre exceptionnel sur decision de la commission FUNG.
pecheurs (categories A et B) affilies aux                                              A l'effet de pallier tout defaillance damentjustifiee dans
Societes de Caution Mutuelle Agricole                                                 la prise en charge des risques.
11. Prise en charge des interets decoulant des    Meme proportion que la prise en     11 s'agit des interets decoulant des montants impayes en
montants impaves de sous les credit eligibles    charge des montants irrecouvrables.   principal des credits declares a garantie du fonds et ce,
durant la periode allant du d6but de 'engagement par la
banque des procedures judiciaires de recouvrement
contentieux du creditjusqu'a la prise en charge par le
FNG de la part lui revenant du credit irrecouvrable.
Le calcul des interets s'effectue sur la base de montants
impayvs des credits et seront payvs une fois par an.
FNG              BANQUE
III. Prise en charge des frais de poursuites
judiciaires et de recouvrement contentieux
des credits
*    Credits accordes aux projets implantes         75%                 25%
dans les zones de developpement
regional
*    Credits accordes aux projets implantes         50°'                50%
dans les autres zones
IV. Prise en charge des interets decoulant
d'un reechelonnement
If Credits a court terme d'exploitation,           100%                               - La periode de r66chelonnement ne doit pas depasser 5
dispenses sur les dep6ts bancaires en faveur                                           ans
des petits et moyens agriculteurs (categories                                          - Le FNG intervient lorsque survient une secheresse
A et B)                                                                                confirmee par decret.
2/ Les prets 0 moyen et long terme, consentis       100%
sur les ressources ordinaires ou d'emprunt de
la Banque en faveur des petits ou moyens
agriculteurs ou pecheurs (categories A et B)
et des petits et moyens projets de creation ou
d'extension, dans le secteur de l'agriculture et
de la peche, tels que definis par les textes en
vigueur. Ainsi que les prets a moyen et long
termes accordes, sur les ressources ordinaires
ou d'emprunt des banques, au profit des
entreprises a caractere coop&ratif ou
mutualiste beneficiant de l'aide de I'Etat dans
le cadre du code d'incitations aux
investissements.
3/ Les credits de culture saisonniere et les        100%
credits d'investissement consentis aux
agriculteurs de la categories C et declares a la
garantie du fonds contre le risque de
s6cheresse confirme par un decret qui fixe les
zones sinistrees
- 37-



- 38 -



