Page  1
October 5, 1999
H.E. Mohamed Ghannouchi 
Minister of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
98, Avenue Mohamed V 1002 
Tunis-Belvédère  
Republic of Tunisia
Monsieur Ferid Ben Tanfous 
President-Directeur 
General Banque Nationale Agricole 
Rue Hedi Nouira 1001 
Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia
Re:
Loan No. 3892-TUN (National Rural Finance Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreement
Excellency and Dear Sir:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (National Rural Finance Project) dated June 7, 
1995, as amended, between Banque Nationale Agricole (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for Loan No. 
3892-TUN, and the related Guarantee Agreement of the same date between the  Republic 
of Tunisia (the Guarantor) and the Bank.  We also refer to the understandings reached 
among the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank to modify the Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements to allow for a higher percentage of disbursements under the Loan, and to 
extend the Project’s closing date, as well as the deadline by which the study under 
Part C of the Project is to be completed.
To substantiate the understandings referred to above, the Loan Agreement and the 
Guarantee Agreement are hereby amended as follows:
1.
In the Loan Agreement, the date stated under Section 2.03 shall read “December 
31, 2000”, the percentage of expenditures to be financed under Categories (1), (2) 
(b), set forth in the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, shall 
be  100% and the percentage of expenditures to be financed under Categories (2) (a), 
(3), (4), (5) and (6), set forth in the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement, shall be 75%.
2.
In Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement, the colon at the end of the first 
paragraph, together with the letter “(a)” at the start of the second paragraph, shall 
be deleted, the date appearing under paragraph (a) shall read “June 30, 2000”, the 
semicolon and the word “and”, both of which appear at the end of paragraph (a), shall 
be deleted and shall be replaced by a fulstop, and paragraph (b) of Section shall be 
deleted in its entirety.
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement 
that have not been amended hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Amendment Letter and returning it 
to us.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
By /s/ Christian Delvoie 
Director 
Maghreb Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
Authorized Representative
Date: October 23, 1999
BANQUE NATIONALE AGRICOLE
By /s/ Mohamed Ferid Ben Tanfous      
Authorized Representative
Date: October 22, 1999                      
