Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14626
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1865-MAU)
JUNE 15, 1995
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1.00 = UM 76 (appraisal)
US$ 1.00 = UM 125 (closing)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM                 Bureau d 'organisation et de methodes
(Organization and Methods Office)
BCIR                 Bureau for Coordination of Institutional Reform
CCIR                 Committee for Coordination of Institutional Reform
CNI                  Centre national d 'informatique
(National Data Processing Center)
ATCT                Agence tunisienne de cooperation technique
(Tunisian Technical Assistance Agency)
ENA                 Ecole nationale d 'administration
(National School for Administration)
FAC                 Fonds d 'aide et de cooperation
(French Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
MCS                  Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, Youth and Sports
MEF                  Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIIT                 Ministry of Interior, Information and Telecommunications
MFME                 Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy
PE                   Public Enterprises
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
PREF                Programme de Recouvrement Economique et Financier
(Economic and Financial Recovery Program)
SDR                  Special Drawing Right
UNDP                United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CR. 1865-MAU)
Table of Contents
Preface                    .........................................................           i
Evaluation Summary .........................................................                    ii
Introduction ..................   ........................................    i
Project Objectives ............................... ..........................  ii
Implementation Experience and Results ................. ....................  iii
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned             .........................  iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................                       1
A. Project Identity .1
B. Project Background.                                                                 I
C.   Project Objectives and Description.                                               2
D.   Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                3
E.      Implementation Record and Factors Affecting the Project                        6
F.  Project Sustainability .6
G. Bank Performance.                                                                   7
H. Borrower Performance.                                                               8
1.  Assessment of Outcome.                                                             9
J. Future Operation.                                                                   9
K. Key Lessons Learned.                                                                9
PART II.  STATISTICAL ANNEXES  .........................................................        11
Table I    Summary of Assessment .11
Table 2          Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
Table 3    Project Timetable .12
Table 4    Credit Disbursements .13
Table 5          Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation               14
Table 6          Studies Included in the Project        .................... .....     16
Table 7   Project Costs .17
Table 8          Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 9          Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                         22
Table 10    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 11   Bank Resources: Missions .23
Appendix A       Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B       Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C       Map
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1865-MAU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Development Management
Project in Mauritania, for which Credit 1865-MAU in the amount of SDR 7.9 million was
approved on December 17, 1987, and made effective on September 15, 1988.
The credit was closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1994.  Final
disbursements took place on April 26, 1995, at which time the undisbursed balance of SDR 0.7
million was canceled. Cofinancing in the amount of US$0.4 million was provided by France.
The ICR was prepared by William Cooper of the Country Operations Division, Western
Africa Department, and reviewed by Birger Fredriksen, Division Chief, and Emmerich Schebeck,
Projects Adviser.
Preparation of the ICR was begun following the Bank's final supervision mission of April
1994. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and other material in the project file,
and discussions with staff who participated in the development and supervision of the project. The
borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting its evaluation of the project's
execution and achievements.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1865-MAU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project originated from the Mauritanian Government's request in early 1985 for
assistance with the management and implementation of its 1985-1989 Economic and Financial
Recovery Program (PREF). This led to an institutional assessment of the Government's functions
and operations, carried out by IDA in late 1985. After the Government endorsed the assessment's
general conclusions, detailed preparation of a public sector management operation began with IDA
assistance. An advance of US$0.5 million from the Project Preparation Facility, approved in
April 1986 and increased to US$1.5 million in December 1987, financed a considerable amount of
preparatory work, the results of which were widely discussed with Government. The Government's
commitment to public sector reform became an integral part of the Letter of Development Policy of
the First Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1812-MAU) approved on June 2, 1987. In late 1986
the Government set up a Committee for Coordination of Institutional Reform (CCIR) to assume
overall responsibility for administrative reform and specifically for management of the proposed
Development Management Project.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Development Management Project were to  support the
implementation of the Government's Economic and Financial Recovery Program (1985-1989) by
strengthening weak institutions and building administrative capacity in the areas of economic
management and public service. The project had five major components:
a)    Improving the functions of the Presidency in the areas of interministerial decision
making, legal and regulatory oversight, reform of the administrative apparatus and public
procurement;
b)     Strengthening the Ministry of Economy and Finance in investment analysis,
planning and programming, aid coordination, budget preparation and implementation, and
tax collection and management;
c)     Reforming the Civil Service in the areas of personnel management, procedures and
the legal framework, and polices and programs related to employment practices, career
development, compensation, training and staff deployment,



iii
d)    Decentralizing Government services from  the central to the regional and
departmental levels;
e)    Reorganizing the Ministry of Fisheries & Maritime Economy, building up local
consulting expertise, and conducting pre-investment studies for a follow-up operation.
3.    Special covenants designed to promote the achievement of project objectives included: (i)
establishment within the Presidency of an organization and methods office (Bureau d' Organization
et de Methodes) to spearhead the development of administrative reforns; (ii) completion of studies
on personnel management information systems, Civil Service employment, career development,
compensation and training; and (iii) restructuring the ministerial departments responsible for
economic planning, budgeting and aid coordination. These actions were to be completed within the
first eighteen months of project implementation.
4.     Project objectives were comprehensive, covering the Government's key economic
management institutions. However, the operation was too complex, with too many components,
and involving too many units in Government. Project design over-estimated the Government's
absorptive capacity and its commitment to the operation, and attempted to accomplish policy and
institutional changes which an inexperienced administration could not be expected to carry out in
such a short time.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was only marginally successful in achieving its objectives. Its main objective
of supporting the Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment programs was only
partially achieved because of delays in getting the administrative reform process off the ground and
the institutional improvements implemented. The strengthening of key ministries responsible for
managing the economy and reforming the civil service was initiated but in the majority of cases not
completed. Some administrative reforms that were implemented under the project, such as revised
public procurement procedures, are sustainable because they are supported by laws or legally
adopted regulations. Reforms and administrative improvements initiated but not completed are
sustainable only if Government becomes more committed to them and obtains professional
expertise to help implement them.
6.    The project was completed within the financial and time limits set at appraisal. Actual
project costs at 7.2 million SDR were slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 7.9 million
SDR, mainly because of an increase in the US$/SDR exchange rate over the project period.
Financing arrangements were unchanged from those set at appraisal, with France cofinancing
technical assistance in the amount of US$0.4 million equivalent.
7.    Key factors that affected the achievement of major project objectives include: (i) a period
of economic and financial instability and social unrest from 1989 to 1992 that turned
Government's attention away from the economic recovery and institutional reform programs
supported by the project; (ii) institutional instability with frequent changes in Government
structures and resulting staff rotations that altered the dimensions of the project and upset
implementation plans; and (iii) technical assistance and staff development programs funded by
other donors that were not integrated in the design of the operation, escaped Bank supervision and
resulted in a very marginal project contribution to local capacity building.



Iv
8.     Bank support for project preparation was extensive, including a comprehensive
institutional assessment led by IDA that formed the basis for project design, and several seminars
with Mauritanian stakeholders to build support for and commitment to the operation. Bank
supervision missions during the 1988/89 project start-up period, supplemented by visits of
technical specialists, provided valuable technical assistance to the Govermment and helped shape
the substance of the operation. The project's mid-term review was conducted in mid-1991.
Following this review, project objectives were scaled down to take account of limited progress
made during the first half of project implementation. Bank supervision during the second half of
the project period was inadequate as supervision coefficients were reduced and field visits fell
below acceptable levels. The Bank's Resident Mission in Nouakchott provided some logistic
support to the supervision effort but did not play an active role.
9.     The Borrower took an active part in project preparation, assisted by consultants. The
project coordination unit was set up in a timely fashion, appropriately staffed and equipped.
However, because it was attached to the Ministry of Civil Service, the unit did not have the clout
needed to move implementation forward and achieve results. Progress reports in adequate detail
were prepared semi-anually; some audit reports were submitted with delays.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   On balance, project outcomes are unsatisfactory as none of the major objectives were
achieved. Operations of the Presidency were somewhat improved, particularly with respect to the
regular publication of the Journal officiel and the introduction of revised public procurement
procedures, but the work of the council of ministers was not affected by the project. There were no
discemible improvements in the operations of the Ministry of Plan (a new ministry created after
Credit effectiveness). Improvements in the Ministry of Finance were marginal, with the exception
of the customs service which was equipped under the project. Civil service reform was not
achieved although a few administrative measures were implemented, spurred on by the
requirements of the PFP. Decentralization of Government services was started under the project,
but is still ongoing and far from complete. The Ministry of Fisheries was not reorganized; local
consulting expertise was not built up under the project, and pre-investment studies for a follow-up
operation were not conducted.
11.    There are no plans for a future operation of the same scope and design.  Further
administrative reforms in Mauritania would be conducted in the context of structural or sectoral
adjustment operations or as part of sector investment programs.
12.    Lessons for future consideration include: (i) the difficulty for the Bank to be an absentee
stakeholder in the process of institutional change; (ii) the need for persistent Govemment
commitment to the change agenda and close attention to the implementation process by both the
Bank and the Borrower; (iii) the need to set realistic and monitorable performance indicators
against which implementation progress can be measured; and (iv) the need for the Bank to provide
frequent, consistent, well-structured and well-organized supervision where the emphasis is on
providing Govemment with solid professional advice and technical assistance.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1865-MA)
Part I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Project Identity
Project name:               Development Management Project
Credit Number and Amount:   Cr. 1865-MAU of SDR 7.9 million
Country:                    Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Sector:                     Economic Management
Date approved:              December 17, 1987
Date effective:             September 15, 1988
B.    Project Background
I.    Mauritania is a vast desert country with a limited resource base and a population of just
over two million, growing at a rate of 2.8% per annum (1993). Per capita income is about
US$5 10, placing Mauritania at the upper end of low-income economies. Standards of living are
low: life expectancy at birth is only 47 years; infant mortality is 120 per thousand live births; and
about 65% of the population aged 15 and older is illiterate.  Only a generation ago most
Mauritanians were nomads. Successive droughts caused dramatic demographic changes and today
the population is mostly settled. The level of urbanization is about 48%, the highest in the Sahel.
The largest urban concentration is in Nouakchott where 39% of the population lives. Major
economic activities include iron ore mining in the North, irrigated agriculture in the Senegal river
valley, and fishing, which together account for practically all export eamings. The majority of the
population lives on subsistence agriculture, the largest employer, and on livestock.
2.     During the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s, Mauritania's strategy for
economic growth emphasized the development of a diversified economy based on mining, fishing
and irrigated agriculture. Achievements were few, due to mismanagement, falling world prices for
iron ore, and long periods of drought. In 1985, the Government launched a comprehensive
economic adjustment program (Economic and Financial Recovery Program, 1985-89) which was
successful in reorienting macro-economic policies and laying the foundation for reforms in
economic management and public administration. The Bank supported the program through
successive PFPs, a Structural Adjustment Credit (FY87), and a Development Management Project
(FY88).
3.    The Economic Recovery Program was succeeded by the Consolidation Program in 1989,
but implementation of the program was largely paralyzed by tense internal and external political
conditions and social unrest. As a result, GDP growth declined as output in agriculture, mining



2
and fisheries fell, and the domestic financial imbalance worsened. By late 1992, conditions had
improved and the Government turned its attention back to the adjustment program. The Ouguiya
was devalued by 27% against the US dollar in October 1992 to boost competitiveness and exports,
and key structural measures were adopted in the areas of trade, pricing, taxation, public
expenditure, the civil service and the social sectors. Successive PFPs and two adjustment credits
for the agricultural and public enterprise sectors (FY90) supported the Consolidation Program.
The Sixth PFP (1994-97) guides the reform program in its current phase, with generally
satisfactory results.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
4.     Project Objectives: The overall objectives of the Development Management Project were
to support the Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment programs (in particular
the Economic and Financial Recovery Program 1985-89), strengthen key ministries in critical areas
of economic management, reform the civil service and strengthen personnel management, and
streamline administrative procedures.
5.    Project Description. The project consisted of five major components:
a)    Improve the Functions of the Presidency in the areas of interministerial decision
making and legal and regulatory oversight, organizational reforms of the government's
administrative apparatus, and management of public procurement;
b)     Strengthen the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the areas of investment
analysis, planning and programming, aid coordination, external debt management, budget
preparation and execution, and tax collection and management;
c)     Reform the Civil Service by rehabilitating personnel management, procedures and
information systems; revising the civil service legal framework; and developing policies
and programs for employment practices, career development, compensation, training and
staff deployment;
d)    Decentralize Government Services by designing and implementing the legal,
administrative and institutional framework at regional and departmental levels;
e)    Reorganize the Ministry of Fisheries & Maritime Economy, strengthen local
consulting capacities, and conduct pre-investment studies for a follow-up operation.
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives: Project objectives were comprehensive, covering the
key economic management institutions in the country, but they were overly ambitious. The
Government's limited absorptive capacity and crucial shortages of qualified and experienced staff
were recognized by the Loan Committee (LC memo of May 13, 1987). The LC raised the issue of
project complexity and recommended to scale the operation down to a more manageable scope, be
more selective, phase the approach, set clear targets and carefully specify all actions. Although the
appraisal team was aware of weaknesses in project objectives and design, the LC's comments were
not taken into account in the final stages of project processing and the project presented to the
Board remained as ambitious as originally conceived. The mid-term review of June/July 1991
flagged lack of progress in project implementation as an issue and attempted to refocus the project



3
on two major areas: economic and financial management (investment analysis, planning and
programming, management of public finances, and fiscal administration); and civil service reform
(reorientation of personnel policies, computerization of personnel management and administration,
and staff training).
7.    Project Design. The project was ambitious in scope and of complex design. There were
too many components and activities, involving too many units in Government. Project design
overestimated the Government's capacity and attempted to accomplish policy and administrative
changes which an inexperienced administration could not be expected to carry out in such a short
time. A number of project activities were left unspecified, to be developed and more precisely
defined as project implementation proceeded.  This, however, led the project to respond to
numerous ad-hoc requests for assistance that were not always consistent with the project's
objectives. Selected indicators for measuring project success were established in the SAR (Annex
IV) including dates for their achievement. However, these indicators were mostly intangible and
difficult to quantify and they were not particularly helpful in monitoring project outcomes.
8.    Responsibility for Project Implementation. Responsibility for project coordination was
allocated to a newly-created Bureau for Coordination of Institutional Reforms (BCIR), attached to
the Ministry of Civil Service. Because the Ministry of Civil Service is removed from the center of
the decision-making apparatus (the Presidency), it has little or no influence on the internal
operations of other ministries. As a result, project coordination was ineffective. In retrospect, it
would have been better if project coordination had been assigned to the Presidency.
9.    Risks. The SAR identified project risks as: (i) lack of or declimnng commitment to
institutional reform; (ii) limited local capacity to manage the reforms; (iii) difficulty in identifying
qualified technical assistance; and (iv) lack of effectiveness of the BCIR in coordinating the
project. Government commitment to institutional reform was never strong to begin with. It varied
during project implementation as a result of frequent changes of key senior Government officials
and it wavered during the 1989-92 period as Government turned its attention to ongoing economic
and political difficulties. The risk of weak local capacities to implement the reforms turned out to
be real: underqualified and inexperienced national staff, poor communications between government
departments, and poorly-defined implementation mechanisms contributed to long delays and the
non-achievement of objectives.  Unfortunately, the project contributed little to increase local
capacities, either through staff training or through technical assistance. The risk of not being able
to identify qualified technical assistance was unfounded. The project generally succeeded in
attracting well-qualified external consultants, both individuals and firms. The risk of ineffective
project coordination by the BCIR was correctly identified at appraisal. Coordination was in fact
weak throughout project implementation but no steps were taken to improve this situation.
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   Strengthening the Decision-making Functions of the Presidency. The objective of this
component was to strengthen the decision-making center of the Government and give it the means
to prepare, program, monitor and control its legislative programs. Project support focused on: (i)
strengthening the Legal Department to follow up on the deliberations of the Council of Ministers;
(ii) setting up a "Bureau d'Organisation et de Methodes" (BOM) to help formulate, analyze, advise
and monitor Government's plans to make the administrative apparatus more efficient; and (iii)
improving the public procurement system.



4
11.   With respect to upgrading the Presidency's Legal Department, improvements were made in
terms of translation of official Government documents (Arabic/French), setting up a legal library,
and publishing the official journal on a regular schedule. The latter was accomplished through a
twinning arrangement with the French Joumal Officiel and financed by France; the project only
financed some of the publication costs.
12.   The BOM was established in 1990, as planned. The project provided technical assistance,
equipment and logistic support to set it up and prepare a work program. In theory, the BOM gives
the Presidency the intellectual capacity for developing and supervising programs to streamline the
administration, conduct special studies, and provide advice on critical development issues.
Unfortunately, at project end, the BOM did not succeed in its mission for a variety of reasons
including a lack of competent staff, inadequate resources and a weak mandate.
13.   The third objective, improving public procurement, was achieved with a delay of almost
five years. Procurement legislation was revised with the help of project-financed cxpertise and
adopted in January 1993. The new procurement code and accompanying procedures became
effective in November 1994. Bank staff played a constructive role in the process by reviewing
draft legislation and participating in a national procurement seminar to introduce the new
procedures. The new procurement system, once fully implemented, is expected to speed up the
transit of procurement dossiers through the Central Tender Board, with simpler rules and higher
ceilings for contract awards at ministerial levels.
14.    Strengthening Economic Management. The objectives of this component were to (i)
improve the economic management functions of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF); (ii)
develop and implement a comprehensive staff training program, and (iii) develop and implement a
master plan for data processing. Shortly after Credit effectiveness, the MEF was split into two
separate Ministries: the Ministry of Plan (4 departments and about 160 staff) and the Ministry of
Finance (8 departments and about 1,400 staff). Project support was redirected to improving the
operation of the new Ministries. In the Ministry of Plan (MP), the emphasis was correctly placed
on improving the planning function and on staff development. Technical assistance, much of it
provided by France, the European Union and GTZ, focused on institutional analyses and
operational improvements. In the Ministry of Finance, the treasury, taxes, customs and data
processing departments were supplied under the project with equipment, computers and vehicles.
Technical assistance was provided by France.
15.    The project's impact on improving economic management is difficult to measure since
monitorable performance indicators were not established. Also, other donors provided significant
amounts of long-term technical assistance to both Ministries, which was not taken into account in
project design and to a large extent escaped Bank supervision. Consultants and long-term TA staff
tended to substitute for local staff and carried out much of the operational work. From a capacity-
building perspective, therefore, not much was accomplished. Some staff were trained through
various short-duration (typically two-week) in-country seminars but on-the-job training by TA
staff was ineffective. In many cases, local staff that received some form of training left the
positions for which they were trained. At project end, the Directorate of Planning in the Ministry
of Plan remains critically short of trained staff and has not been able to define its priorities,
including those of staff development. Results in the Ministry of Finance are also disappointing: the
Treasury Department has not implemented the reform of public sector accounting because the
status of public accountants has not been settled; the payroll data in the Department of Budget still



5
has not been linked to the civil service personnel files; and the master plan for computerization
handled by the Department of Informatique has not been implemented because the plan was
considered too ambitious and too costly. Responsibilities for managing and monitoring the external
debt are still not clearly delineated between Plan, Finance and the Central Bank. The Customs
Department, with considerable logistic support from the project (all-terrain vehicles and
communications equipment), has improved its operations.
16.    Concerning staff training, which represented 25 percent of the original Credit allocation,
demands for IDA financing of high-cost overseas training were very low as other donors provided
grant funds for that purpose. Project funds were therefore mainly used for locally-conducted
training. The Credit allocation for training was eventually reduced by 80%, from SDR 1.97
million to SDR 0.38 million (August 1992) and final disbursements amounted to onlv 0.32 million
SDR, one-sixth of the original provision. With respect to local training, the project helped set up
an in-service training unit for upgrading of civil servants at the National School of Administration
(ENA), together with a library/information center, and more than 1,000 staff are reported to have
attended short-term training seminars between 1989 and 1992. However, these activities have
come to a virtual standstill as course offerings responded poorly to demand and operatings funds
were not sufficient to run the unit. At project end, the unit's professional staff had dwindled from
eight to three.
17.    A great deal of long-duration professional training overseas was provided under ongoing
programs financed by other donors, notably France, the GTZ, and the European Union. This
reduced demands for IDA Credit funds. Unfortunately, this training tended to be ad-hoc and
uncoordinated, and not the result of any comprehensive institutional development plan. As is often
the case, some staff did not return to positions in the administration for which they were trained
and others were trained in disciplines unrelated to needs. Benefits therefore are questionable. The
mid-term review attempted to introduce some discipline into the process by making specific
recommendations on the need to identify institutional training requirements, establish clear
guidelines for the selection of trainees, set up mechanisms to evaluate the results of the training
program, and follow the career of the trainees upon their return from training. Unfortunately, these
recommendations were not implemented although they should be pursued in future operations. The
master plan for data processing developed by consultants was too ambitious and not implemented
because of the high investment costs.
18.    Reforming the Civil Service.  The objectives of this component were to assist the
Ministry of Civil Service (which administers about 18,000 civil servants) streamline administrative
processes, standardize personnel management, reform the legal framework, and develop and
implement a long-term administrative reform program. These objectives were valid but they were
only partially achieved.  A comprehensive study on civil service reform was conducted by
consultants in 1989. The first census of civil service personnel was completed in 1991 along with
draft laws for civil service employment, and civil service records were computerized. The vital
interface between the computerized staff lists of the Ministry of Civil Service and the pavroll
system of the Ministry of Finance was only partially established. This was mainly due to lack of
communication between the two ministries and inadequate follow-up by the project coordinator.
Some civil service reform measures were implemented in late 1992 under the requirements of the
fourth-year PFP 1992-94 (voluntary departures, lower retirement age, competitive recruitment) but
the proposed revision of the Ministry's organizational structure and staff reductions were not
carried out. Neither was the new salary scale as this would have increased the wage bill by 6%,



6
which was contrary to agreements reached with the International Monetary Fund. In sum, the first
tentative steps toward civil service reform have been taken, but the process is far from complete.
19.    Decentralizing Government Services. This component's objectives were to improve the
Ministry of the Interior's capacity to supervise the operations of local governments, implement the
decentralization program adopted by Government in 1986, and train local government staff.
Project inputs were provided as planned: consultants assisted in the preparation of legal texts and
regulations governing municipal government, several training seminars in local government were
conducted, electoral lists were drawn up and communications between the ministry and
communities were strengthened. The decentralization program is being implemented progressively
in more than 200 municipalities.
20.    Reorganizing the Ministry of Fisheries, Strengthening Local Consulting Expertise,
and Conducting Pre-investment Studies. A diagnostic study of the Ministry of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy was carried out by project-financed consultants in 1988/89, as planned. The
recommendations of the study, however, were not implemented because of frequent changes of
leadership in the ministry.  Several other diagnostic studies were added to the project after
effectiveness, including the then Ministry of Female Affairs, Artisanat and Tourism, and the
Ministry of Equipment and Transport. There is no evidence that the results of these studies were
accepted by Government or that any reorganization took place as a result. With respect to
developing local consulting expertise, no consistent effort was made under the project to develop
these capacities through, for example, cooperative arrangements with well-established external
consultants, as was intended at project appraisal. However, some consulting contracts were
awarded to local firms and individuals, particularly in the area of computer technology. Pre-
investment studies for a follow-up operation were not conducted under the project.
E.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
21.   Implementation of the project was adversely affected by several factors. First, soon after
project effectiveness in late 1988, Mauritania entered a period of economic and financial instability
and social unrest, which diverted the Government's attention away from the adjustment process
which the project was designed to support. It was not until mid-1992 that Government was able to
refocus its attention on reforms and administrative changes and could begin to implement some
reform measures. Another factor which affected the project was institutional instability caused by
frequent changes in institutional structures or the creation of new ones. These changes caused
excessive staff rotations and instability in the administrative processes themselves. As a result,
project implementation suffered.  Third, supervision of the technical assistance and staff
development programs, which together represented 46 percent of the original Credit funding, was
complicated by the fact similar assistance and staff training were funded by other donors. These
programs were not well coordinated by the Government and largely escaped supervision efforts by
the Bank.
F.     Project Sustainability
22.    The administrative reforms already implemented are sustainable because they are based on
legally adopted regulations. However, reforms and administrative improvements initiated but not
completed are sustainable only if the Government becomes more committed to their implementation



7
and obtains qualified professional assistance to implement them. Even then, sustainability will be
seriously threatened if local staff capacity is not raised through integrated staff development
programs at the level of each ministry. In addition, logistic support is required to sustain the
renovated administrative structures (computers, software, peripherals, technicians). This needs to
be adequately financed and dedicated budget allocations made.
G.    Bank Performance
23.    Project preparation took well over two years, from issue of the IEPS in August 1985 to
negotiations in December 1988, a long period that provided adequate time for consensus building
and reaching agreement on policy measures and for developing action programs. Bank input into
this process was considerable. It included a comprehensive institutional assessment (IA) based on
wide-ranging interviews with key decision makers including the Presidency and several seminars
with Mauritanian stakeholders to agree on project objectives and reform requirements. Throughout
this process, relations with other donors (France, Germany, the European Union and the UNDP, in
particular) were good although their activities were not formally integrated in the design of the
project. Eventually, only France provided cofinancing for long-term technical assistance to the
Ministry of Finance. The SAR provided a detailed implementation schedule of major actions by
project component, which helped structure project supervision. Selected indicators for measuring
project success were included in the SAR but they were defined in terms of dates by which actions
were to be completed, not quantitative targets against which performance could be measured.
Legal covenants were not sufficiently specific to help check on project implementation.
24.    During more than six years of project implementation, from Credit effectiveness in
September 1988 to project completion in December 1994, there were seven full supervision
missions, an average of one mission per year. The first three missions, covering the first year and a
half of project implementation, were conducted by a senior public sector management specialist
who also prepared and appraised the operation. These missions provided valuable technical
assistance and advice during project start-up. Supervision generally covered all aspects of the
project; reporting was excellent and comprehensive (full supervision reports), and good follow-up
was provided as a matter of routine. Several missions by technical specialists supported the start-
up work during this period, providing expertise, inter alia, for developing the master plan for data
processing and the territorial development plan.
25.    The mid-term review was competently carried out in June/July 1991 by a three-person
team (public sector management specialist, financial analyst, training specialist). Following this
review, the scope of the operation was reduced and Credit amounts reallocated between categories.
The effort spent on supervision during the last few years of project implementation was clearly
inadequate: less than one mission per year, duration too short and missions inadequately staffed.
Mission reporting also fell short as full supervision reports were not prepared after the mid-term
review. The Resident Mission provided some logistic support to supervision missions and limited
follow-up after mission departure. On balance, supervision, particularly during the second half of
the project period, was inadequate for such a complex operation.



8
H.    Borrower Performance
26.   The Government participated actively in project preparation and, with the help of national
and local consultants, conducted a number of well-prepared pre-investment studies for
consideration by the Bank's appraisal team. The Project Coordination Unit was quickly set up at
effectiveness, and appropriately staffed and equipped. However, it did not have the clout needed to
move implementation forward and achieve results. From 1989 to 1991, progress reports of
sufficient detail were prepared semi-annually, as required by the Credit Agreement. Audit reports
for the first four years of project implementation were correctly prepared by a qualified external
auditor. There is no evidence that audit reports were prepared for 1993 and 1994.
1.     Assessment of Outcome
27.    Project outcomes are unsatisfactory. The operations of the Presidency have marginally
improved with the regular publication of the Journal Officiel and the reorganization of the public
procurement system. But there are no discernible improvements in the functioning of the Ministry
of Plan. Institutional or administrative improvements in the Ministry of Finance as a result of the
project are also limited. The customs service was visibly strengthened through the provision of
project-financed vehicles and communications equipment. Investment planning and programming,
external debt management, and budget preparation and execution improved slightly, helped by the
requirements of the PFP. Tax collection and management were strengthened with IMF assistance.
There was little or no improvement in investment analysis and aid coordination.
28.    Results of local staff training are unsatisfactory. The ministries supported by the project
failed to establish in-house capacities for staff development and continued to rely on offers of
training provided by other donors. Most of that training was long-term, conducted overseas, but it
was largely unplanned and uncoordinated so that the needs of the organizations were poorly served.
The project did assist in establishing a small local capacity for in-service training of administrative
staff at the ENA, as planned. It was initially successful but became moribund at project end as
course offerings responded poorly to demand and there were insufficient funds to operate the unit.
29.    Civil service reform was not achieved as planned. Studies and analyses were conducted
with project assistance but preciously few programs or measures were actually implemented as a
result. A few administrative measures were taken, largely a result of conditionalities tied to tranche
release conditionalities of Bank/IMF adjustment operations or under reform programs included in
successive PFPs.
30.   Implementation of the Economic and Financial Recovery Program benefited from the
project in the sense that the documents for presenting the Program to the 1987 Consultative Group
were prepared by consultants financed under the project.
31.    Reorganization plans for the Ministry of Fisheries were developed but not implemented.
The development of local consulting capacity through cooperative arrangements with foreign
consultants was not achieved. There were no pre-investment studies for a follow-up operation.



9
J.     Future Operation
32.    Although the Government may ask for additional IDA assistance to implement its
administrative reform program, a follow-up project of similar design should not be contemplated.
The relatively better record of implementing reforms in Mauritania within the framework of
structural or sectoral adjustment operations where disbursements can provide leverage for
achieving policy objectives argues against a free-standing technical assistance operation for
institutional reform. Experience in Mauritania also suggests that sector investment projects, such
as in education, have been more effective than this TA project in promoting reformns.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
33.    The following lessons may be drawn from this experience:
(a)    The Bank may find it difficult to be an absentee stakeholder in the process of
institutional change
Despite competent and detailed preparatory work by the Bank during project
design and preparation, systematic client consultation on policy issues and measures (an
initiative which was at the cutting edge of Bank-Borrower dialogue on institutional issues
at the time), the Government was not very effective in making the institutional change
process work.  In part this may be the result of our superficial knowledge of the
Mauritanian environment (such as, for example, the culture and internal workings of the
civil service) which led to faulty analyses. Other factors that played a role were
undoubtedly the frequent changes in key stakeholders (ministers, senior civil servants) and
the absence of physical investments directly linked to required policy changes, which
caused Government commitment to waver. The main reason for lack of success, however,
is that we were not involved in the implementation of the change process on a day-to-day
basis (as some bilateral donors are), and not easily available to provide advice and
assistance when needed. The question then becomes whether the Bank can afford to
become involved in designing far-reaching reforms on a quasi-absentee basis, using less
than perfect information, and supervising the implementation of these reforms on the basis
of one or two short missions per year.
(b)    Government's commitment to the change agenda and close attention to the
implementation process by the Bank and the Borrower are crucial to success
In spite of detailed preparatory work conducted by IDA during project
preparation, including an institutional assessment which was well received by decision
makers and widely discussed with stakeholders, there was a lack of leadership to actlally
implement the agreed program  of reforms.  One reason may be that the IDA-led
institutional assessment was not a shared diagnostic and that stakeholders did not feel
committed to the process. Another may be that project management was not strong enough
and did not have the political clout to sustain commitment to the change agenda. In
addition, political instability caused the Government to turn its attention away from the
project, only to refocus on the project when these difficulties abated. And finally, it would
seem that project design did not focus on how to manage the process of change, leaving



10
this largely to Government and Bank supervision missions to deal with during
implementation. Clearly, the related issues of uncertain commitment to change and poor
management of the change process dominated the implementation of this project. The
lesson is that persistent Government commitment to the change agenda and close attention
by both the Bank and the Borrower to the process of implementing this agenda are crucial
to success.
(c)    It is not possible to measure progress without clearly-defined indicators
As shown in this operation, objectives and performance indicators are often
intangible and difficult to quantify (e.g. "improve the performance of the Ministry of
Plan"), so that project outcomes may be difficult to measure. In cases like this, it would be
helpful to more carefully specify project inputs, develop detailed implementation plans
with target dates for both project inputs and expected outputs, and criteria for judging the
quality of these outputs. Evaluating the outputs could be done, for example, through
regular performance audits carried out by independent technical auditors. Both technical
assistance and staff training programs should be worked out in detail, with quantified and
dated inputs and outputs.
(d)    Freguent. consistent and well-structured supervision is a must.
Institutional development projects require intensive supervision, including a
considerable amount of advice and technical assistance, not only during project start-up
but throughout the implementation period. To do this, we should go beyond what is
normally defined as the Bank's statutory supervision responsibility and provide adequate
resources to support this supervision, i.e. higher than average supervision coefficients.
Like the Government, the Bank needs to have ownership of the supervision process which
translates into consistency and continuity in mission staffing, participation of seasoned
experts in supervision missions, and solid follow-up work from headquarters. Supervision
missions should carefully prepare detailed terms of reference including a supervision plan
that covers all aspects of the operation. Supervision plans should be communicated to the
Borrower in advance so that adequate preparations can be made on the Government's side
before the mission arrives in the field. And results of the supervision should be carefully
documented.



I1
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial      Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies                                                     X
Sector Policies                                                                     X
Financial Objectives                                                                X
Institutional Development                          X
Physical Objectives                                X
Poverty Reduction                                                                   X
Gender Issues                                                                       X
Other Social Objectives                                                             x
Enviromnental Objectives                                                            X
Public Sector Management                                           X
Private Sector Development                                         X
Likely        Unlikely        Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                                              X
Highly       Satisfactory   r  Deficient        Highly
Satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                                     X
Preparation Assistance                             X
Appraisal                                          X
Supervision                ,                                       x
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                     X
Covenant Compliance                                                X
Operation                                                          X
E. Assessment of Outcome                                               X



12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                  Purpose                 Year of    Status
Approval
Past Operaltions
Technical Assistance II To address broad spectrum of        FY83      Closed
(Cr. 1292)            institutional weaknesses, including
macroeconomic issues, sectoral
planning and implementation capacity,
institutional organization and public
enterprises.
Structural Adjustment  To support second phase of          FY87       Closed
Credit (Cr. 1812)     Government's Economic and Financial
Recovery Program for the 1985-88
period.
Following Operations    _
Public Enterprise     To strengthen Government's capacity   FY90      Ongoing
Technical Assistance   to formulate and implement a strategy
(Cr. 2167)            for rationalizing the public enterprise
sector.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification                                       August22, 1985
Preparation                                          October 9, 1986
Appraisal                 April 25, 1987             April 25, 1987
Negotiations              October 26, 1987           October 26, 1987
Board Presentation        December 1987              December 17, 1987
Signing                                              February 12, 1988
Effectiveness             March 1988                 September 15, 1988
Midterm Review                                       June 26, 1991
Project Completion        June 30, 1994              June 30, 1994
Closing                   December 31, 1994          December 31, 1994



13
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
::,''.'': ;','--,-- :: ,, - ~~~~~..   ..   . . .... . ...   .   .. . .   . . .   ,     , ''''--;9'. .   ..  . . 
_________________  FY8  FY8   FY90 FY9t    Y92 .FY93FY94  F'TY95,
Appraisal estimate         1.5    3.8    6.3       8.3     9.2    9.6    10.0    10.0
Actual                      0      1.6    3.0      4.9     6.7    8.5      8.9     9.5
Actual as % of estimate    0%     42%    48%    59%    72%    89%    89%    95%
Date of final disbursement  April 26, 1995



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Kev Implementation Indicators  in           Estimated                   Actual
SAR/President's Report
Services of the Presidency
Establishment of new streamlined                  1990                   Not Available
procedures for Council of Ministers.
Improved functioning of the Department of        1988/89               Partially achieved
Legislation
Establishment of the Bureau of Organization     Dec. 1988                    1990
and Methods (BOM) and development of
guidelines and procedures for its operations.
Improved procurement procedures due to          end 1988                  Feb. 1993
revised procurement legislation.
Economic Management
Strengthened capacitv in the Ministrv of
Economy and Finance and in the Central
Bank of Mauritania:
Sector reports on various macroeconomic        From 1988                 Not produced
issues produced regularly.
Quarterly reports on implementation of ERP.    From 1987                 Not Available
Reorganized Aid Coordination Department,        June 1988                 Sept. 1988
issuing quarterly reports using a project-
funded debt reporting system.
Clear budget procedures and circulars/forms,      1988                       1992
facilitating data input for Public Investment
Progzram.
Three-year rolling Public Investment           From 1988                  From 1992
Program updated yearly, consolidated
in estment budget produced annually.
Increased tax revenue due to revised public       1989                   Not Available
accounting framework, better intcgration of
tax asscssment data, more efficient use of tax
collectors, and better trained staff.
Dce elopment and execution of a training          1988           Nine staff of Ministry of Plan
program to strengthcn specialized skills of                      trained in two week seminars.
staff.                                   _______________  __________________



15
Key Implementation Indicators  in           Estimated                   Actual
SARlPresident's Report
Development and implementation of an              1988           Master plan developed in
economic and financial data processing                           1989/90. Plan implemented
master plan.                                                     in 1992.
Civil Service Reform
Streamlined administrative procedures and        1989/90         System established in 1991
establishment and implemenation of                               and gradually implemented in
standardized personnel management                                1993 to cover all civil
information systems.                                             servants.
Development and implementation of a long-       end-1990         Series of studies conducted in
term administrative reform program,                              1989. Some reform measures
including a series of studies to develop                         implemented in 1992 in
appropriate policies for civil service                           framework of PFP.
employment, career development,
compensation and training.
Establishment of a documentation center at    Not Specified      Documentation Center
the National School for Administration.                          established
Establishment of a training unit in the       Not Specified      Training Unit established at
National School for Administration.                              ENA in January 1993.
Decentralization
Strengthened capacity in Ministry of          Not Specified      Decentralization is being
Interior to supervise efficiently the                            implemented progressively in
functioning of local government institutions                     198 municipalities.
and monitor the proper execution of the
ongoing decentralization program.
Training for relevant Ministry and local       From 1988         Training seminars held as
government staff and preparation of annual                       needed.
training programs.
Institution Building
Diagnostic studies to assess needs, define      Dec. 1989        Reorganization plan for
institutional policies and goals, and develop                    Ministry of Fisheries prepared
and implement reorganization schemes for                         in 1989 but not implemented.
the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime
Economy and the offices of the Auditor-
General.



16
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
=_____           Component                          Study                      Status
1.      Core Government Functions  (a) Strengthening the Department of  Completed Oct.
(Presidency)                 Translation and Publication of      1992
Official Journal
(b) Assistance to BOM (6 Volumes)  June-Dec 1988
2.      Economic Management
(Ministry of Plan, Ministry of          Not available
Finance, Central Bank)
3.      Civil Service Reform         (a) Management Policies of Civil    July 1992
Servants (3 Volumes)
(b) Administrative Management of   August 1989
Civil Servants (8 Volumes)
(c) Reform of Management Policies   May/June 1989
of Civil Servants
4.      Local Government Reform    (a) Organization and Operation of    Completed July
Local Committees                   1991
5.      Other Reforms                (a) Strategies for the Promotion of    Completed 1994
Women, Artisanal and Tourism
(b) Technical Assistance Assessment  September 1990
(NATCAP)
(c) Organization of Sun:eillance and   1988
Fight Against Fraud
(d) Improvement of Public          1987
______________________________Enterprise Salary Structure



17
Table 7: Project Costs by Category
(Expressed in SDRs)
Category               Original        Revised         Actuai
Civil Works                           80,000        110,000         101,000
Equipment, vehicles, fuirniture,     480,000       2,100 000      2,321,500
materials, and supplies
Consultants' and experts'salaries  1,690,000       3,400,000      2,907,000
and salaries for BCIR staff
Training                           1,970,000        380,000         328,000
Operating Costs (excluding         1,700,000        900,000         792,000
salaries)
Refunding of Project Preparation   1,180,000        533,371         533,000
Advance 
Unallocated                          800,000        476,629         246,000
Total                              7,900,000       7,900,000      7,228,500



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA                   Description of Covenant              Covenant    Present   Original    Actual                       Comments
Reference                                                      Type         status     date        date
Article III      The Borrower declares its commitment to the  Project Imple-   C       NS          NS
para. 3.01       objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule   mentation
2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project under the overall coordination of
BCIR with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative,
training, economic planning and financial
management practices, and shiall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the
Project.
Article III      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  Procurement    C    NS          NS          Procurement carried out as agreed.
para. 3.02       procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the                                                                                                  m
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Article IIl      hi order to carry out the Project, the Borrower
para. 3.03       shall:
(a) at all times maintain BCIR with such    Project Inple-   C        NS         NS          BCIR maintained as agreed.
functions, responsibilities sand qualified and  mentation
experienced staff, including the head of BCIR,
in adequate numbers, all as shall be satisfactory
to the Association;
(b) (i) prepare annual Action Programs      Project Imple-   CP      Begin       1988       Action programs, budgets and
detailing for each Project component the    mentation                 10/31/88   1989        implementation plans not prepared for the
activities to be carried during the year, (ii) by                                 1990       second half of the project period.
October 31 of each year the Project is being                                      1991
implemented, submit said action programs and
the budget proposals related thereto to the
Association for its review and approval; and (iii) I               _



DCA                  Description of Covenant              Covenant    Present  Original    Actual                       Comments
Reference                                                     Type        status      date       date
implement said action programs as promptly as
possible.
Article HI       The borrower shall:
para. 3.04
(a) (i) establish within the President a Bureau of  Institutional    CD  12/31/88   6/30/91    An adviser and two senior staff appointed.
Organization and Methods by December 31,                                                    Satisfactory office space and work plan
1988, with functions, with functions and                                                    prepared.
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association
and with qualified and experienced staff in
adequate numbers;
(ii) prepare a progress report'on activities  Institutional    CD    12/31/91   NC          Due to delay in establishing BOM.
carried out by such Bureau and review said
report with the Association no later than July
30, 1991 with a view to assessing the Bureau's
operational efficiency; and
(iii) promptly implement all recommendations    Institutional    NC  NS         NS          Due to delay in establishing BOM.
resulting from said review:
(b) take all measures required to ensure that  Financial   C
instructional materials aimed at disseminating                       NS         NS
tax infornation to the public shall be sold and,
unless the Borrower and the Association agree
otherwise, at full cost;
(c) carry out the studies referred to under Part C   Studies  C      4/30/89    1989        Study on Personnel Management
(2) of the Project and submit to the Association                                            Information Systems - completed and
for its review and comments the interim reports
of said studies by April 30, 1989 and the final                                             implemented in 1991.
reports of thereof by February 28, 1990;                             4/30/89    1989        Studies on Civil Service Employment,
reports of thereof by February 28, 1990-,                      Career Development, Compensation and
Training - completed in 1989. Partially
implemented.
(d) ensure that the restructuring of the    Institutional    CP
departments responsible for planning, aid                            6/30/88                Restructuring of planning and aid
coordination and budgeting is fully complied                                                coordination not carnied out.



DCA                   Description of Covenant               Covenant    Present   Original    Actual                       Comments
Reference    T__e_                                                            status    date .      date
with by June 30, 1988, and
(e) no later than December 31, 1989, submit to   Institutional  C
the Association, for its approval, all proposals                       12t31/89   12/31/89   Proposals submi"ed but not implemented.
developed to carry out Part E (2) and (4) of the
Project.
Article IV       (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be    Accounts/  CP        Begin        1989       Audit reports for 1993 and 1994 not
para 4.01        maintained separate rccords and accounts     Audits                     1989        1990       submnitted.
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound                                       1991
accounting practices the operations, resources                                     1992
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of th'e Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in    Accounts/  CP      Begin       1989       Records for audited years available.               PQ
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for  Audits             1989        1990       Audit reports for 1993 and 1994 not                 o
the Special Account, audited for each fiscal                                       1991       submitted.
year, in accordance with appropriate auditing                                      1992
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association: (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months aftler
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which  Accounts/    CP
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made  Audits                  Begin       1989       Audit reports for 1993 and 1994 not
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the                         1989        1990       submitted.



DCA                   Description of Covenant              Covenant    Present   Original    Actual                       Comments
Reference                                                      Type         status     date        date
Borrower shall:                                                                   1991
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in                                        1992
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year
after the Association has received the audit for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such
records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals or payments out of the
Special Account.
Legend: C = Complied with
CP = Complied with partially
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = Not complied with



22
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title   Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
1.  OD 13.10                      Audit reports, including SOEs and Special Accounts
Borrower Compliance with Audit for this project were not received for 1993 and
Covenants                     1994. Therefore, compliance with OD 13.10 has
only been partial.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised             Actual
Stage of Project
Cycle         Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$    Weeks         US$
Through Appraisal       n.a.      n.a      n. a.     n.a    134.0    402.0
Negotiations            n. a.     n. a     n. a.     n. a     27.3      81.9
Supervision            87.8       n.a    102.5       n.a      70.4    211.2
Completion             14.0       n.a      14.0      n.a      10.0      30.0
TOTAL                    --       n.a       --       n.a    241.7    725.1
Note: Planned staffweeks prior to 1989 are not available due to data remapping
Assumes average cost of US$3,000 per staffwveek.



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project   Month   No. of   Days   Specialized  Implement,  Development                  Typcs of Problems
Cycle         /Ycar  Pcople   in        Staff Skills   Status      Objectives
_ _ _ _ Field_             _  _ _ _ _
Through Appraisal   09/85   5        14       PSM, FS,
PP, PM
01/86   2        6       PSM
03/86   2        2 1     PSM
07/86   2        7       PSM
10/86   2       7        PSM
Appraisal through    04/87   7       18       PSM, ME,
Board Approval                                Cs, GS,
_____________ ~~LEG
Board Approval      02/88    1       10       PSM                                     Cabinet reshuffle adds to delay in effectiveness.
through
Effectiveness
Supervision         12/88    l       8        PSM               1            2        No progress in external debt management and
civil service reform.
10/89    1      6        PSM               2             2        Lack of specialized skills on Bank team to
supervise project.
03/90    1       5       PSM               2             2        Debt Management - software problcms and
unclear responsibilities.
Civil Service Reform - new Director not
committed to reform program.



Performancc Rating
Stagc of Project    Montli  No. of   Days   Specialized   Implement.  Development                     Types of Problems
Cycle          /Ycar  Pcoplc    in        Staff Skills    Status      Objectives
_________ ________   _______F ield
06/91    3        14       PSM, FS,           2             2        Financial - rapid disbursements. Weak
TRG                                       implementation capacity to implement program
and delay in civil service reform.
02/92    1       6         PSM                2             2         Because of delay in civil service reform
program, will only be implemented partially.
02/93    1       6         PSM                2             2        Devaluation and inflation caused contractors to
appeal for upward review of contracts.
Issue of sustainability of project.
_______  ._ _ ()04/94    2      1 ()     PSM                2             3
Key: PSM - Public Scctor Manageimient Specialist; FS - Financial Specialist; PP - Project Planiniiig; PM - Personnel Management; ME - Macroeconomist CS -
Comipuler Specialist, GS - General Services; LEG - Legal; TRG - Training Spccialist



Appendix A
MALRITANIE
Projet de developpement institutionnel
administratif et de la reforme
(credit 1865 MAU)
iMIISSION DE SUPERVISION
AIDE ivENIOIRE
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    La mission de supervision finale du projet DIAR a ete effectuee par Nicole KLEIN,
specialiste en gestion des services publics (AFTCB) et Clotilde VALTER, consultant, du 24
avril au 3 mai 1994.
2.     La mission a rencontre les principaux responsables de toutes les composantes du projet.
La mission a egalement rencontre plusieurs membres du Gouvernement et notarnment MM.
Taki Ould SIDI, ministre du Plan, Abdellahi Ould ABDI, ministre de la fonction publique, de
la jeunesse et des sports, Sow Abou DEMBA, ministre de la justice ainsi que M. Khatar Ould
Cheikh AHMED, secr6taire d Etat a l'Etat-civil.
3.     La mission a travaille en etroite collaboration avec M. Ahmedou Ould MOHAMED
SULTANE, directeur de la fonction publique et coordonnateur du projet depuis le 15 mars
1994, a la suite du deces de NI. Moustapha Ould KHALIFA.
4.     S'agissant de la derniere mission de supervision d'un projet dont lachevement est
prevu le 30juin 1994, ont et abordes au cours des entretiens a la fois les objectifs initiaux du
projet, les actions engagees depuis sa mise en oeuvre en s'attachant plus particulierement a
celles realisees depuis un an, les operations en cours ainsi que celles pouvant etre financees sur
un eventuel reliquat de credit.
II.    COMMENIENTAIRES SlCR LES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
Services de la Presidence
5.     Preparation du conseil des rninistres et des decisions du Gouvernement. Malgre
une reelle reflexion et plusieurs etudes sur ce point, les actions mises en oeuvre restent tres
insuffisantes, selon l'avis meme d un certain nombre de hauts fonctionnaires mauritaniens
rencontres par la mission. Des instructions en ce sens ont d'ailleurs ete donnees au
Gouvernement par le President de la Republique.
6.     Cornnission centrale des marches. Le decret portant r6glementation des marches
publics a && signe le 10 janvier 1993 et publie au Journal officiel du 15 fevrier. Le guide
pratique des marches publics est en preparation; un seminaire de formation doit se tenir en juin
prochain avec la participation d'un expert de la Banque Mondiale suite a l'engagement pris a
l'occasion de la mission de supervision effectuee en fevrier 1993. Un an apres la mise en
oeuvre de la nouvelle reglementation, une reflexion est d'ores et deja en cours afin d'ameliorer
encore le dispositif.



- 2 -
7.     Cour des Comptes. L'ancien contr6le d'Etat a et transforme avec l'appui du projet
en Cour des Comptes par deux lois promulguees en janvier 1993, l'une creant la Cour et
l'autre definissant le statut de ses membres. Le texte fixant les condicions du recrutement des
membres de la Cour est attendu dans les semaines qui viennent. En I'absence de statut des
comptables publics, la nomenclature du nouveau plan comptable, pourtant en vigueur depuis le
ler janvier 1992, n'a pu s'appliquer et aucun compte public n'a 6r6 depose.
8.     Bureau organisation et methodes. Le decret fixant les attributions et l'organisation
du BOM a ete signe. Il existe desormais, au sein des services du Premier ministre, une
structure en mesure de remplir des fonctions d'etudes, de conseil et de formation pour
['ensemble de I'administration mauritanienne. Des travaux tres pertinents ont d'ores et deja ete
menes. Toutefois cet organisme ne pourra v6ritablement assurer la mission qui lui est devolue,
et qui est particulierement indispensable a l'administration mauritanienne que lorsque des
cadres de haut niveau viendront completer l'equipe de qualite actuellement en place dont
l1effectif est tres insuffisant.
III.    GESTION ECONOMIQIU1E ET FINANCIERE
11.    Direction du plan. Le projet avait fixe comrne objectif le renforcement de la capacite
de ['administration A prendre en charge les actions de programrnation, de suivi des projets et de
coordination de ['aide exterieure. La direction du plan dispose desormais d'un programme
d'investissements pluriannuel (PIP), d'un fichier des projets permettant A la lois d'etablir le
Budget Consolide d'Investissements (BCI) ainsi que le suivi de chacun des projets. Ces outils
constituent un progres important, ils peuvent neanmoins etre encore ameliores afin notamment
de pouvoir suivre les conditions de l1ex6cution des projets par rapport A l'echeancier initial.
12.    Direction de l'informnatique. Le schema directeur informatique a ete elabore et
approuve par le Gouvernement. Sa mise en oeuvre n'a cependant pas ete lancee en l'absence
de financements.
13.    Direction de la dette exterieure. Comme cela etait prevu, un arrete est intervenu pour
fix.r les conditions de la gestion de la dette. Cependant, meme si la mise en place de structures
et de procedures prevues A cet effet ont permis d'ameliorer effectivement les conditions de cette
gestion, le texte reglementaire, en n'abordant qu'une partie du dispositif ne repond que
partiellement aux objectifs fixes. Comme l'a reconnu le ministre du plan lors de son entretien
avec la mnission, il serait souhaitable-de mieux formaliser les mesures effectivement mises en
oeuvre. La mise en place d'un logiciel de suivi de la dette n'a toujours pas ete operee en
I absence des financements necessaires a la formation des personnels.
14.    Direction des douanes. Elle a tres largement beneficie des credits du projet DIAR
depuis son lancement: prise en charge de vehicules et de materiel de bureau - A hauteur du
quart du total des credits affectes A ce type de depenses-ainsi que de materiels de
cormrmunication - A hauteur des trois cinquiemes des depenses totales d'agencement et
d' installation.



-3 -
IV.    GESTION DES PERSONNELS DE L ETAT
15.    Le svsteme de gestion informatisee des personnels de I'Etat: la saisie des fiches de
chacun des agents est en voie d'achevement. Pres de 15 700 dossiers sur un total de 18 000
etaient saisis au 2 mai 1994, accusant un retard de pres de 7 mois. La totalite des fiches
devraient ecre saisies au cours des toutes prochaines semaines. Restera cependant encore en
chantier l'interface avec le fichier de la solde dont la realisation est liee a la mise en oeuvre du
schema directeur informatique.
16.    La reforme de la fonction publique, entamee avec la loi portant statut general des
fonctionnaires du 18 janvier 1993, semble marquer une pause. Les d6crets d'application n'ont
toujours pas et pris. La reforme des remunerations et du regime indemnitaire se heurte A de
nombreuses difficultes liees tant a la complexite du dispositif actuellement en vigueur, qu'aux
objectifs ambitieux de ce projet et aux couts ainsi generes.
17.    Le centre de documentation de l'ENA a beneficie en 1993 de plus de 7 000 000 UM
qui ont perrmis d'ameliorer les conditions de classement et de reprographie.
V.    ACTIONS PRIORITAIRES A FINANCER AVEC LE SOLDE DU CREDIT
18.    Contrairement aux informations qui avaient ete donnees a la mission, et apres
verification des comptes avec le comptable du projet, la situation est telle que, non seulement
aucune action indispensable pour terminer les operations engagees ne peut etre lancee mais
toute une serie d'actions programmees en 1994 pour assurer la perennite des reformes
entreprises ont da etre abandonnees. La mission regrette que, faute de credits, ne puisse etre
utilise le logiciel de gestion de la dette exterieure, ni elabor l' interface indispensable entre le
fichier de la solde et le fichier de la fonction publique.
V1.   ADMINISTRATION DU PROJET
19.    La longue maladie puis le deces du coordonnateur du projet ont ralenti l'execution du
projet. La mission espere que la designation d'un nouveau coordonnateur permettra de cl6turer
le projet dans de meilleures conditions.
20.    Les effectifs du bureau de.coordination du projet ont &6 reduits dans les conditions
prevues. II reste maintenant quatre personnes: un secretaire administratif, une secr6taire, un
chauffeur et un comptable.
VII.   LES SUITES DU PROJET
21.    Le projet DIAR correspondait a un veritable besoin du Gouvernement et de
I'administration mauritaniens. Le volet equipement - vehicules surtout et informatique -a et
largement realise bien que les depenses necessaires A la maintenance des materiels, notamment
informatiques. n'aient pas toujours et prevues. Le volet formation a permis la realisation
d'operations multiples mais tres insuffisamrnent coordonnees entre elles et avec les autres
bailleurs de fonds.



- 4 -
22.    Comme l'a suggere le ministre du plan, a l'valuation finale du projet effectu6e par la
banque devra correspondre une evaluation etablie par le Gouvernement mauritanien.
23.    Beaucoup reste a faire en Mauritanie en matiere de developpement institutionnel. Les
modalites de l'appui devront sans doute etre redefinies. 11 s'agirait de mieux d6finir les
priorites en choisissant quelques administrations clefs telles que le plan, les finances, le
developpement rural et les ministeres sociaux de la sante et de 1'education et de mieux
coordonner les appuis multiples de tous les bailleurs de fonds dans ce domaine. Les modalites
de l'intervention seraient egalement appelees A evoluer dans le sens d'une generalisation de la
formation action. Dans ce cadre, le BOM pourrait pleinement remplir les missions de
coordination, d'initiative et d'impulsion, qui lui reviennent, sous lautorite du Premier ministre.



Appendix B
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
The Prime Minister's Office
Secretariat General
EVALUATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT'
(Credit 1865-MAU)
AND PROPOSALS FOR ITS CONSOLIDATION
October 1994
IThis is based on an interim report prepared by the Bureau of Organization and Methods (BOM).
A final report is under preparation and will be entered in the project file.






EVALUATION OF THE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1865-MAU)
AND PROPOSALS FOR ITS CONSOLIDATION
1.    Context
In 1987, an agreement was signed between the Government of Mauritania and the World
Bank for the financing of a Management Development Project designed to help reorganize the
public administration system and support the implementation of the Government's economic and
financial recovery programs.
The project is nearing completion after almost seven years of implementation. This report
analyzes the results of the project's interventions and presents some ideas for its sustainability.
2.     Objectives
Funding made available by the IDA Credit allowed the project to:
  give the principal decision making center of Government the means to prepare,
program, implement and control the Government's actions
*  strengthen the Ministry of Plan's capacity for planning, programming, analysis and
management
*  improve the management of the external debt
*  develop and implement a master plan for data processing in the Ministry of Finance;
*  support the decentralization of Government functions to the regional, departmental and
municipal levels
*  develop and implement new policies and programs for civil service management
The project would also implement specific measures to reorganize the Ministry of
Equipment, the Ministry of Women's Affairs, Artisanat and Tourism, and the Ministry in charge
of General Control of the State.
3.    Analysis of Results
Expenditures.
The following table summarizes the level of financing, by project component, as of May
31, 1994.



-2-
Table 1: Level of Financing by Project Component
(in UM million)
Component                    Disbursements         % of total
(UM million)
Civil service management                       342                 44.3
Economic and financial management              229                 29.7
Support for decentralization                   104                 13.5
Office of the Presidency                        79                 10.2
Cours des comptes                               10
Women Affairs, Artisanat, Tourism                8                  2.3
Ministry of Equipment                            1
Total                                       772
It is noted that almost 45 percent of total spending was for civil service reform, almost 30
percent for improving economic and financial management and almost 25 percent for the
Presidency and decentralization of Government functions. Credit disbursements by category of
expenditure are summarized below:
Table 2: Credit Disbursements by Category of Expenditure
(in UM million)
Category of expenditure          Amount disbursed        % of total
(UM million)
Studies and consultants                        339                 43.9
Office equipment and supplies                  234                 30.3
Computer equipment                             71                   9.2
Training                                       82                  10.7
Operating costs                                45                   5.9
Total                                       772                100.0
In sum, the bulk of project expenditures was for civil service reform and strengthening
economic and financial managementf In contrast, training and decentralization received only
marginal support from the project.
Analysis by Project Component.
(a) Civil Service management. The four sub-components of this program
(computerization of personnel records, revision of civil service policies, skills upgrading programs,
and administrative improvements) are at different levels of implementation. A new computer
system for the civil service has been designed but has not yet been put into operation. This
requires the installation of an interface with the payroll records of the Ministry of Finance which
has not been done because the data processing master plan has not been implemented. It is noted
that the personnel management units in other ministries also need to be computerized.



-3-
With respect to civil service policy, a new statute governing civil servants and contractual
personnel has been adopted by Parliament. The regulations for applying the new statute are still
being developed. Reform of the civil service pay scales and indemnities has not yet been done.
A civil service training unit has been set up at the National School for Public
Administration (ENA) and its documentation center has been improved.
In summary, the civil service component has, in spite of progress in some areas, not been
implemented. Preparatory work is still ongoing and most planned actions remain to be executed.
(b) Economic and Financial Management. In addition to a significant level of technical
assistance financed by the French cooperation, this component has received project support in the
form of office equipment and computers, and short-terrn consulting services in specific specialized
areas such as taxes and customs. In terms of actual reform measures, the project contributed to the
following:
* development of a permanent planning system
*  reorganization of the national investment commission
* preparation of a new accounting code
 completion of the tax register
* preparation of a reorganization plan for the directorate of the budget
A number of measures have not been implemented due to lack of financing. They include:
* computerization of debt management
* improvements in public housing policies
* implementation of the master plan for data processing at the Ministry of Finance
Still to be done are (i) strengthening the planning function, particularly in sectoral
ministries, and (ii) improving budget preparation and execution. In summary, some reform
measures that were undertaken at the beginning of the project have been implemented; others were
not because of lack of financing.
(c) Support for Decentralization and the Registrv Office. The project, with additional
support from the French Cooperation, has updated the laws and regulations governing the
municipalities and has assisted in the dissemination of this information. In addition, the project has
financed the cost of upgrading six senior staff, a study on municipal planning, and equipment for
the registry office.
(d) Services of the Presidencv. Implementation of the reform measures undertaken at the
level of the Presidency is generally satisfactory. Legislation for public procurement has been
revised and the Central Tender Board now operates under updated procedures. This work was



4-
mostly carried out by national consultants. The directorate of legal affairs, translation and
publication of the Official Journal has been provided with photo-composition equipment (financed
by France) which facilitates the regular publication of the Official Journal on a 15-day schedule.
The decree establishing the structure and responsibilities of the Bureau of Organization and
Methods (BOM) has been signed. The BOM has the capacity to conduct studies, provide advice,
and train staff, and has begun to function with technical assistance from Tunisia. A presidential
decree defining the operating modalities for the council of ministers has been developed with the
help of Tunisian experts, and signed. These positive results need to be reinforced by:
*  dissemination of public procurement rules and regulations
*  strengthening of the legal system
*  using the BOM's capacity, particularly in the areas of administrative reforms and
procedures
*  strengthening the process of consultation between and within sectoral ministries
4.     Conclusion
In summary, the Development Management Project was designed to carry out a diagnostic
of the Mauritanian administration, develop new tools for human resource management (the civil
service), strengthen financial resource management (Finance), improve coordination between the
center and the municipalities (Plan), strengthen the functions of the Presidency, and establish a
capacity for upgrading the competencies of civil servants.
However, the project has not made an impact on the day-to-day functioning of the
Mauritanian administration which is still inefficient and whose standard of service is not yet
acceptable. It is therefore important that the investments made by this project continue to be
supported under a follow-up operation.
5.     Proposal for a follow-up operation
Further support for institutional strengthening would need to focus on two aspects: (i)
completion of the reform measures initiated under this ongoing project, and (ii) deepening of the
reforms already underway and identification of additional reforms.
(a) Completion of reform measures initiated under the ongoing operation include:
With respect to civil service management: (i) reform of pay scales and indemnities, (ii)
implementation of the interface with the Ministry of Finance payroll, and (iii) reorganization of the
directorate of civil service and the units responsible for personnel management in sector ministries.
With respect to economic and financial management: (i) computerization of debt
management, (ii) revisions in the housing policy, (iii) implementation of the master plan for data
processing in the Ministry of Finance, (iv) setting up planning units in sectoral ministries, (v)
reorganizing the directorate of the budget, and (vi) strengthening financial control.



-5-
(b) Deepening of reforms already underway would consist of:
  Administrative reforms for certain key ministries (Plan, Finance, Rural Development,
Education, Health)
*  Improving administrative procedures through the introduction of up-to-date methods,
simplification of procedures, standardization of documents, and efficiency
improvements
* Expanding training and upgrading of civil servants through an analysis of training
needs at the level of each ministry, better use of existing training capacity at EN, and
organized follow-up of trainees after completion of training. A program of this kind
would lead to the establishment of a permanent training and upgrading capacity for
civil servants at the national level.
New reform measures would focus on disengaging the state from some economic sectors,
decentralizing government services, and improving the coherence between public and private
sectors. Emphasis should be placed on:
* private sector promotion through improved policies
* introduction and generalization of program-contracts for public-sector enterpnses,
based on performance indicators and consistent evaluation of results
* development of a master plan for decentralization that aims to transfer full
responsibility for government actions to the regional authorities
The next project should also intervene in the information sector with the long-term
objective of developing a national plan.






IBRD 25382
12                                                   MOROCCO   r
MAURITANIA                                                                                                     RMER               ALGERIA
POPULATION DENSITY BY REGION                                                                                                      SAIIAEArS
PERSONS PER SQUARE KILOMETER                                                                                            MAURITANIAj
0   <1Noaco$
1- -3'                                                                                                                                   MALI _
THE SENEGAL                  "'NIE
3- c6                                                                                                         GAMBIA    -                   - ,KIGER
GLJER4J3 =---IrKA~, i
-28                                                                                         M O R O C C6O                      BISSALU GUINEA ,     S,  SW
PAVED ROADS                                            __LEONE                                                                       (GTE
28'       LEONE~~~~J~~j DIVOIRE GAAt
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION--------[               ------2                                                             IBERIA     ~     HN
LATERITE/EARTH ROADS
- TRAILS
-~--~ RAILROADS                                                                                                                          ALGERIA
4      INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
PORTS
REGION BOUNDARIES
-  - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Tm         Bsr-MoDghrein                           ., 
- - - - - INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE                           A/-
FORMER SPANISH SAHARA                                                                                                                             -
(WESTERN SAHARA)
SPANISH'  
2A'                                                                                                                                                               24'j 
0  50 100 150 200 250                            SAHARA
I    I     I    I     I    I                                                I                                                 .I
KILOMETERS
'    FDerik                                    .,
Q tl 0                        --------------  -~~~~~~,             
Loukate --       -----------                                                  MALI
Nouad       aou,o
La Guer(                                                                  Ouadane                                                         I
O8,iChinguetti"
200                                                                                                       I             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20"
-20                                                            Seguelil                                                                            |20
C                                     - ~~~~~~~   ~     ~    ~~~~Tidiikia  Tichitt  ~  
NOUAKCHOTT rra /
Boufili.it           Cangar6, odei . 
/   >                      >'  ~~~~~~ ~~~TAGANT      .                                         Oualota
dTachmdakett
-.Aioun el AtroussI
'ON6mo
16 Kodi    M'BN                                                                                   Timbedrj                                16-
16'                                                                                Mound6re         '       Ayr n Nbork,
Ta * 4libaby b ~~~~~Nioro du SahelMALI
Dak  9ourai
TI,. b-,ndr-- color d-o-,o-r and any othe-r-- ,rr -ao sh-w
S   E   N         E   G     A    L          C. mopS-    0 o asp9 , ote par- o fTI-e World. B-                           nonp ory
SE N E G A L~~~~~~~ (                                                ,dgnnesa on sIhe lealo s,onss of ony' err.tosy. or ony' endorsenenort
16'                                             12-                                             8
NOVEMBER 1 993









IMAGING
Report No:      14626
Type: ICR



