Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7012-MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL RFPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 23, 1987
Afrifa Region
Sahelian Department
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1.00 = UM 76.0
UM 1.00 = US$ .013
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM            Bureau' Organisation et Methodes (Organization
and Methods Bureau)
BCIR            Bureau for Coordination of Institutional Reform
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (Central Fund
for Economic Cooperation)
CCIR            Committee for Coordination of Institutional Reform
CMSN            Comite Militaire de Salut National (Military Committee
for Natior.xl Liberation)
CNI-ATCT        National Dat4-processing Center - Tunisian Agency for
Technical Cooperation
ENA             Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National
Administration School)
ERP             Economic Recovery Program
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (Fund for Aid and
Cooperation)
MCS             Ministry of Civil Service, Labor, Youth and Sports
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIIT           Ministry of Interior, Information and
Telecommunications
MFME            Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy
PE              Public Enterprises
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
RMSM            Revised Minimum Standard Model
SDR             Special Drawing Right
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                             i-iii
I.  BACKGROUND ................................................    1
Introduction ..............................................1 
The Economy ....................................1
II.  PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ...................................    2
Analysis of the Issues ...... ...............                     2
Government's Reform Efforts ...............................    7
Reform Management ....... .................                       8
IDA and Other Donor Support for Public
Sector Management   ..................................          9
III.  THE PROJECT .............................................        10
Project Objectives ............        ............................   10
Project Description .......................................   11
Support to the Presidency .....      .........................  11
Economic and Financial Management .................   .....   11
Civil Service Reform ......       .............................   13
Municipal Development ..................................   14
Preparation of Additional Reforms        .....................   14
Project Management ....... ....               .    .........   15
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ....        ..............  15
Project Cost   .            ............ 15
Financing Plan .....             ........  17
Procurement .....              ........  17
Disbursements .............   18
Accounts and Audit .......           ..........    19
This report was based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Messrs./Mmes. L. de Merode (mission leader), J. Albert, B. Nunberg,
J.Y. Maillat and Mpoy-Kamulayi (Bank) and E. Berg and J.C. Bosse
(consultants) which visited Mauritania during April/May 1987 to appraise
the Project. Mmes. M. Kalina and M. Dauharry provided secretarial support.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only in the performance
of their official duties.lIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........       ......... .......   19
Annual Action Programs and Reporting .......................   19
Project Management .......................................   20
Training                ....... .    20
Local Skills Mobilization ..............................   21
Other Technical Assistance ..............................   21
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS   ....................................   21
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION    .............................   22
Agreements Reached ................... ..... .. ......    22
Recommendation       .................................. . .. ......   23
ANNEXES
Annex I:    Implementation Schedule ............ ...........     24
Annex II:   Project Cost Tables
Table 1:  Project Cost Sulmary ...............    26
Table 2:  Project Components by Year .........  27
Table 3:  Summary Accounts Cost Summary ......  28
Annex III:  Summary Disbursement Schedule .        ...........   29
Annex IV:   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Selected Indicators for Measuring
Project Success ....... ............ . . ..30
Annex V:    Consultant Services Requirements    .......          33
Annex VI:   Organization Charts ............ .... .......        35
Anrex VII:  Government Employment .......................*  37
Annex -ylII: Distribution of Technical Assistance ..... ...  38
Annex IX:   Selected Documents Available in Project File ...  39
M4ap: IBRD No. 16452 R



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Implementing
Agencyt             Bureau for Coordination of Institutional Reform
Credit Amount:       SDR 7.9  million (US$10.0 million)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:         FAC (France), US$0.4 million equivalent
Project
Description:         The  project  will  finance  expertise,  equipment  and
training for key institutions and processes in order
to: (i) improve core government management capabilities
within the Presidency, in the areas of interministerial
decision-making,  legal   and   regulatory   oversight,
procurement oversight, and organization and management;
(ii) improve economic management, through strengthening
of   public   expenditure    management   and    fiscal
administration,  and   through  general   institutional
strengthening of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MEF); (iii) improve civil service productivity through
the    rehabilitation    of    personnel       management
institutions, processes and information systems, and
through implementation of the first phase of reform
for civil service pay, employment, career management
and   training    policies;   (iv)    strengthen    the
institutional framework for local administration and
improve the capacity of the Ministry of Interior,
Information and Telecommunications (MIIT) to oversee
and coordinate municipal development management; and
(v) create a framework for the continued implementation
of administrative reform at core, sector and local
levels. A Bureau for Coordination of Institutional
Reform (BCIR) was established in December 1986 to
manage the project and its director was appointed at
the same time. French bilateral co-financing has been
made available in area (i).



- il -
Estimated Costs:
2 Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total exchange
US$ 000 -------
A. Presidency
Legislative Department &                      164      511       676     76
Council of Ministers Service
Organization & Methods Bureau                 70       237       306     77
Central Procurement Committee                 24       110       134     82
B. Economic and Financial Management
Public Expenditure Management                414    1,371    1,786       77
Fiscal Administration                         192      736       928     79
MEF Institutional Strengthening               140      232       371     62
C. Civil Service Reform
Personnel Management Rehabilitation          365    1,325    1,689       78
Civil Service Policy Reform                  152       456       608     75
D. Municipal Development                         157      472       630     75
E. Preparation of Additional Reform              270      810    1,080      75
F. Prolect Management                            992    1,143    2,136      54
Baseline Costs                             2,941    7,403   10,345       72
Physical Contingencies                        85       319       405     79
Price Contingencies                          381       249       630     40
Total Project Costs                        3,408    7,972   11,380       70
Financing Sources:
Local   Foreign  Total
----  US$ million ----
IDA                                        2.4       7.6     10.0
Government                                 1.0         -       1.0
FAC (France)                                 -       0.4      0.4
Total                                      3.4       8.0      11.4
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
----US$ million-----------------------
Annual            1.5        2.3      2.5       2.0      0.9       0.4      0.4
Cumulative        1.5       3.8       6.3       8.3      9.2       9.6     10.0



- iii -
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project will begin to  address long term issues  of
the  cost-effectiveness  of  public  institutions   and
provide a framework and establish a process for public
administration   reform.    It   will   notably    help
institutionalize and internalize management capacities
in areas critical to structural adjustment, which today
are being carried out on an ad-hoc basis and with a
large   and   unsustainable   element   of    technical
assistance. The main risks are that: (i) the political
commitment  behind  public  sector  management   reform
waivers; (ii) reform management requirements exceed
local capacities; (iii) civil service resistance blocks
implementation;  and  (iv)   it  proves  difficult   to
identify  technical   assistance  with   the   required
expertise acceptable to Mauritania. The Government's
recent actions --studying the reorganization of the MEF
and civil service management and assigning a highly
qualified   project    director--    demonstrate    its
commitment. 3upport for reform among high-level civil
servants was tested prior to negotiations through a
reform-launch  seminar.   Risks   will,  moreover,   be
attenuated   by    having    flexible    and    modular
implementation   arrangements   through   annual   work
programs and by building management assistance into the
project. Finally, effectiveness of technical assistance
would be obtained by maximizing the use of twinning
arrangements and of local consultants, in particular
through a local skills mobilization scheme which is an
integral part of project design.
Economic Rate of Return: not applicable
Memorandum of the President: No. P-4683-AAU
Map: IBRD No. 16452 R
AF5CO
November 23, 1987



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.        The project  originated from  the Government's  request in  early
1985 for assistance in the management nf its Economic Recovery Program
(ERP). This led to an administrative assessment carried out by IDA in late
1985. Following the endorsement of the general conclusions of that
assessment by Government in March 1986, project preparation was initiated
by the Mauritanian authorities with IDA assistance. At the same time,
Government's commitment to administrative reform became an integral part of
the Letter of Development Policy of the first Structural Adjustmetnt Credit
(Cr. 1812-MAU) approved on  June 2, 1987,  A Project Preparation  Facility
(P-360) was approved in July 1986 for US$0.5 million. in December 1986,
the Government appointed a Coordinator for Institutional Reform to assume
overall responsibility for administrative reform and specifically for
management of the proposed project. Appraisal took place in April-May
1987. A second PPF request for an additional US$1 million is expected
shortly.
The Economy
2.        Endowed with modest natural resources in relation tc a population
of about 1.7 million, Mauritania has been through markedly contrasted
phases of  economic development  since independence  in 1960.   An  initial
decade of rapid growth (8 percent per annum) was followed by a long period
of economic decline caused by drought, the fall of international prices for
its main export (iron ore), the war over the Western Sahara combined with
inappropriate economic policies  and management weaknesses.   In 1984,  the
economic situation reached  a critical level.   Domestic cereal  production
covered only 20-25 percent of consumption and was only 40 percent of the
level of 15 years before while mining output was only 65 percent of what it
had been 10 years earlier.   Foreign reserves were dwindling, with  arrears
on external  debt payments  in  excess of  US$100 million.   External  debt
outstanding amounted to US$1.7 billion or roughly 250 percent of GDP.   The
consolidated budget deficit, before budgetary aid, amounted to more than 20
percent of GDP. Despite very high external aid levels (US$170 per capita
from 1980 to 1984), a vigorous stabilization and economic adjustment
program had become unavoidable.
3.        In 1985, the new Government adopted an Economic Recovery  Program
(ERP) consisting of a coherent set of economic and financial policies to
stabilize the economy  and extract maximum  growth from domestic  resources
and external aid. The ERP involves the implementation of:



-2-
(a) flexible exchange rate and strict credit policies;
(b) progressive liberalization of pricing and marketing policies;
(c) public enterprise (PE) reform to reduce losses and subsidies, to
establish a performance-oriented institutional framework for PEs,
and to start rehabilitation of key PEs;
(d) fiscal measures to curb public expenditures and to increase tax
revenues and cost recovery for public services;
(e)  sector strategies, in particular for agriculture (including  food
aid), fisheries, banking and energy; and
(f) public administration reform to strengthen economic management
and to improve civil service productivity and general government
effectiveness.
Initial implementation of the ERP has been supported by two Stand-by
agreements with the IMF which have been successfully completed and a third
which is under implementation, two debt reschedulings under the auspices of
the Paris Club, and the recently approved Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAL).
II. PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Analysis of the Issues
4.        As it  embarked  on  the  ERP  in  1985,  the  Government  became
increasingly aware of the severe institutional inadequacies it would have
to contend  with in  carrying  out key  economic recovery  measures.   Past
weaknesses had severely eroded the legal and organizational basis for the
functioning  of  Government.    Adequate  data,  analytical   capabilities,
appropriate  processes   and   procedures  were   largely   lacking.    The
administration, while large  and costly, was  mostly dependent on  external
assistance for the  accomplishment of  critical tasks.  This posed  serious
problems in terms of the general functioning of Government and particularly
for the internalization and sustainability of economic policy reforms at
the core of the ERP.
5.        Realization of Mauritania's development management inefficiencies
induced considerable reflexion among high-level technocrats and politicril
figures. While anxious to take prompt corrective action wherever possible,
the leadership is also wary of repeating the mistakes of past hasty and
top-down administrative reforms which are largely perceived to have failed.
For instance, from 1967-1982, the planning function has been reorganized 14
times without  much tangible  benefit.   As a  result, the  Government  has
decided to undertake reform in a systematic and phased way and to adopt an
approach involving strong leadership and the active participation of  those
affected.



6.        Government's  priority  areas  for  reform,  many  of  which  are
incorporated within the ERP and the SAL policy framework, are: core
government miarnagement functions involving the Presidency; economic and
financial management mainly focussing on the Ministry of Economy and
Finance; civil service productivity and general personnel management; and
decentralization of administrative functions to local level municipalities.
At the same time, the Government is eager to establish a strong operational
capacity for reform management, including mechanisms for coordination,
consultation, decision-making and monitoring of implementation.
7.        Functions of  the  Presidency.  Since  the  end of  the  civilian
regime in 1975, the country has been governed through a succession of
constitutional charters. The current charter vests both legislative and
executive authority with the Military Co:mittee for National Liberation
(CMSN), wshose President is  the Chief of State.   The latter also  presides
over the executive branch  of government.  Major  decisions go through  the
Council  of  Ministers  and  are  submitted  for  approval  to  the   CMSN.
(Organization  charts  for  the  Government  are  included  in  Annex  VI.)
Legislation takes the form of ordonnances, while executive decisions are
decrets, arretes, decisions and circulaires, in decreasing order of
importance.
8.        The existing  legal  framework  fails to  delineate  the  spheres
within which the above legal instruments are operative and to relate them
to levels  of  authority.   Legal oversight  capacity  in  the  Legislative
Department in the Presidency is extremely weak: there is no basis for
systematic  delegation   of  authority   and   little  to   guard   against
inconsistencies within and between the  various laws and regulations.   The
poorly trained staff of the Presidency and the CMSN are presented daily
with a large number of decisions ranging from the critical to the trivial.
For instance, all recruitmznts into the civil service, regardless of rank,
are approved  by  the President.   Conversely,  an analysis  of  legal  and
regulatory legislation over the last ten years carried out in the
administrative assessment revealed several instances where a circulaire,
taken at a low level in the administration, contradicted an ordonnance
which had been approved at the highest level.
9.        Although ultimate decision-making authority  lies with the  CMSN,
the Council of Ministers, presided over by the President and also including
the  Secretary-General  of  the  Government,  plays  a  critical  role   in
initiating, developing,  negotiating, and  monitoring policies.   There  is
effectively no other mechanism for policy coordination within the executive
branch. While the Presidency includes a Council of Ministers Service to
support the functioning of the Council, its authority, staffing and
procedures limit it to providing only minimal secretarial support. As a
result, proposals submitted to the Council for decision are often poorly
prepared  with   limited  prior   consultation  or   technical  input   and
communicated late to participants. A large proportion of proposals before
the Council are rejected as insufficiently prepared and have to be
resubmitted. M4onitoring of the implementation of these decisions is weak
and feedback nonexistent.



- 4 -
10.       The   Presidency   also    carries   out   certain    centralized
administrative functions.   The  Central  Procurement Board  (CPB)  in  the
Presidency oversees the Government's procurement process. Above certain
bidding thresholds, it reviews procurement decisions taken by ministerial
procurement committees.   Because of  lapses and  vagueness in  procurement
laws and  regulations,  lack  of  training  of  procurement  officers,  and
imprecisions in the  jurisdiction of the  Board, considerable time  elapses
between  the  central  and   the  ministerial  levels,   at  the  cost   of
corresponding delays  in project  implementation.  In  addition, there  are
other responsibilities within the Presidency, such as public sector
auditing and a priori financial control which the Government is also keen
to revitalize in a later phase of the reform program.
11.       Economic and Financial Management.   The Ministry of Economy  and
Finance (MEF)  plays  a  central role  in  macroeconomic  management.   Its
functions include planning (notably investment programming), budgeting, aid
coordination,  financial  oversight   of  public  enterprises,   government
accounting, revenue mobilization and statistics (see Annex VI for MEF's
organization chart). Ministry leadership is thin; in his overall management
responsibilities, the Minister is only assisted by a Secretary-General with
limited delegated authority. While there are numerous advisers to the
Minister, few are  involved in  policy and decision-making.   To a  varying
degree all MEF departments suffer from lack of qualified staff and the
absence of any in-service training, poor working conditions, poorly defined
procedures, and lack of performance incentives and accountability.
12.       As a  result, many  of  the MEF's  key  functions are  not  being
carried /-ut effectively. Despite a history of multi-year planninz dating
back to independence, economic management is fragmented. Until recently,
external public debt could be incurred without prior approval of the core
economic  institutions.   Budget  preparation  is  conducted  hastily  with
insufficient consultation with spending ministries and budget increases
discriminate  poorly  between  priority   and  non-priority  uses.    While
investment budgeting is undergoing change (see para 24), little has been
done to strengthen institutional capacities, both within MEF and in
spending ministries, to better identify, prepare and appraise investment
projects.   Externally  funded  investment  decisions  are  still   largely
determined  by  donors.    More  generally,   expenditure  forecasting   is
rudimentary. Links are weak between recurrent and capital budgets, and
with  external  debt  management  and  macroeconomic  policy.    Commitment
monitoring during budget execution is perhaps the strongest part of the
budget  cycle,  thanks  largely  to  computerization,  but  weaknesses   in
Govermnent expenditure accounting limit the usefulness of spending reports
for feedback into the budget preparation process.
13.       On the revenue side, performance  is equally uneven.  On the  one
hand the Customs Department, traditionally the better endowed in the MEF,
has achieved consistently strong productivity increases over the last few
years. On the other hand, internal revenues, the responsibility for which
is  divided  between  the   Internal  Revenue  (assessment)  and   Treasury



- 5 -
(collection) Departments, have not been able to match this performance,
mainly because of coordination problems and poor information systems.
14.       The Civil  Service.   The  Mauritanian  civil  service  has  many
characteristics in  common  with  other  African  administrations.   As  it
shouldered much of the burden for employment generation in the economy, its
numbers increased more than tenfold since independence to about 20,000
today. In the absence of norms or safeguards, the combined pressure of
growing numbers of higher-level civil servants and budget restrictions has
resulted in a  large, underpaid bureaucracy.   There are approximately  180
departments  for   roughly   20,000   civil   servan,s   in   the   central
administration, compared with 110 comparable departments for 70,000 civil
servants in Senegal and 70 for 39,000 in Mali. Managing such a large
number of departments considerably taxes Mauritania's 14- ed pool of
managerial talent as well as complicates coordination.  In aduition,  these
structures lose much of their relevance since many divisions have no
personnel because there are neither the budgetary nor human resources
available to staff them.
15.       Civil service management was originally highly centralized  under
the Ministry of the Civil Service, today the Ministry of the Civil Service,
Labor, Youth and Sports (MCS). Unable to cope effectively with management
of the rapidly growing number of civil servants, MCS gradually relinquished
control over personnel to line ministries, with the result that personnel
administration gravely deteriorated. While there have been some practical
advantages to this de-facto decentralization, a stage has been reached
where MCS does not have the minimum capabilities required to fulfill key
personnel management functions. Information is lacking on numbers and
deployment of civil servants while manpower planning and in-service
training are nonexistent. Weaknesses in personnel records and controls
have also left the system open to abuse.
16.       The civil service legal framework, as in most of  French-speaking
Africa, covers in considerable detail all important aspects of civil
service   management,   including   recruitment,   promotion,   performance
evaluation, sanctions, and compensation. It is complex, rigid, and poorly
adapted to the development of  the administration's human resources.   More
than half of the public service has been recruited outside the civil
service proper as auxiliaires, where the statutory requirements are more
flexible. Auxiliaires are subject to entirely different and less favorable
conditions of employment but work alongside civil servants in similar
capacities and at all levels, including the highest (see Annex VII for
statistics on public sector employment). Another illustration of the
distortions brought about by the statutes is the change of civil service
statutes in 1972 which lowered education requirements for higher and
middle-level entry into the civil service. As a result, the upper tier of
the civil servilce now outnumbers the lower tier by about four to one,
whereas  the   proportion  is   closer  to   the  reverse   in   comparable
administrations.



- 6 -
17.       Although  no  systematic  analysis  of  existing  civil   service
compensation policies has been carried out, there is considerable evidence
of severe  problems.   Large  inequities  exist  among  civil  servants  of
comparable skills and responsibilities. At the higher levels in general
and for some specialties in particular, the lack of competitiveness with
the private and parastatal sectors is clearly hampering recruitment and
retention  of  critical  skills.   A  recent  study  on  public  enterprise
remuneration (available in the Project File) shows that for high-level
civil servants remuneration is about half that of comparators in the
private sector.   At the  lower  skill levels,  the  comparison is  to  the
advantage of the civil service. Except in limited instances, the relation
between compensation and performance is weak with seniority alone dictating
wage increases. More generally, the compensation system is unnecessarily
complex to administer.
18.       The civil service is also  currently without a viable  employment
policy.   The  hiring  freeze  under  ongoing  IMF-supported  stabilization
programs cannot be maintained indefinitely without unduly restricting the
administration's ability  to  adapt  its skill  mix.   Past  indiscriminate
hiring practices are no longer affordable except at the cost of a further
rapid  deterioration   of  the   civil  service's   competitiveness.    The
administration therefore needs  to equip  itself with  a manpower  planning
capability which would allow it to identify priority areas where selective
recruitment  into  the   civil  service  is   required,  within   budgetary
constraints, and to improve the deployment of existing civil servants.
19.       Along with employment  policy, civil service  training policy  is
equally  in  need   of  change,  particularly   in  relation  to   manpower
development. Since the hiring freeze, existing traininig institutions have
been phasing  out training  of recruits  for the  civil service.   However,
practically no in-service training takes place and there is yet no strategy
to harness available training resources to help meet civil service skill
mix requirements.   In conjunction  with  career management  policies,  the
whole system of training incentives is in need of reform.
20.       Local Government.  Decentralization  of government functions  and
the creation of local levels of authority are a major political priority.
In August 1986, the Government established the legal framework for the
creation of local municipalities (Ordonnance 86-134). This was followed in
17ovember 1986 with the establishment  of municipalities in the 13  regional
capitals and free elections for the selection of municipal leaders and
representatives. The establishment of at least 30 more municipalities is
planned for  early  1988.   Over the  next  few  years and  as  rapidly  as
practicable, this is to take place in many other cities. The creation of
municipalities is intended to bring about profound changes in development
management, fostering community development and self-help at the local
level, and alleviating the financial and management strain on central
government.
21.       Having no  history of  local government,  however, Mauritania  is
badly In need of assistance to ensure that the development of local level



administration does bring about the desired increase in responsiveness in
providing  lc:al  services   and  does   not  strain   the  financial   and
institutional capabilities of the country to support such structures.   The
Ministry of Interior, Information and Telecommunications (MIIT), which is
responsible for local administration, will be the prime agent for designing
and overseeing this new development. A new division of labor has to be
established between  central,  regional,  and  municipal  governments.   In
particular, financial resources and staff have to be transferred from the
central and regional to the municipal levels, and viable and functioning
administrative service delivery systems have to be established within the
new municipalities.
Government's Reform Efforts
22.       The  Government's  determination  to  tackle  its  public  sector
management weaknesses is  now being translated  into specific actions.   In
many cases, Government has laid the groundwork for the development of a
reform strategy and has already undertaken steps to address the key
problems facing the public sector, as described below.
23.       Strengthening the Presidency.  Efforts  have begun to  strengthen
core management functions within the Presidency. At Government's request,
French bilateral assistance produced two reports, one on the organization
of the Presidency and a second more specifically on its responsibilities
for legal oversight and for managing the interministerial decision-making
process. Many of the reports' recommendations have been implemented and a
long-term French adviser has been recruited to continue the work done so
far.   The  Government  is  also   considering  the  establishment  of   an
Organization and  Methods  Bureau  (BOM)  within  the  Presidency  to  help
introduce   basic   organizational   principles   in   central   government
restructuring activities  and has  appointed a  civil servant  to head  it.
With IDA assistance, a diagnostic of procurement legislation has been
carried out and a reform action program is being drawn up to revise the
procurement system.
24.       Economic and  Financial  Management  Reforms.   Since  1985,  the
Government instituted  significant changes  to establish  a firmer  control
over economic  and financial  management.   The Ministry  of Plan  and  the
Ministry of  Finance  were merged  into  today's Ministry  of  Economy  and
Finance (MEF).   For the  first  time, external  debt commitments  and  aid
agreements were subjected to the prior authorization of the Ministry.   The
investment budgeting framework was broadened to cover not only domestic but
also external resources and the counterpart funds from the sale of food
aid. A Fask force was constituted to prepare the first consolidated
investment  budget  for  1987.   An  Interministerial  Committee  has  been
created, consisting of the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Governor of
the Central Bank and the Secretary-General of the Government, to strengthen
coordination of ERP implementation. Finally, to help design a program to
strengthen the MEF and enable it to meet the increasing management
challenges of ERP implementation, the Minister requested a comprehensive
internal  assessmaent  of  the  Ministry's  organization  and   performance,



department by department, with an emphasis on those functions most critical
for the accomplishment of ERP objectives.  This was done in mid-1986 mostly
by advisers working within the Ministry.
25.       Civil Service  Reforms.  A  start has  also been  made to  reform
civil service management. Under successive Stand-by arraangements with the
IMF, recruitment into the administration has been stopped for all but
restricted categories,  especially teachers  and bealth  workers.   Payroll
audits were carried out in 1986,  and irregular payments halted.  A  decree
was passed in early 1986 to regulate excessive mobility of civil  servants.
Now under new leadership, the Ministry of the Civil Service is taking
vigorous action to regain lost ground. In addition to numerous small
practical actions to reconstitute its depleted records, collect and publish
civil service statutes, and strengthen its own staff qualifications, it has
prepared a masterplan funded under the PPF to rehabilitate personnel
administration. This masterplan, which was contracted to CNI-ATCT, a
Tunisian consortium, has been reviewed and approved by IDA.
26.       Local Government Reform.  Following the recent creation of  local
municipalities, the Government is now facing the challenge of implementing
the decentralization measures. To start the process, three studies which
develop the institutional, legal and financial framework for the creation
of  municipalities  are  now  being  funded  under  the  Second   Technical
Assistance Project (1292-MAU of FY82). The first is completed, the second
is near completion and the third is about to start. The first would help
the  Government   and   the   Ministry   of   Interior,   Information   and
Telecommunications (MIIT) to provide for a clearer demarcation of roles and
responsibilities of central, regional and local authorities. The second
would assess existing and potential financial resources, propose necessary
adjustments  to  existing  fiscal  regulations,  and  help  establish   the
municipalities' budgetary  and  financial management  systems.   The  third
would help MIIT reorganize its Local Government Department so as to enable
it to effectively fulfill its coordinating and monitoring role in the
implementation of local government reform.
Reform Management
27.       The Government has also moved forward to set up the  organization
necessary to formulate and implement its administrative reform program. In
order  to  ensure  the  ccoperation  and  collaboration  of  the  concerned
Ministries, a Consultative Committee for Institutional Reform (CCIR) was
officially created in December 1986. At the same time, the Government
established a Bureau for Coordination of Institutional Reform (BCIR) and
appointed its Director, a hi6hly qualified civil servant.
28.       The BCIR  will be  the key  agency to  operationalize the  reform
strategy. Reporting to the Ministry of the Civil Service, which provides
the  channel  to   che  Council   of  Ministers,   BCIR's  mandate   covers
administrative reform at  the core,  sector and  local levels.   It is  not
limited to reform efforts supported under the project, nor to those



- 9 -
supported by IDA. Under its mandate, BCIR assists concerned institutions
in:
(a) defining the overall reform strategy and objectives;
(b) preparing specific action programs;
(c)  ensuring  consistency   and   coordination  among   actions   and
integrating these activities into the Government's programs;
(d) advising on legal and regulatory proposals;
(e) providing for the sharing of information and participation of the
main  actors  and  implementors  of  reform,  through   seminars,
workshops, public relations efforts, etc.; and
(f) monitoring and evaluation of program implementation.
29.       CCIR will  chiefly operate  as  a high-level  coordination  body.
Presided over by the Minister of the Civil Service, CCIR includes 23
members in all, from each of the 14 ministries (1 each), the Presidency
(4), higher education institutions (2), the private employers' federation
(1), and the labor movement (1). Its composition therefore allows CCIR to
represent a broad  spectrum of  views and interests.   As well,  additional
participants can be added as necessary, and subcommittees can be formed.
CCIR will advise BCIR on reform strategy, objectives and priorities, and
implementation issues and will provide BCIR with a flexible instrument for
consultation and coordination. CCIR would be operational as a condition of
effectiveness cf the credit (para 67).
IDA and Other Donor Support for Public Sector Management
30.       IDA's strategy  in  assisting Mauritania  strengthen  its  public
sector focuses on redressing selected policy areas under the SAL combined
with support under the proposed project as well as other projects to
overcome institutional deficiencies. Under the SAL, crucial priority areas
are improvements in public investment planning, budgeting and general
strengthening of MEF (para 24). For civil service management, a masterplan
for revamping personnel administration will be developed and reforms of the
personnel policy initiated (para 25).
31.       These broad  policy  changes  are  being  complemented  by  IDA's
support to  public sector  reform at  three levels.   In addition  to  this
project, a Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Project (1567-MAU of FY85) is
helping the Government design major policy and institutional reforms of the
public enterprise sector to reduce its size and increase its efficiency,
besides helping rehabilitate several specific enterprises. At the sector
level, assistance is also being provided in: (i) agriculture to carry out
an ambitious restructuring of sector institutions and strengthen planning
and budgeting functions -- including the privatization of several functions
carried out until recently by parastatals; and (ii) education to adjust



- 10 -
spending priorities and strengthen sector organization and management.
Finally, IDA is considering continued support for municipal development at
the local government level, to extend that provided under the Second
Technical Assistance Project and the proposed project.
32.       Other donors  are joining  IDA in  increasing their  support  for
institutional development and improvement to public sector management.
French  bilateral  aid  (FAC  and  CCCE)  supplies  considerable  technical
assistance to a large  number of agencies.   UNDP furthermore is  providing
assistance for the introduction of accounting standards, for population and
agricultural statistics, for the computerization of customs operations and,
along with  IDA,  for  planning  in agriculture.  It  is  also  considering
assistance for technical assistance programming and management.  The latter
is an  important area:  there are  approximately 960  technical  assistants
working in Mauritania (see Annex VIII), some of whom are financed directly
by the budget, and there appears to be considerable scope for improving
effectiveness and reducing costs.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
33.       The Mauritanian Government  realizes that  the implementation  of
its economic recovery program presents it with a considerable challenge
over the  near term.   Policy  changes need  to  be done  turgently  despite
institutional weaknesses in economic management. However, the implementing
institutions need to be strengthened to  avoid a recurrence of past  policy
failures.  The project  would thus support  the Government's commitment  to
bring about these  changes in  economic management,  particularly in  those
areas singled out under the SAL. It will also help lay the foundation for
longer-term administrative reform, set its strategy and priorities, and
establish a reform implementation capability.
34.       More  specifically,  the  project  is  designed  to  assist   the
Government to:
(a)  strengthen core  government  management capabilities  within  the
Presidency, in  the  areas of  interministerial  decision-making,
legal and regulatory oversight, procurement, and organization and
management;
(b)  improve economic  management,  through  strengthening  of  public
expenditure management  and  fiscal administration,  and  through
general institutional strengthening of the MEF;
(c) increase civil service productivity through the rehabilitation of
personnel management institutions, processes and information
systems, and through implementation of the first phase of reform
action  programs  for  civil  service  pay,  employment,   career
management and training policies;



- 11 -
(d) support effective decentralization through the development of an
appropriate  institutional   and   legal  framework   for   local
governments, the strengthening of oversight and coordination
capacities within MIIT, and the provision of training for
concerned central, regional and local staff; and
(e)  create  a   framework   for   the   continued   formulation   and
implementation of administrative reform at core, sectoral and
local levels.
Project Description
35.       Support to  the Presidency  (US$1.1 million).   The project  will
focus on strengthening three main functions in the Presidency. First, the
project will extend and complement the work done by bilateral assistance in
the  legal  and  interministerial  decision-making  processes  within   the
Presidency. Second, it will help establish the BOM, define operating
procedures, and carry out on-the-job training for BOM staff. The BOM would
undertake an inventory of central administration organizational charts and
statutes, a comparative analysis of central government structures, and
develop guidelines for ministerial reorganizations. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the BOM would be established by December 1988, and that
the BOM's activities and effectiveness would be reviewed subsequently with
IDA by July 1991 and its mandate revised if deemed necessary (para 66).
Third, the project will help implement reforms of the procurement system,
including procurement legislation which the Government intends to revise by
end 1988.
36.       For this part of the project, financing will be provided for: (i)
consulting services, including one long-term adviser (48 person-months)
working with both the Legislative Department and the Council of Ministers
Service within the Presidency, and short-term consultants to advise on
organization  and  procedures  (8 person-months);  to  revise   procurement
legislation (2 person-months); and to establish BOM (14 person-months);
(ii) in-service training in procurement, organization and management; and
(iii) logistical support (micro-computers, office equipment) to the BOM,
the Legislative Department, the Council of Ministers Service and the
Central Procurement Board.
37.       Economic and Financial Management (US$3 million).  This component
of the project will help to implement the first phase of the reform of
economic management within the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the
Central Bank.   First,  the  project  will  assist  MEF  to  reorganize  to
eliminate  conflicts   of  attribution   between  the   Planning  and   Aid
Coordination Departments, introduce sector specialization in Planning, and
integrate within the Aid Coordination Department monitoring responsibility
for public investment and external debt. The outline of the reorganization



- 12 -
has been agreed between IDA and MEF. It was agreed during negotiations
that the reorganization would be put in place by June 1988 (para 66).
38.       In addition, the project will  help: (i) the Planning  Department
to adapt atnd institutionalize the consolidated investment budget and the
three-year rolling PIP (proposed terms of reference are available in the
Project File); (ii) the Budget Department to prepare budget circulars/forms
and improve budget procedures; (iii) the Central Bank and MEF's Aid
Coordination Department to design and put in place a debt reporting system;
and (iv) the Treasury Department to update public accounting and reorganize
its internal reporting. Project financing for these activities include 56
person-months of consulting services, plus staff trainit.g, and logistical
support.
39.       The  project   will   also   support   improvements   in   fiscal
administration through: (i) upgrading and better integration of tax
assessment information systems; (ii) a redeployment of tax collectors from
low to high population areas; and (iii) a pilot action to strengthen
customs border patrolling activities, in order to determine the financial
viability and the potential for replicability in other areas. The project
will fund  16  person-months  of  consulting  services,   vehicles,  office
supplies, equipment (mostly microcomputers) and furniture, and   production
of an initial stock of printed tax information materials for taxpayers.
During negotiations, it was agreed that Government would adopt full cost
recovery  arrangements  satisfactory  to  IDA  prior  to  publication   and
dissemination of tax regulation materials (para 66).
40.       During project preparation, MEF developed a masterplan for  MEF's
data-processing activities  which  has  been  approved  by  IDA.   To  help
implement the first phase of the data-processing masterplan, the project
will  finance  the  purchase   of  microcomputers,  peripheral   equipment,
software, supplies and related maintenance contracts for the concerned
departments and the Central Bank. In addition it will fund the contracts
of  up  to  seven  trainees  with  formal  systems  analysis  or   computer
programming skills, to be hired to work with the Data Processing Department
under the local skills mobilization scheme (see para 62).
41.       Finally, the project will  include an extensive training  program
for MEF  staff (see  para 61).   Working in  close collaboration  with  the
project-wide training advisor, a MEF training coordinator will develop a
training plan for the Ministry, identifying specific courses, seminars,
long-term training needs and documentation requirements. In addition, the
Planning Department would initiate a trainee scheme for a limited number of
qualified recent university economics graduates (see para 62 on skills
mobilization scheme). The trainees will be given two-year assignments to
work closely with a economic policy analyst/trainer on economic planning,
policy and project evaluation. As a condition of effectiveness, MEF will
have appointed  the  training  coordinator (para  67).   The  project  will
finance the policy analyst/trainer (2 years), short-term consultants for
training (12 person-months), overseas training, development of teaching



- 13 -
materials, and establishment of a documentation center for use by all
Government employees.
42.       Civil Service  Reform (US$2.3 million).  Based  on the  recently
approved masterplan (para 24), the project will assist in rehabilitating
personnel administration in three phases  over a four-year period .   Phase
one, which would take until late 1988, consists of detailed organizational
and systems specification during which personnel administration procedures
and information systems will be specified or revised wherever necessary,
streamlined and standardized across ministries and basic hardware, software
and data management decisions made. Particular attention will be given to
the interfaces between the personnel information system and the payroll.
Phase two consists of detailed systems design and programming and would
last  until  about  the  third  quarter  of  1989.   Phase  three,  systems
installation, which will overlap with phase two and take until about
end-1990, involves: (i) reorganizing and strengthening MCS and personnel
administration generally, including increasing and upgrading staffing,
particularly through training; (ii) validating personnel and payroll
records prior to computerization; and (iii) gradual implementation of the
new procedures and systems. These activities are expected to result in
more rigorous and transparent personnel management, generate budgetary
savings, facilitate proactive personnel management, and provide a stronger
foundation for public finance reforms. The project will finance consulting
services (86 person-months), computer and office equipment, vehicles,
training, and refurbishing of MCS office space in connection with the
installation of computer equipment. Implementation will be overseen by a
Technical Committee formed in early 1986 with th,2 participation of MCS,
MEF, and technicians from concerned administrations.
43.       In addition,  the project  will finance  three basic  studies  to
prepare reform of civil service policies: specific reforms on pay,
employment, career development management and training are to be developed
and initial reform actions implemented with project assistance. The first
study entails an analysis of pay and grading policy and addresses the
following  issues:  providing  adequate   incentives  to  attract   skilled
personnel, in the context of comparisons with the private and parastatal
sectors;  redressing   internal  inequities   within  central   government;
affordability of wage bill in light of budgetary constraints; and capacity
of institutional mechanisms to  set, carry out  and monitor policy.   Phase
one of this study would include a diagnosis of the present system covering
all levels of civil service across central government agencies and
including auxiliary and contractual employees, with a view toward the
consolidation of these groups, and present the costs and benefits of
various reform options. Phase two would consist of preparing a detailed
implementation plan. The second study to be financed under the project
will focus on government employment and recruitment, analyzing current
policies and their consequences and recommending reforms in policies and
institutional mechanisms as appropriate. The final study will focus on the
development of a career management system for the civil service, analyzing
career schemes, the current mechanisms for performance evaluation and
advancement within Government.



- 14 -
44.           The project will also finance  the preparation of a  training
strategy for the civil service, on the basis of a training needs assessment
for the central government and an assessment of the capacity of existing
training  institutions.   Incentives  must  be  found  to  encourage  civil
servants to  participate  in  in-service  training  courses.   These  would
include establishing clear links between training and promotion, and
introducing new procedures emphasizing merit-based performance incentives.
45.       The project would finance 44 person-months of consulting services
to carry out the above studies (terms of reference available in the Project
File) and to assist Government in the implementation of initial reform
actions; a long-term resident legal adviser (2 years); and training for MCS
and sector ministry personnel staff. The three studies and the training
strategy would be contracted to a single firm and carried out concurrently.
During negotiations, it was agreed that interim reports laying out basic
reform options would be submitted by April 1989 and that the final reports,
including a reform action program, would be released by February 1990
(para 66).
46.       Municipal Development (US$0.6  million).  This  component of  the
project will improve the capacity of the Ministry of Interior, Information
and  Telecommunications  (MIIT)   to  oversee   and  coordinate   municipal
development management based on three studies now being carried out under
the Second  Technical Assistance  Project (para 26).   The  recommendations
from the studies will be implemented with assistance provided under the
project. More specifically, the project will finance advisory services (30
person-months)  to  implement  the  redistribution  of  functions   between
different  levels   of  authority,   design   the  financial   systems   of
municipalities, and effectively carry out MIIT's reorganization; training
for the technical and administrative staff seconded to or directly hired by
the municipalities; and office equipment for MIIT's Local Government
Department.
47.       Preparation  of   Additional   Reforms  (US$1.1   million).    As
implementation of the ERP and SAL proceeds, additional institutional
constraints will  emerge  requiring  remedial  action.   The  project  will
finance  studies  and  institutional   audits  leading  to  proposals   for
additional reform action programs. These proposals will be reviewed by IDA
and the Government.   Limited funding (up  to approximately US$200,000  per
activity)  would  be  provided  for  implementing  proposed  reforms   with
additional sources of funding to be sought from other donors if necessary.
Already identified reform areas include: (i) the Ministry of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy (MFME) which needs to be reorganized and strengthened so
as to be able to effectively manage the new fisheries policy recently
approved under the SAL; and (ii) the Auditor-General and the Financial
Controller Offices, in the Presidency. During negotiations, it was agreed
that all proposals would be submitted by BCIR for approval to CCIR (or to
the Council of Ministers) and to  IDA, by no later than end-1989.   Funding
would be available to finance consultancies (80 person-months), training,
and limited logistical support.



- 15 -
48.       Project Management (US$2.45 million).   The project will  support
BCIR, which would be responsible for overall implementation (paras 58-60),
and assist the implementing agencies to identify and mwanage technical
assistance.   This   would  be   done  by    exploring  possible   twinning
arrangements, compiling a roster of local consultants, helping to draft
terms of reference for consulting dssignments and establishing short lists.
BCIR is also responsible for managing the skills mobilization scheme
(para 62). To help establish BCIR, the project will finance consulting
services (20 person-months), logistical support (vehicles, office equipment
and furniture), and BCIR's o3perating expenses, including all of BCIR's
contractual staff. BCIR staff would include a Coordinator, two trainees,
an accountant, a training coordinator, and six support staff. The BCIR
Coordinator and  project  accountant  have  already  been  appointed.   The
training  coordinator  will   have  been  appointed   as  a  condition   of
effectiveness (para 67).
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
Project Costs
49.         Total project costs are  estimated at US$11.48 million  (UM 865
million) including taxes and duties of US$0.52 million (UM 39.2 million).
The estimated foreign exchange component is US$8 million, or 70 percent of
total costs. Details by major component are provided on the next page:



- 16 -
Estimated Costs
X Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total  Exchange
------- US$o000 -------
A. Presidency
Legislative Department &                  164       511      676      76
Council of Ministers Service
Organization & Methods Bureau              70       237      306      77
Central Procurement Cot.nittee             24       110       134     82
B. Economic and Financial Management
Public Expenditure Management             414    1,371    1,786       77
Fiscal Administration                     192       736      928      79
MEF Institutional Strengthening            140      232       371     62
C. Civil Service Reform
Persor.niel Management Rehabilitation     365    1,325    1,689       78
Civil Service Policy Reform               152       456      608      75
D. Municipal Development                      157      472       630     75
E. Preparation of Additional Reforms         270       810    1,080      75
F. Project Management                        992    1,143    2,136       54
Baseline Costs                          2,941    7,403   10,345       72
Physical Contingencies                     85       319      405      79
Price Contingencies                       381       249      630      40
Total Project Costs                     3,408    7,972   11,380       70
===z=    -===m   ======    ==
50.       Base cost estimates are in mid-87 prices.  Physical contingencies
amounting to 4 percent of base costs are included. i'rice contingencies
have been estimated at 6 percent of base costs at annual rates as follows:
Assumed inflation rates (percent per annum):
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Local                  5        5       5        5       5        5       5
Foreign                1        1       1     3.5      3.5      3.5     3.5



- 17 _
Financing Plan
51.       The proposed  IDA  credit  of US$ 10.0  million  equivalent  will
finance approximately 92 percent of total project costs net of duties and
taxes; this would cover approximately US$7.6 million of foreign costs and
US$2.4 million of local costs. A PPF in the amount of US$0.5 million has
financed (a) a masterplan to help rehabilitate the Civil Service personnel
administration; (b) an analysis of procurement legislation and formulation
of a reform action program; and (c) consultant services to help prepare
this project.   A second  PPF  request for  an additional  US$1 million  is
expected shortly.   The  Government's  contribution of  US$1  million  will
finance all duties and taxes, office space for BCIR as well as newly
created tax collection posts. Co-financing estimated at US$0.4 million by
FAC (France) has been put in place for one long-term adviser for the
Legislative Department. The financing plan is set out below:
Proposed Project Financing
IDA       FAC    GOM        Total      % IDA
--------- US$ million -----    Contribution
Advisory Services              3.4      0.4        -        3.8          89
Training                       3.3        -        -        3.3         100
Office Equipment               0.9        -        -        0.9         100
Civil Works                   0.1         -        -        0.1         100
Vehicles                       0.3        -        -        0.3         100
Incremental                   0.9         -        -        0.9         100
Salaries
Operating Expenses             1.1        -      1.0        2.1          52
Project Total                 10.0      0.4      1.0       11.4          88
Procurement
52.       Procurement  includes  a  limited  amount  of  civil  works   and
purchases of goods  plus services.   Civil works funded  under the  project
consist of refurbishing of existing office space (para 42), for an amount
that is unlikely to attract foreign bidders and therefore will be
contracted under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
Consultant services will be subject to Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants. Within these guidelines, efforts would be made under a
specially conceived local skills mobilization scheme (see para 62) to
maximize the  use  of local  capacities.   A detailed  list  of  consultant
services required under the project (total of 472 person-months) is
attached  as  Annex V.   Packages  of  equipment  and  vehicles  valued  at
US$100,000 or more will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines. Subsequent changes totalling
less than 15 percent of the value of the contract will not need further
review. Items valued at less than US$100,000 will be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Bidding packages



- 18 -
for goods totalling over US$50,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about
75 percent of  contracts.   Minor items  costing  $20,000 or  less,  in  an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$600,000, will be purchased following
local shopping procedures by obtaining quotations from at least three
suppliers. A procurement table is presented below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
Procurement Component       ICB        LCB        OTHER     N.A.    TOTAL
--(US$ million)----------------
Consultant Services,            -         -        3.8      0.9       4.7
Studies and BCIR Staff         -                 (3.4)    (0.9)    (4.3)
Training                        -         -        3.3         -      3.3
(3.3)              (3.3)
Civil Works                     -       0.1          -         -      0.1
(0.1)        _                O.1)
Vehicles, Furniture           0.7       0.2        0.1         -      1.0
and Equipment              (0.7)      (0.2)      (0.1)              (1.0)
Operating Costs                 -       0.1        2.3         -      2.4
(0.1)     (2.1)              (2.2)
Total                        0.7        0.4        9.4      0.9      11.4
(0.7)     (0.4)      (8.8)    (0.9)   (10.8)
A/ Contingencies and expenditures financed by the PPF are included in the
amounts shown. IDA contribution is indicated in parentheses.
Disbursements
53.       The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed against: 100 percent
of the cost of consultants (local and foreign), BCIR contractual staff
salaries, and training costs; 100 percent of total expenditures for
equipment, office furniture, vehicles, office supplies and materials; 100
percent of total  expenditures for  civil works;  and 90  percent of  total
expenditures for operating costs (all BCIR operating costs, excluding
salaries,  and   maintenance  costs   for  vehicles   and  equipment).    A
disbursement schedule is attached as Annex III. The disbursement schedule
follows  the  standard  seaven-year   disbursement  profile  for   technical
assistance projects in the Africa region. The expected project completi_n
date is June 30, 1994.



- 19 -
54.       A Special Account of  up to UM 13  million (US$170,000) has  been
established for the PPF in a conmercial bank. It will be brought up to
UM 53 million (US$700,000) upon credit effectiveness. These funds would be
maintained by BCIR to cover pxoject expenditures and would be replenished
by  IDA  on   the  basis  of   eligible  aggre-Rted  withdrawal   -equests;
replenishm'rit applications would be submitted on a monthly basis. Payments
will be fully documented except for payments against contracts of less than
US$20,000, training and  operating costs which  would be disbursed  against
statements of expenditure with the underlying documentation held  available
locally fcr inspection by IDA supervision missions. During negotiations,
Government agreed to provide all complementary counterpart funding required
as and when needed. Requirements for 1988 are estimated at UM 4 million.
Accounts and Audit
55.       BCIR will maintain separate accounts for all expenditures  funded
under  the  credit.   Project  accounts  are  to  be  audited  annually  by
independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an audit of statements
of expenditures. The audit reports, of such scope and in such detail as
IDA shall reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the end of the Government's fiscal year.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Annual Action Programs and Reporting
56.       The project will be implemented on the basis of an annual  action
program  for  each   component  which  serves   as  a  flexible   planning,
implementation and  monitoring  tool.   Each annual  action  program  would
I.nclude: (i) an evaluation of the previous year's action program; (ii) a
statement of monitorable objectives to be pursued and a description and
timetable of the activities to be carried out to realize those objectives;
(iii) detailed budgets and financing plans as well as a procurement program
and timetable; and (iv) staffing and training plans. Action programs are
to be prepared and implemented by each agency concerned (MEF, MCS, MITT,
Central Bank, MFME). The concerned implementing agencies are responsible
for formulating and implementing their own activities, subject to review
and approval by BCIR, IDA and, whenever appropriate, CCIR, with overall
project administration  done  by  BCIR.   Agreement  on  first-year  action
programs  would  be  a  condition  of  effectiveness  (para  67).    During
negotiations, It was agreed that action programs for the following year
would be submitted to IDA for review and approval by October of each year
(para 66).   A proposed  schedule for  implementing project  activities  is
attachee as A.nnex I. In addition, criteria for measuring project success
to be used in project monitoring and evaluation h.ve been defined and are
attached as Annex IV.
57.       BCIR will also prepare semiannual progress reports for submission
to CCIR, the Minister of the Civil Service and IDA and will prepare a
project completion report and submit it to IDA no later than six months



- 20 -
after the credit closing date.  Each component manager would be responsible
for providing BCIR with the necessary documentation to enable it to prepare
the progress as well as the completion reports.
Proj ect Management
58.        A component manager has been designated for each one of the four
components to liaise with BCIR and IDA.
59.       As the key implementing  agency, BCIR's project  responsibilities
would include the following:
(a) ensuring coordination among components and between implementation
agencies and IDA;
(b)  helping implementing agencie  ';: the preparation of annual action
programs and budgets;
(c) preparation of semi-annual progress monitoring reports;
(d) disbursements and preparation of claims for reimbursements;
(e) assisting in and monitoring of the procurement of goods and
services to be financed under the credit; and
(f)  coordination  of   project-related   training   activities   from
participating  agencies   with   local   or   overseas   training
institutions.
60.       Among the BCIR's first activities was a national seminar in  July
1987 launching the administrative reform program with the participation of
higher-level professional staff and management. The seminar successfully
involved some of the reform's main actors and implementors thus analyzing
problems, establishing priorities for reform and discussing the operational
approach.
Training
61.       Each of the project components  emphasizes training as a  crucial
element in capacity  building and sustaining  the reform process.   Project
training activities are the responsibility of a training coordinator.
Although working in close cooperation with the project director, the
training coordinator would report to the Ecole Nationale d'Administration
(ENA). ENA teaching facilities will be utilized to conduct project
training courses, especially  in-service workshops  and seminars.   Faculty
members with appropriate experience would be asked to offer courses; other
teaching staff would be recruited locally or overseas. To the extent
possible, retired civil servants would be recruited as lecturers and
offered honoraria financed under the skills mobilization scheme (see
below).
.r



- 21 -
Local Skills Mobilization
62.       While in many instances there will  be no substitute for the  use
of international consultants, the project will seek to maximize the use of
local skills to complement the human resources available within the
administration. For instance, the project proposes to fund retired civil
servants in project training activities, and trainee schemes in MEF's
Planning and Data Processing Departments (see paras 40 and 41) using local
graduates. The project, furthermore, dims to aid the development of the
local consulting industry, which is in an incipient state in all but the
accounting field. BCIR is establishing a roster of available capacities,
preparing standaid contracts and investigating market conditions in the
consulting industry. Wherever local consultants are not able to compete
unassisted for project consulting contracts, mechanisms acceptable to IDA
would be used to encourage their association with international firms.   On
a pilot basis, the project also attempts to create the conditions for the
emergence of a consulting capacity for the development and maintenance of
microcomputer-based systems. Specifically, project-funded trainees could
form the technical core of one or two consulting firms competing for local
contracts. The project will attempt to identify other similar ventures.
Other Technical Assistance
63.       Significant technical assistance  is already  active in  project-
related areas, particularly in MEF where FAC has financed 15 advisers since
1979. Their full utilization will be sought prior to recourse to external
consultancies. Additional needs for consulting services for the economic
management components are expected to be furnished through twinning
arrangements with Tunisian and/or French administrations, to reduce costs
and management  requirements.  Both  ATCT (Tunisian)   and ADETEF  (French)
have been actively providing similar services elsewhere in francophone
Africa. Civil service administration rehabilitation will be able to draw
on the resources of the Tunisian administration through an already
successful contract with CNI-ATCT.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
64.       The project  will  begin  to  address long  term  issues  of  the
cost-effectiveness of public tnstitutions. It will provide a framework and
establish  a  process  for  institutional  reform,  notably  creating   and
strengthening  management  capacities  in  areas  critical  to   structural
adjustment, which today are carried out on an ad-hoc basis and with a large
and unsustainable element of external technical assistance. The benefits
to be expected of successful project implementation are numerous: for the
Ministry of Economy and Finance, they range from the benefits of better
informed budget and investment decisions to an increase in budget revenues
through improved tax administration as well as budget savings from better
cash management. For the civil service, the benefits are to come from
budgetary savings from tighter personnel management and are expected to
translate into significant productivity gains. For municipal development,



- 22 _
there is much evidence of the advantages of community-based development
over centralized administration. Over the longer term, together with the
Public  Enterprise  Rehabilitation  Project,  these  institutional   reform
efforts would attempt to tap the considerable potential for improving the
productivity of the public sector.
65.       The risks of  this project  in particular,  and of  institutional
reform in general, are of four types: (i) that commitment for reform
waivers or that resistance to reform blocks implementation, due to
bureaucratic resistance or to linguistic or social divisions inhibiting
change; (ii) that managing the reform process exceeds local capacities;
(iii) that it proves difficult to identify acceptable technical assistance
with the required expertise; or (iv) that BCIR's position under MCS
prevents it from assuming a proactive coordination role. Regarding the
first risk, there is abundant evidence of leadership commitment, such as
the nomination of a highly qualified director for the BCIR, the carrying
out of an institutional assessment of the MEF, and the preparation of the
program to rehabilitate civil service management. Government commitment
was also convincingly demonstrated during the recent national seminar on
administrative reform which will be  replicated at regular intervals.   The
second risk will be alleviated by having strong project management, already
operational; flexible and modular implementation arrangements minimizing
interdependence between reform components; a seven-year implementation
period even though initial action programs span only four years; and direct
management support  to BCIR.   The  effectiveness of  technical  assistance
provided under the project would be enhanced by resorting to external
consultants as a last resort, by maximizing the use of technical assistance
in place, of local consultants and of twinning arrangements, in particular
through a skills mobilization scheme which is an integral part of project
design.  Finally, the last risk, that  of MCS's lack of stature within  the
Government, is offset by the strong commitment already evident at higher
decision making levels.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
66.       During negotiations, agreement was reached:
(a) that BOM would be established by December 1988 with functions and
responsibilities  satisfactory  to   the  Association  and   with
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers (para 35);
(b) that BOM's activities and effectiveness would be reviewed by
July 1991 and its mandate revised if deemed necessary (para 35);
(c) that MEF would have completed its reorganization of the Planning,
Aid Coordination and Budget Departments by June 1988 (para 37);



- 23 -
(d)  that MEF would  adopt measures to  ensure satisfactory full  cost
recovery arrangements for publication and dissemination *f tax
regulation information (para 39);
(e)  that interim reports for the  civil service studies and  trainIng
strategy would be submitted to lDA for review by April 1989, with
the final reports com.1pleted and submitted to IDA by February 1990
(para 45);
Uf)  that annual work programs for  each component would be  submitted
to IDA for review and approval by October of each year (para 56);
and
(g) that proposals for str2ngthening the Ministry of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy, the Auditor General's Office, the Financial
Controller's Office and any other proposals for administrative
reform would be submitted to CCIR and to IDA for approval by
December 1989.
67.       Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) that CCIR is operational (para 29);
(b)  that  MEF's  senior  training  coordinator  has  been   appointed
(para 41);
(c)  that the overall project traininig coordinator has been  appointed
(para 48); and
(d) that IDA has agreed on first-year action programs for each
component (para 56).
Recormniendation
68.       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit of US$10.0 equivalent to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania on
IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
AF5CO
November 23, 1987



MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Component/Subcomponent                                                                       Year and Quarter
Activity                                                            1987             1988            1989            199         1991-92
Tasks                                                      1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4
-- - - -- -- -- -- -- - - -- - --- -- - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- -- -- -- --- - -- -- - -- -- -- --   - --   -- -   -- -   - - -   - --   - --   -- -   - --   - --   - - -   - --   - --   - - -   - - -   - - -   -- -   - -- - ---
A. Coro Government Management Functions
1- Department of Legislation and Council of Ministers Service
- diagnosis and preparation of action Program                         xx xxx     xxx.                  xxx             xx  rxxxxxxx
- implmemntation                                                              xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
2. Procurement oversight
- finalization 1st year action program                             x    x
- implamentation                                                                  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxXY
3. BOW
- preparation snd approval of decree                                                  'xxx
- recruitment of consultant                                               x
- recruitment and training of BOM staff                                        xxx         xxxxxx     .
- define internal operating procedures                                         xxx.
- carry out inventory of central admin.                                            xxxxxxx
- standardizo restructuring proposals                                          xxxxxxx.
- introduce new procedures for restructurina                                           xxx xxx.
- BOM evaluation                                                                                                            xxx
4. Auditor-General and Financial Controller                                                                                                          4
- diagnosis and preparation of action program                                          xxx             xxx              xxx xxxxxxx
- implementation                                                                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
B. Economic Management                                                 .
I - Public Expenditure Management
1. Planning Department
- reorganization                                             .   .   .        .xxx.   .       .   .   .
- design of trainee scheme                                                 xxx.
- recruitment of economic policy trainer                                       xxxxxxx        .
- preparation of annual training plan                                                  xxx            .xxx              xxx
- TOR and recruitment of PIP and BC consultant                            xxx.
- introduction of 3-year rolling PIP                              xxxxxxx
- adaptation of SC and PIP                                                    xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
2. Aid Coordination Department
- reorganization                                                  xxx.
- preparation of debt reporting action program                        xxx
- implemotation                                                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxx
- preparation of investment monitoring action program                      xxxxxxx.
- implementation                                                                   xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3. Budget Departmen.                                               .
- reorganization                                             .   xxx          .       . 
- preparation of action program                                                        xxx    .                                   x
- implementation                                                                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx            r,-
- preparation of annual training plan                             xxx.                 xxx             xxx              xxx                 -i
---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---  ----- -  - - .-  - - ..0



MAURITANIA
2VELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Component/Subcomponent                                                                              Year and Quart-r
Activity                                                                 1987              1988             1989              1990       11991-92
Tasks                                                          1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   41
C. Civil Servic  Reform.                                                                     .   .             .   .   .        .
1. Porsonnel Administration Rehabilitation                                               .
- appointment of consultant                                                        x xx
- organization and systms specification                                              xxxxxxxxxx
- procurement of hardwaro                                                      x.. .xxxxxxxxxx
- detailed systems design and programming                                                         xxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
- validation of MCS and pilot administrations personnel                                                    xxxxxxxx
records
- test computerization of pilot administrations                                                                    xx.x
- validation of ministries personnel records                           .                                                    xx;xxxxxxxxx
- implementation of computerization                                                                                             xxxxxxxx xxx
2. Civil Service Policy R-form
- preparation of TOR for studies                                                 xxx
- selection and mobilization of consultant                                              x;xxxxxx.xx
- studies                                                                                 xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx
- implementation                                                    _            _   _   _        _   _         ______xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
D.  Municipal Oevelopment
1.   MIIT Local Government Dev. Reorganization                              xxx.          xxx.                  xxx.             xxx.
- appointment of consultant                                        xxx.
- studies                                                                       xxxxxxxx
- implementation                                                                             x .XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2.   Municipal Administration
a. Legal Framework
- representation and approval of decrees                          .    xxx.
- design of operating procedures                                       xxxxxxx xxx      .        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
b. Financial Managemnt                                                                      .xxx            ..xxx    .xxx
- definition of action progress                                           xxxxxxxx
- implemntation                                                                          xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- preparation of monitoring progross                                                             xxxxxxx.    xxxl               xxxl
- implementation                                                                                          XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIxxxxxxxxxxx
c. Staff Training                                                                                                 I
- dotailed proposal for training plan                                           xxxxxxx.   .                   
- preparation of annual training programs                         .                      xxx         xxxx             xxxx
- implementation                                                  .xxxxxxx.                                xx xxxxxx.   xxxxxxx
.   I  ..    .. I   .          .  .
.  _
0



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Table 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(UM Million)               (USS '000)
% Total
% Foreign      Base
Local  Foreign Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange    Costs
A. residency
LegisIat;vo Dept,
& Council of
Ministers Service               12.6   38.9   61.4    184.6    611.5        876.0         78         7
Organization & Methods
Bureau                           8.3   18.0   23.3       69.7    236.8      30B6.         77         3
Central Procurement
Committee                        1.9    8.3   10.2       24.6    109.6      134.0         82         1
Subtotal                         19.7   65.2   84.9    268.7    867.8   1,116.6            77        11
B. Economrc and Financial
Instittion s
Public Expenditure
Management                      31.6  104.2  136.7    414.5  1,371.3   1,785.8            77        17
Fiscal Administration            14.6   58.0   70.5    191.7    738.4        928.1         79         9
MEF Institutional
strengthening                   10.8   17.6   28.2    139.7    231.8        371.4         62         4
Subtotal                         66.7  177.8  234.6    746.9  2,339.4   3,086,2            76        30
C. Civil Service Reform
Porsonnel Administration
Rehabilitation                  27.7  100.7  128.4    385.0  1,324.5   1,689.4            78        18
.ivil Service Policy Reform    11.6   34.7   46.2    162.0    468.0          808.0         76         6
Subtotai                         39.3  136.3  174.6    617.0  1,780.6   2,297.4            77        22
D. Municipol Development            12.0   35.9   47.9    167.5    472.6         630.0         76        8
L. Support to Aoa,inistrative
Reform                          20.6   81.6   82.1    270.0    810.0   1,080.0            76        10
F. Project Management               76.4   88.9  162.3    992.3  1,143.5   21135.8             54       21
Total Baseline Costs            223.5  682.7  786.2  2,941.3  7,403.6  10,344.9            72       100
Physical Contingencies            8.5   24.3   30.8       86.4    319.4      404.8          79        4
Price Contingencies              29.0   19.0   47,9    381.2    249.4        830.8         40         8
7otal Froject Costs             269.0  606.9  884.9  3,407.9  7,972.4  11,380.3            70       110
AFSCi
11/1C/87



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
Totals including Contingencios                                       Totals including Contingenci-s
(UiM Miilion)                                                            (USS O0M)
1988   1989   1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  Total          1968      1989      1990      1991   1992   1993   1994        Total
4. Presidency
Legislativo Dept.
a Council of
inist,esr  Serv;ce       13.7   13.9   14.2   12.9   -        -      -     64.7    179.8    183.4    187.1    189.9    -            -      -        728.2
Organization A
Methods Bureau            6.8    7.0    8.8    6.3   0.4   0.2   -         25.2      74.1      92.6      88.8      89.9    6.4    2.6    -          330.9
Central Procurement
Committee                 1.6    4.4    2.8    1.7   0.9   -         -     11.2      21.4   S8.4         33.7      22.'   11.3       -     -        147.6
Subtotal                  20.9   25.4   23.4   20.0   1.3   0.2   -         91.1    275.3    334.3    307.3    262.6   16.6    2.5    -            1498.6
S. Econo nic and Financial
Institutiont
Public Expendituro
Management               33.8   48.0   37.4   19.0   8.4   1.3   -    145.8    444.7    831.0    491.8    250.6   83.8   17.0    -                1,918.S
Fiscal Admin.             15.8   23.7   16.7   13.8   6.7   1.6   1.4   77.8    208.6    312.3    208.9    181.1   76.3   20.8   18.3   1,023.8
MEF Institutional
Strengthening             4.4    8.3    7.8    5.1   1.9   1.9   2.0   31.4          57.3    109.4    102.2        86.8   24.4   25.8   28.9        412.7
Sbbtotal                  54.0   80.0   80.9   37.9  13.9   4.8   3.4  255.0    710.6  1,062.7    800.9    498.6  183.5   83.4   46.3   3.354.9
C. Civil Service Reform
Personnel Admin,
Rehabilitation           19.8   40.4   35.9   18.8  13.8   7.8   7.3  143.2    280.0    531.6    471.9    246.3  179.3  1lO.5   95.4   1,883.9
Civil Service
Poiicy Reform             9.1   13.1   13.3    9.7   4.2   -         -     49.3    119.1    171.9    17S.6    127.7   55.1    -            _        849.3
Subtotal                  28.8   63.6   49.2   28.3  17.8   7.6   7.3  192.5    379.1    703.4    847.4    373.0  234.4  10.5   96.4   2,633.2
D. Municipal Developnent    5.1   14.9   18.1   12.8   -           -     -      50.8      87.4    196.9    238.5    188.2    -          -       -        688.9
E. Support to Admi,.                                                                                                                                                  >
Reform                    3.8   21.6   22.0   22.8  19.3   -         -     89.2      49.4    283.1    288.9    297.8  254.1         -       -     1,173.2      c 7
F. Pr-oject Mansgmment       32.5   31.0   29.0   32.7  21.1  20.8  19.3  186.4    427.4    408.2    381.3    430.9  277.2  273.6  253.9   2,42. 
Total Project Costs         145.1  228.3  202.5  154.2  73.4  33.4  30.0  884.9  1,909.2  2,977.8  2,8e4.3  2,028.8  966.9  439.9  394.6  11,390.3                    -



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Table 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(UM  iillion)              (USS '000)
X Total
XForeign Base
Local Foroign  Total      Local  Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investement Costs
A. Consultancies              88.1  198.4  284.5       870.0  2,810.0   3,480.0         76    34
B. Training
1.  Local training         58.8  189.9   228.6      746.1  2,236.3   2,980.4         76    28
2.  Overseas training       -     14.4    14.4        -       190.0     190.0       100     2
Sub-total training            33.8  116.9  149.8       446.1  1,525.3   1,970.4         77    30
C. Office Equipment            8.4   67.3    83.8       83.7    763.3      837.1        90     8
D. Civil Works                 2.1    8.3      8.4      27.6      82.5     110.0        75     1
E. Vehicles                    2.0   18.2    20.2       28.6    239.4      266.0        90     3
Total Investment Costs       133.2  484.4   597.8   1,762.9  8,110.6   7,883.6          78    78
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Staff          54.4    -       54.4     716.4       -       716.4         -     7
B. Operating Expenses         36.9   98.3   134.2      473.0  1,293.0   1.788.0         73    17
Total Recurrent Costs         90.3   98.3   188.8   1,188.4  1,293.0   2,481.4          52    24
Total Baseline Costs         223.6  562.7   788.2   2,941.3  7,403.6  10,344.9          72   100
Physical Contingencies      8.6   24.3    30.8       86.4    319.4      404.8        79     4
Pri-e Contingencies        29.0   19.0    47.9      331.2    249.4      830.8        40     6
Total Project Costs          269.0  805.9  884.9   3,407.9  7,972.4  11,380.3           70   110
AF5CO
11/5/87



- 29 -
ANNEX III
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Amount of         % of Expenditures
Category                             credit allocated       to be financed
(US$ million)
1.   Consultant services,                    2.2                 100%
studies and BCIR staff
2.   Training                                2.5                 100%
3.   Equipment, Vehicles                     0.6                 100%
4.   Civil Works                             0.1                 100%
5.   Operating costs                         2.2                  90%
6.   Refinancing of Project                  1.5            Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance                                  to Section 2.02 (c)
of Development
Credit Agreement
7.   Unallocated                             0.9
10.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994
-(US$ million)-----------------------
Annual            1.5        2.3       2.5      2.0       0.9       0.4      0.4
Cumulative        1.5        3.8      6.3       8.3       9.2      9.6      10.0



30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
TS1.AM1C REPUJBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENI PROJECT
PROJIECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
SC;LHrTFE  IN1DICATORS FOR MEASURING PROJECT SUCCESS 1/
Responsibility
Comp onent                       Indicator                   Date               of
Corc Goveinrmmnt   1.  Clearly defined statutory            1988/89   Legislative
FuncEiorls              responsibilities, job                          Department
descriptions and legal
framework for decision
making in place in the
Presidency.
2.  Council of Ministers                1990       Cou.icil of
operating under new                            Ministers
strearnlined procedures,
with result that issues
can be resolved and
recommendations implemented
without delay.
3.  Functioning BOM capable of          1989       BOM
formulating and analyzing
proposals for structural
change in the organization
of the Government, and
anble to provide assistance
to various government
agencies undertaking their
own reorganization.
4.  Improved procurement                1988       Central
procedures facilitating                        Procurement
efficient purchases by                         Board
Government due to revised
procurement legislation.
I/   The implernentat ion schedule (Annex I) should serve as the basis for
Legu.tar project supervision and monitoring.



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Responsibility
Component              Indicator                           Date              of
Economic           1.  Sector reports on various          From       Planning
Management             macro-economic issues              1988       Department
produced regularly by
reorganized Planning Dept.
staffed by well-trained
economists analyzing
policy changes.
2.  Monitoring reports on              From      MEF
implementation of ERP              1987
issued on quarterly basis.
3.  Three-year rolling Public          From       Planning
Investment Program updated         1988      Dept.
yearly; consolidated
investment budget produced
annually.
4.  Reorganized Aid Coordination       1988      Aid
Department carefully monitoring              Coordination
external debt and issuing                    Department
quarterly reports (in close
collaboration with the Central
Bank) using a project-funded
debt reporting system.
5.  Clear budget procedures and        1988       Budget
circulars/forms in use,                      Dept.
facilitating data input for
PIP.
6.  Increased tax revenue due to       1989       Internal
revised public accoanting                    Revenue
framework, better integration                Dept.
of tax assessment data, more
efficient use of tax collectors,
and better trained staff.



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
Responsibility
Component              Indicator                           Date             of
Civil Service      1.  Smoothly, efficiently,              1989/90   Civil service
Reform                 equitably operating civil
service administration
staffed by well-trained
motivated civil servants;
validated personnel and
payroll records, and
computerized personnel
administration system.
2.  (a)  Reports on salary             1988       Civil service
policy, employment policy,
career development and
training reviewed by
Government.
(b)  Final reports issued          1989       Civil service
with reform implementation
measures approved by
Government.
Support to         1.  More competitive and highly         1990       BCIR
Reform                 skilled local consulting
industry capable of under-
taking broad range of
consulting assignments in
economic policy analysis
as well as financial
managemeLnt.



- 33 -
ANNEX V
Page I cf 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONSULTANT SERVICES REQUIREMENTS
Component                       Study/Task                          Person-months
Core Government      1.  Presidency: long-term advisor to
Functions                 (a) long-term advisor to Council                48
of Ministers Service/Legislative
Department;
(b) management consultant to                     8
advise on organization and
procedures;
(c) legal advisor to help                        2
revise procurement
legislation.
2.  BOM: management consultant to                   14
help in analysis of central
government structures, develop
guidelines for ministerial
reorganization, establish BOM
operating procedures and organize
on-the-job training.
Economic             3.  MEF' Planning Dept.: budget specialist           20
Management                to help modify and institutionalize
consolidated investment budget and PIP.
4.  MEF Budget Dept.: budget specialist to          12
help prepare budget forms/circulars
and improve budget procedures.
5.  Central Bank/MEF Aid Coordination               12
Dept: debt advisor to help design
and install debt monitoring
system.
6.  MEF Treasury Dept.: accountant to               12
help revise public accounting
framework and reorganize internal
reporting relationships.



- 34 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Component                       Study/Task                          Person-months
7.  MEF Internal Revenue/Treasury Depts.:           16
tax assessor/information specialist
to help improve tax assessment and
collection procedures.
8.  MEF: (a) long-term policy analyst/              24
trainer to work in Planning Dept.
(b) short-term trainers to teach               12
project planning and evaluation
courses.
9.  MEF: trainer/economist to help                   8
design training materials and
to develop in-service training
capability.
Civil Service       1C.  Civil service: systems analysts                 86
Reform                   and management consultants
to assist in implementation of
personnel administration
masterplan.
11.  Management consulting firm to                   44
undertake civil service policy
studies: salary policy, employment,
career development, training.
12.  Legal advisor to help revise civil              24
service legislation.
Local Government   13.  Short-term consultant services to                30
Reform                   undertake studies leading to
establishment of institutional,
legal and financial framework for
creation of municipalities.
Support to          14.  Consultant services to help                     80
Reform                   identify institutional constraints,
to undertake institution audits,
and to help prepare institutional
reform programs arising out of
implementation of ERP.
Project             15.  Management consultants to assist in             20
Management               management of TA (helping to identify
consultants and possible twining
arrangements, and drafting TOR).
TOTAL                                          472



- 35 -                              ANNEX V I
GOVERNMENT                                    Page 1 of 2
CMSN              CSN Sec.
Council or
Ministers       I
Minstt E                                   Ministry
PRESIDENCY
|PRESIDENT
CHIEF OF
CABINET                             SEC-GEN
CABINET                             DPT-SEC-6EN j
Legal advisel dmin. advise      Ecen. adviser
Deparlment       Central      Auditor       Financial      uncil Of
or         Procurement   6eneral       Controller      nisters
Legislation     Committee   __r_i_



- 36 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
MINISTER
I 10 ADV ISEkS 
| GENERAL           IAND FINANCE 
DIPT      EPTOFOUDETDEPT OF INTERNALJ CUS1 DET                DEPT OF
PLANING              FBDE           EVNEJTM DE                  T ATISITICS
DEPT OF AID        DET          DEPT OF PUBLIC     DOMAINE           DATA
COORDiNATION       TREASURY       ENTERPRISES         DEPT        ROCESSING DEP
CIVIL SERVICE DEPARTMENT
MINISTER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .  X....'.'''''''''''''''''
:  DIRECTOR                     I          THE                     DIRECTOR
LZZOR                    ~~~~~~~CIVIL SERVICE
CIVIL SERVICE       AUXILIARIES &        STUDIES, LEGAL
MANAGEMENT         CONTRACTUALS            AFFAIRS &
SERVICE           MANAGEMFNT          DOCUMENTATION
SERVICE              SERVICE



- 37 -
ANNEX VII
MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT (December 1984)
In Servie-
Administrations                     ----------------------------------------  Und-r recruitment   TOTAL
Civil Servants Auxiliarlos Contractuals
Presidency                                  63          184           135                   -            372
C.M.S.N. Permanence                         39           36            10                  16            101
For-egn Affairs and Cooperation             46           47            16                   2            111
Information and Tolecommunications          3S           24            10                                 69
Islamic Orientation                        234          209           143                  98            684
Interior                                  4877          261            86                 250           6264
Plan and Regional Dovelopment               42           s8             7                  39            146
Finance and Commerce                      1048          470            27                 142           1887
Fisheries and Maritime Economy              38           59            18                   -            113
Mines and Industry                          19           77             8                   -            104
Equipment and Transport                     71          120            21                  11            223
Rural Development                          376          310            40                  68            793
Hydraulics and Energy                       28           29            12                   9             78
Culture, Youth and Sports                  168          188            10                  30            394
Labour and Civil Service                    50          110            86                   -            246
Education                                 3326         1382           113                1416           6236
Health and Social Affairs                 1000         1284            80                 331           2895
TOTAL                                    11246         4q48           802                2411          19306
SOURCE: 1985 Budget Law
AFSCO:  7/02/87



- 38 -
ANNEX VIII
MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
------------------------------------
(as of 1/1/1987)
Sector                                      Number
Rural                                          173
Fisheries                                       17
Mining                                           1
Commerce/Industry                                8
Energy/Hydraulics                               21
Urban/Housing/Transport                          7
Infrastructure                                  a6
Information/Telecommunications                   9
Culture                                          1
Health                                         16S
Education                                      482
Economy and Finance                             16
Other                                           37
TOTAL                                          960
* of which 172 funded locally
SOURCE: MEF



- 39 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Background Papers
Al.       IDA.  Mauritanie:  Projet  de  Developpement  Institutionnel   -
Rapport aux Autorites Mauritaniennes (referred to in the report
as the administr .ive assessment), December 9, 1985.
Adapted in Englifh as: Mauritania - Institutional Development;
Constraints and Recommendations, WA2DB Working Papers/Reports
No. 6, July 1986.
A2.       IMF.  Projet  d'aide-memoire sur  la budgetisation  des  depenses
d'investissement de l'Etat de Mauritanie, October 1985.
A3.       De Weerd, G. Le Personnel  et les Structures de  l'Administration
Publique Mauritanienne. September 1985.
A4.       MEF. Projet d'Appui - Renforcement. I - Constat.
II - Propositions. July 1986.
A5.       MEF. Assistance Technique Etrangere. January 1987.
A6.       IDET-CEGOS.  Amelioration   de   la   Structure   Salariale   des
Entreprises  Publiques  - Les   Remunerations  de  la   Fonction
Publique. Rapport Provisoire. Novembre 1986.
B. Project Documents
B1.       Decrees 86.214/PCMSN/PG and 86.213/PCMSN/PG of December 25,  1986
respectively   creating   the   Bureau   for   Coordination    of
Institutional Reform and the Committee for Coordination of
Institutional Reform.
B2.       CNI. Gestion  Administrative des  Personnels de  l'Etat -  Schema
Directeur (2 tomes). Annexes; Cahier des Charges Materiel; Cahier
des Charges Logiciel. March 1987.
B3.       E. Berg.  The  Planning  and Budgeting  of  Public  Expenditures.
September 1987.
B4.       Terms of Reference for planning and budgeting consultants



- 40 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
B5.       Terms of Reference for Civil Service Reform Studies.
B6.       Note Technique sur la Composante Bureau Organisation et M&thodes,
May 1987.
B7.       Training Implementation Report. -- 1987
B8.       Terms of Reference for project training coordinator
B9.       Terms of Reference for MEF training coordinator
B1O.      Decree No 86.053  of March  19, 1986  establishing the  Technica.l
Working Group for Rehabilication of Civil Service Administration.
B11.      MEF.  Schema Directeur Informatique. June 1987.
B12.      MEF.   Direction  du   Tresor.  Projet   de  Multiplication   des
Structures de Recouvrement a Nouakchott. Undated.
C. Project Working Papers
Cl.       RIM. Rapport aux Autorites Mauritaniennes de la Mission Effectu~e
du 9 au 22 Juin 1986 par le Groupe de Travail Technique
Franco-Mauritanien... Undated.
C2.       EDI. Seminaire sur les Politiques  de Gestion du Developpement  -
Rapport de Pays: Mauritanie. Undated.
C3.       D. Voizot.  L'Elaboration  d'un  Tableau de  Bord  de  l'Economie
Mauritanienne. October 1985.
C4.       D. Voizot.  Le  suivi  et  la Gestion  de  la  Dette  Exterieure.
October 1985.
C5.       P. Bouvier. La Comptpbilite de l'Etat Mauritanien. Undated.
C6.       MEF. Direction Generale des Douanes. Fiches de Travail par  Poste
Administratif. Undated.
C7.       SOMECOMP.   Operations  de  Demarrage  et  d'Organisation  de  la
Coordination  du  Projet   de  Developpement  Institutionnel   et
Administratif et de la Reforme. May 1987.



IBRD 16452R
AA
MAUR I TAN IA
--.           pa  [ C, AD,
PAVFD,  ,AD, I,  ,   l   .    .-,.-                                                                              |
_   _  ,,,j rP teA' .)D
-- -- --  .I A  ifk R,A   ,) D
_     R A, R A
A bf lA I1 DS         
,     *      ~~~.- i,A O\Y'NAI A RVOT3                                                                                       |             \W
_  -    -X)f,lEAT.O'.A. BOj:ARES                                         \ 
,.D CA'ES 1E AufPiTOR Ot T.E                                    \    '.'\
F,  SPANSsH SA-'APA                                                                r
.': t S ~~TrtR '  S A -A R A \:_  
F D R M  E Pi                                  |                                                                        .
,'~~f~fS~ SA'A,,   I ;   .. ------------
g;45 ~ ~ ~ ~~d  o-                                         AR                                  ./,                                                                          :
t   [         ' akhloc.s                                              A      zA--                        .~~~sego
j   (Vk,tla-C,s,orost,
* ,,>e i .. ...--- -~RrI                                           A 
l                                              !Xy       .; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------- 
~~~~ -'/h             -
,, .... ,d t,- , . ' .(~oncakaet
,g I                                                                                          N,
[                                                          -  ~~~~~~~~h'~~~~g e"~~V J
E G~~~~~~~dv
NCJiAKCHCT T                                                                    '- -    -F                                                                     198
r-. *5o-rd  7,       ~      .        '- '4           \~,      *'            -- _- Nt,re  't5 
ti. \\ ~~~~~ 4F !,"N   / 'ere                                        A        Ho"'   ,       rnXboe~       'j
/~~                                 ~ ~~~~~                    ~         ~~~ z, - {     .Nro aSoe
DAKAR%C}                               Bclre                                                   A    L 
C LL N E G A~~~~                                                       _ , '1~., '   ' .-    S   1''<        ,t._{'  I  '
i        "-                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'2'                    a
FEBR'UARY 1985



