Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1865 MAU
                 (Development Management Project)
                              between
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 12, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1865 MAU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  February  12,  1988,  between  the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC  OF  MAURITANIA  (the  Borrower)  and  the  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  has  received  from  the  French Republic
through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) a contribution in
an amount evaluated  at  the  equivalent  of four hundred thousand
dollars to assist in carrying out a part of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation  Advance"  means  the  two advances
granted by the Association  to  the Borrower pursuant to exchanges
of letters dated January 22,  1986  and  April 4, 1986 (No. P-360)
and October 29, 1987 and  December  14, 1987 (No. P-360-1) between
the Borrower and the Association;
     (c)  "BCIR"   means   the    Bureau   for   Coordination   of
Institutional Reform  established  by  Arrete  No. 86.214/PCMSN/PG
dated December 25, 1986; and
     (d)  "CCIR"  means   the   Committee   for   Coordination  of
Institutional Reform  established  by  Decree  No. 86.213/PCMSN/PG
dated December 25, 1986.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,900,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in  accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1  to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in convertible  ouguiyas  a special account in a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
Page  3
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing  May  15,  1998  and  ending  November  15,  2027. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 15, 2007, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project under the
overall coordination of BCIR with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with  appropriate administrative, training, economic
planning and financial  management  practices,  and shall provide,
Page  4
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to carry out the Project, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  at all times maintain  BCIR with such functions, respon-
sibilities and qualified and experienced staff, including the head
of BCIR, in adequate numbers, all  as shall be satisfactory to the
Association;
     (b)  (i)  prepare annual Action  Programs  detailing for each
               Project component the activities  to be carried out
               during the year;
         (ii)  by October 31  of  each  year  the Project is being
               implemented, submit  said  action  programs and the
               budget proposals related thereto to the Association
               for its review and approval; and
        (iii)  implement  said  action  programs  as  promptly  as
               possible.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  (i)   establish  within  the   Presidency  a  Bureau  of
                Organization and  Methods  by  December  31, 1988,
                with functions  and  responsibilities satisfactory
                to  the   Association   and   with  qualified  and
                experienced staff in adequate numbers;
         (ii)   prepare a  progress  report  on activities carried
                out by such Bureau and review said report with the
                Association no later  than  July  30,  1991 with a
                view  to   assessing   the   Bureau's  operational
                efficiency; and
         (iii)  promptly implement  all  recommendations resulting
                from said review;
     (b)  take all measures required  to ensure that instructional
materials aimed at  disseminating  tax  information  to the public
shall be sold and, unless  the  Borrower and the Association agree
otherwise, at full cost;
     (c)  carry out the studies  referred  to  under Part C (2) of
the Project and  submit  to  the  Association  for  its review and
comments the interim reports of said studies by April 30, 1989 and
the final reports thereof by February 28, 1990;
     (d)  ensure  that  the   restructuring   of  the  departments
responsible for planning, aid  coordination and budgeting is fully
completed by June 30, 1988; and
     (e)  no  later  than  December   31,   1989,  submit  to  the
Association, for its  approval,  all  proposals developed to carry
out Part E (2) and (4) of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
Page  5
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, audited  for  each fiscal year, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               or payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts  and  other   documents)  evidencing  such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals or payments  out of the Special
               Account.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that BCIR or CCIR shall have been dissolved without prior approval
by the Association.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in  Section  5.O1 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue  for  a  period  of  30 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
     Section  6.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  CCIR has become operational;
     (b)  the  training  officer  in  the  Borrower's  Ministry of
Economy and Finance has taken up his position;
     (c)  the senior  training  officer  located  in  the National
School of Administration has taken up his position; and
     (d)  the Association has  received  Action Programs satisfac-
tory to the Association for activities to be carried out under the
Project during 1988.
     Section 6.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
planning is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
          B.P. 230
          Nouakchott
          Islamic Republic of Mauritania
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MEF                             540 MTN
                Nouakchott
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Page  7
                          By /s/ Abdellah Ould Daddah
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                    80,000       100%
(2)  Equipment,                    480,000       100%
     vehicles,
     furniture,
     materials and
     supplies
(3)  Consultants'                1,690,000       100%
     and experts'
     services and
     salaries for
     BCIR staff
(4)  Training                    1,970,000       100%
(5)  Operating                   1,700,000       90%
     costs
     (excluding
     salaries)
(6)  Refunding of                1,180,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   800,000
                                 _________
     TOTAL                       7,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures for such costs incurred  by the BCIR as well as
expenditures for  routine  maintenance  of  computers  and  of the
vehicles and  equipment  purchased  under  Category  (2) above and
subsistence expenses for Project-related travel.
Page  8
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Borrower to:
(a) implement measures required to carry out its economic recovery
and structural adjustment programs;  and (b) undertake a long-term
administrative reform program aimed at streamlining administrative
processes, strengthening personnel management and increasing civil
service performance.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Services of the Presidency
1.   Strengthening of processes for preparation and programming of
matters  for  deliberation  by   the   Council  of  Ministers  and
establishment of processes  for  monitoring  implementation of key
government decisions.
2.   Improving the functioning of the Department of Legislation.
3.   Establishment of the Bureau  of  Organization and Methods and
development of guidelines and procedures for its operations.
4.   Strengthening the management of public procurement.
Part B:   Economic Management
1.   Strengthening  capabilities  of  the  Borrower's  Ministry of
Economy and Finance and in  the  Central Bank of Mauritania in the
fields of:
     (a)  investment projects analysis, planning and programming;
     (b)  external aid coordination and external debt management;
     (c)  budget preparation and execution; and
     (d)  tax assessment and revenues collection.
2.   Development and execution of a training program to strengthen
specialized skills of staff.
3.   Development and implementation  of  an economic and financial
data processing master plan.
Part C:   Civil Service Reforms
1.   Streamlining of administrative processes and establishment of
standardized    personnel    management    information    systems;
refurbishing and  equipping  of  office  space  and acquisition of
computer equipment and software for the purpose.
2.   Development and implementation  of a long-term administrative
reform  program,  including  a   series   of  studies  to  develop
appropriate  policies   for   civil   service  employment,  career
development, compensation and training.
3.   Reform of the civil service legal framework.
4.   Establishment  of  a  documentation  center  at  the National
School for Administration.
Page  9
5.   Establishment of a training  unit  in the National School for
Administration.
Part D:   Additional Administrative Reforms
1.   Strengthening  of  the  Ministry's  capability  to  supervise
efficiently the functioning  of  local government institutions and
monitor  the  proper  execution  of  the  ongoing decentralization
program.
2.   Assistance to implement the institutional and legal framework
for local governments and training for relevant Ministry and local
government staff.
Part E:   Institutional Building
1.   Establishment of CCIR  and  BCIR  and acquisition of required
equipment, furniture, vehicles, materials and supplies.
2.   Diagnostic  studies  to  assess  needs,  define institutional
policies  and  goals,  and  develop  and  implement reorganization
schemes for the  Ministry  of  Fisheries  and Maritime Economy and
the offices of the Auditor-General.
3.   A program  to  build  up  local  expertise  in the consulting
industry.
4.   Definition and execution  of  further activities necessary to
sustain the administrative reform program.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  equipment  and
vehicles shall be grouped  in  bid  packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All civil works and  equipment,  furniture and vehicles which
cannot be grouped in packages  of at least $100,000 equivalent may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with the procedures
described in paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.   Items  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of  $20,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $600,000 without the prior  approval of the Association, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three reputable
suppliers in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph
3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.  Review of invitations to  bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph (a), the procedures  set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants and Experts
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall   employ   consultants   and  experts  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such consultants and
experts  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
55,000,000 ouguiyas to be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
Page  11
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for  a  deposit  or  deposits  which  add  up  to  the  Authorized
Allocation, the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account  at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts  as  the  Association  shall  specify. On the
basis of such requests,  the  Association  shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
not exceeding the  amount  of  payments  made  out  of the Special
Account for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such  deposits shall be
withdrawn by the  Association  from  the  Credit Account under the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association, prior to
or at the time  of  any  request  for replenishment of the Special
Account, or at the request  of the Association, such documents and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
Page  12
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
