- < A .. -L. ....   --...
r-L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~         
cdrp             ~0 



ANNEX
INDIA
ORISSA STATE POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A. Environmental impact Snm
1.    Enmental Inact of the Reform Progm  The overall enviromnental impact of the
reform program is expected to be significantly positive. Higher electricity tariffs and improved
metering and collection will encourage electricity conservation. Orissa's exsting thermal
generation will be renovated and new capacity will be constructed and operated by private utilities
in accordance with moden practices and applicable national environmental standards, which are
in line with Bank standards. All three major ongoing generation projects in Orissa are being
developed in accordance with the Bank Group environmental standards: the Upper Indravati
project and NTPC's Talcher are both supported by the Bank under earlier operations; lb units 3-4
by IFC (approved in July 1994). Transmission and distnrbution rehablitation, load
nuanagement/electricity onservation and technical assistance under the proposed Project will
significantly reduce power system losses and help improve the efficiency of electricity
consumption, thereby also contribute to contaning environmental emissions.
2.    The two main investment components to be financed under the proposed Bank loan, Part
A' Transmission and Distnbution and Part B: Load ManagementlEectricity Conservation are
discussed below. They account for USS 300 million or about 86 % of the total loan amount The
details of the watershed management plan to be financed under Part E: Upper Indravat, are also
given. That component is estimated to require about US$ 15 million under the Bank loan or
about 4 % of the total loan amount. The balance of the loan, US$ 35 million, is allocated to Part
C: Technical Assistance, Upper Indravati resettlement and rehabilitation under Part D.
B. Part A: Transmission And Distnbution
Introduction
3.          Three trnsmission line projects have been remiewed and wil be included in the
first phase of the loan. Additional projects will be submitted during Project implementation. The
environmental issues related to these transmission and distribution projects in general and to the
three selected projects individually are discussed below. Environmental analyses w.:i1 be submitted
for all subsequent projects as they are prepared, in line with agreed appraisal criteria
I



Enviromnental Assessment and Clearance Process
Forest Clearance:
4.    Under the 1980 Conservatior. of Forest Act, approval for new lines must be obtained from
the NMnistry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) regional office. Power line routing in India
undergoes extensive review in the project planning stage. Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB)
and under the Project its successor, the Grid Corporation of Crssa (GRIDCO) must demonstrate
that the power hine routing involves a minimum of forest land with alternative route surveys. The
alternative routes are surveyed jointly by GRIDCO engineers and GOO's Department of Forest
(DOF) personneL During the application review and approval process the review agencies
comment on the application, and can return it to GRIDCO for required modifications. MOEF
Clearance is not required if the joint line survey concludes that no forest land is involved; in this
case DOF will issue a letter to this effect. In case forest land is involved, the application
undergoes the following stages of review:
(a)   GRIDCO submi the application to the Dimsional Forest Officer,
(b)   Divisional Forest Officer, after review and clearance, submits the application to the
Conservator of Forest;
(c)   Conservator of Forest, after review and dearance, submits the application to the
Principal Chief Conservator of Forest;
(d)   Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, after review and clearance, submits the
application to the Forest Department, Govermment of Orissa;
(e)   Principal Secretary, Forest Depament, Government of Orissa, after review and
clearance, submits the application to the MOEF Inspector General. The Advisory
Committee of the Forest Department reviews the application and calls in the
beneficiaries, GRIDCO and the State Forest Officer, to discuss the proposal; and
(f)   approval comes to the Principal Secretary, Forest Departnent of Orissa. The
approval will contain details of any compensatory forest land approved by the
Revenue and Forest Departments. The land for compensatory afforestation is
provided by the state govemment; in addition, an assessment is made on a per acre
basis for compensatory afforestation activities.
Land Acquisition:
5.    Under the Indian Telegraph Act, transmission towers can be erected on private land,
however, compensation must be paid. The ownership of the land is not acquired by the
tansmission company.
2



Assessment Of Three Transmission Projects For Inclusion In The Project
Project descriptions
6.    The following three transmiission projects wil be included in the first phase of the loan.
220 kV DC BrajLarajnagar - Bolangir:
7.    The construction activities include:
(a)   construction of a 220 kV DC line (170 km) from Brajrajnagar to Bolangir;
(b)   establishment of a 220/132 kV 1 x 100 MVA substation at Bolangir,
(c)   extension of two 220 kV feeder bays at Brajrajnagar, and
(d)   establishment of a PLCC network for the above.
220 kV DC Meramundali - Bidanasi:
8.    The construction activities include:
(a)   construction of 220 kV DC line (105 hIn) from Meramundali to Chandaka;
(b)   establsment of a 220/132 kV 2 x 100 MVA substation at Cuttack
(c)   extension of feeder bays at Meramundi and Chandaka; and
(d)   establishment of a PLCC network for the above.
220 kV DC Duburi - Paradip:
9.    The construction activities include:
(a)   construction of 220 kV DC line (100 km) from Duburi to Paradeep;
(b)   establishment of a 220/132 kV 2 x 100 MVA substation at Paradeep;
(c)   extension of two 220 kV feeder bays at Duburi;
3



(d)   inter-linking 220 kV Paradeep substation with Paradeep existing 132 kV
substation, (8 kon of 132 kV DC line); and
(e)   establishment of a PLCC network for the above.
Environmental issues and mitigation strategies
10.   The issues below have been addressed during the conceptual design.
Resttlement and rehabilitation:
11.   There will be no resettlement involved in the above projects.
Transmission line rights of way and substation site impacts on land use: agiclturl forest areas
wetlands. wildlands:
12.   The 220 kV DC Duburi - Paradip and the 220 kV DC Meramundali - Bidanasi
transmission lines do not cross forest land.. The 220 kV DC Brajaraniagar - Bolangir tasmission
line involves 5 ha of forest land. With such a small amount of forest land involved, habitat
fragmentation and invasion of exotic vegetadon species would not be an issue. The application for
MOIEF Clearance is currently being processed. Transmission line towers will not impact
agricultural land uses since the transmission company does not acquire ownership of the rights of
way. There are no wildlands involved in the transmission line routes.
Access roads in remote areas increase in hunting exploitation of forest resources, induced
developnent due to new access coridors. human settlement and more extensive clearing:
13.   With only 5 ha of forest land involved in one of the projects, these issues are not of
concern. Existing forest roads are used by GRIDCO for access, no new roads are built for this
purpose.
Clearing (erosion. loss of habitat) and control of vegetation in rights of ways. including
mechanical and chemical (herbicide) clearing operations. (chemical contamination of site and
rainfall runoff):
14.   After the power lines are strung on the towers, the forest department re-vegetates the
areas that have been cleared for construction. Chemical herbicides are not used in right-of-way
clearance.
Erosion during constructio. and along access roads, substation and transmission tower sites:
4



15.   GRIDCO will undertake a monitoring program of construction activities, steps will be
taken to control these impacts during construction Maintenance of the new ifrastructure will
include erosion control at the transnission tower bases (especially in hilly terrain) and substation
pads.
Potential electromagnetic frequengy (EMMd) radiation effects, radio noise and television
interference, and audible noise along transmission line routes. exposure of substation opertions
eonnel to potential EMF hazards:
16.   GOI regulations (Indian Electricity Rules, 1956) on minimum transmission lne clearance
distances to address safety and EMF effects are applied by GRIDCO. The Rules specifyr minim
horizontal and vertical distances between power lines, roads and structures, and cover proximity
to airports.
Public access to substations towers and electrocution hazrd  proximity to airports:
17.          GRIDCO will effect restriction of public access, by fencing and security of
substations and towers (required under Indian Electricity Rules). A consumer safety program is
icluded in the ODA technical assistance. The Indian Electicity Rules cover safety vnth regard to
tra    ng and storing materials near overhead lines, accessibility of bare conductors, danger
notices, provisions applicable to protective equipment, precautions to be adopted by consumers,
owners, electrical contractors, electrical workmen and suppliers, and inspections. The Indin
Electricity Rules also address safety and protective devices, such as distance relays and ground
fault protection.
Alternatives
18.         Alternaties selected by OSEB were based on cntena of energy conservation
through improved efficiency of the trnsmission system, that is, reduction of system losses and
increased reliability of the system. Load management/electricity cownservation will be addressed
under the Project. Routes and substation sites are selected for minimum impact on forest
resources (a statutory requirement), and minimal impact on crowded urban areas, (substation
placement in Cuttack rather than Bhubaneswar for instance). The transmission schemes chosen
are double-circuit (DC) lines to minimize rights of way requirements.
Technical Assistance
19.         A technical assistance component of the project will be provided under an ODA
grant, to begin in the last quarter of 1995, extending for a period of three years. Under this
technical assistance the environmental management capabilities of the Grid Corporation of Orissa
(GRIDCO) will be developed. The objective of the technical assistance is to introduce
5



environmental management systems throughout GRIDCO, it's suppliers, and it's network of
distributors. Activities of the ODA technical assistance will include:
(a)   development of an organization and staffing plan for the environmental
management unit (based on comparisons with similar utilities on an international
basis, as well as industrial organizations operating within the environmental
performance standards of GOI);
(b)   development of a staffing plan for hiring or retraining skilled environmental staff
(which will include a salary survey of environmental professionals and technicians
in the public and private sectors), together with the definition of services that could
most cost-effectively be provided by consultants;
(c)   development of a financial plan for the environmental unit;
(d) development of a corporate environmental policy for GRJDCO;
(e)   ensure that contractual obligations or other measures are put into place on
privatized generation and distribution to comply with GRDCO's environmental
policies;
(0)   development of systems to enable GRlDCO to meet the requirements of relevant
Indian (and where appropriate international) environmental standards in a cost
effective and efficient way,
(g)   development of systems to ensure that actions recommended by the environmental
management unit are acted upon by corporate management in GRLDCO, and
define methods to evaluate and monitor performance with respect to project
implementation;
(h)   development of an approach to consumer education in energy savings and a
customer advisory service;
(3)    a coordinated in-country training program for staff ofthe environmental
management unit of GRIDCO;
0)    evaluation of alteative strategies for improving energy efficiency;
(k)   establish an educational program to improve consumer safety;
(I)   develop capabilities with respect to environmental auditing;
6



(m)   undertake a study tour to assess environmental management systems associated
with UK transmission and distnbution systems;
(n)   support GRIDCOs planning capability for new transmission systems by developing
environmental assessment (EA) procedures and establishing criteria for evaluating
direct and indirect environmental and social impacts associated with new
*                     development proposals;
(o)   undertake Eks of selected routes and standardize approaches adopted on issues
such as land severance; and
(p)   development of a system of energy audits and energy efficiency, and set targets
based on demand side management.
Management of Polvchlorinated BipheMnls (PCB's)
20.         Prior to initiation of power distribution system rehabilitation under the Project,
when electrical equipment will be replaced, technical assistance will be provided to GRIDCO for
the environmentally sound management of PCB electrical equipment. The technical assistance will
cover management and cleanup of transformer installations, discarded equipment, and the repair
shop. This technical assistance will be provided by Monenco (specific projects) and ODA (staff
training).
21.         Various components of the existing power systems are up to 30 years old, and
since the use of PCB's in electrical equipment was discontinued (in most countries) fairly recently,
some of the existing power system electrical equipment probably contains PCB's. The technical
assistance will address the following:
(a)   development of environmental guidelines which review GOI (or international)
regulations concerning the use, retrofitting, storage and disposal practices for
PCB's and PCB electrical equipment;
(b)   environmental guidelines should state which of the existing system electrical
equipment would be replaced, and if any of this equipment has been tested for
PCBs;
(c)   the environmental guidelines should detai how PCB electTical equipment and
PCB's would be tested or otherwise identified; and
(d)   the environmental guidelines should detail an environmentally sound PCB
management plan for safe storage and/or disposal of PCB electrical equipment.
The PCB management plan should include specifications for safe handling
7



practices, including personnel protective equipment and clothing, and the
environmental guidelines should provide details of safe transfer and secure storage
areas.
Monitoring
22.         The following monitoring plan will be adopted as a policy of GRIDCO to track the
effectiveness of mitigation techniques, and address recognized problems in an appropriate and
timely manner. Development of a system for bringing environmental problems to the attention of
management is included in the ODA technical assistance. Some of the items listed under the
following monitoring program do not relate to the three projects proposed; however, these issues
may relate to other GRIDCO transmission lines. This regular scheduled monitoring program will
consist chiefly of visual inspections during construction and operation for:
(a)   erosion along access roads, substation and transmission tower foundations;
(b)   encroachment of settlenents within rights of ways, encroachment of settlements
within protected areas via transmission line access roads, exploitation of forest
resources in protected areas via access roads;
(c)   vegetation clearances below transmission lines, and invasion of exotic species
along right of ways;
(d)   transformer fluid leakage and spills; and
(e)   safe storage and disposal of PCBs.
C: Part B: Load Management/Electricity Conservation
23.   The overall environmental impact of the reform program is expected to be significantly
positive. Higher electricity tariffs and improved metering and collection will encourage electricity
conservation. Based on the work of the Metering Worldng Group ofthe Refonn Implementation
Organization, about 2/3 of OSEB's meters are not worldng properly or are not functioning at all.
Part B will help GRIDCO purchase and install reliable meters to replace them. The
implementation (physical installation) involves no impact on the enviromnent. Once installed and
operational, the meters will facilitate accurate metering and on that basis correct billing of
consumers. Along with the increases in electricity rates introduced since 1992 and continuing
program of tariff adjustments, this will send the right price signals to consumers (fir the first time
for most ofthem) and is expected to help contain the growth of electricity demand in Orissa. This
in turn will result in lower emissions from the generation plants that are operated to meet the
demand and help defer some of the new generation projects.
8



24.   The balance of Part B is for load research and direct measures to manage load and
conserve electricity. The load research program will help GRIDCO better understand how its
consumers use electricity. This will help in design of more effective tariff structures, which are
i        more responsive to the needs of the consumers and load management/conservation potential.
25.   Part B will also support a pilot program of load management/electricity conservation
investments. A comprehensive technical assistance program will be implemented to help
GRDCO and electricity end-users design and implement actual measures.
9



