                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30269




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-20006 CPL-40140 SCL-4014A)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                                FOR AN

                       ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                            December 9, 2004




Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                          Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
                                Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                               US$ 1.00 = Rs 45.93

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            April 1  -   March 31


                          Measures and Equivalents

                     1 kilovolt (kV)    =      1,000 volts
            1 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)      =     1,000 volts-amperes
                   1 megawatt (MW)       =      1,000 kilowatts = 1 million watts
               1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)     =     1,000 watt-hours
             1 megawatt-hour (MWh)       =     1,000 kilowatt-hours
              1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)      =     1,000,000 kilowatt-hours


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

            AES              -       AES Transpower Incorporation
            BSES             -       Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply
            CAS              -       Country Assistance Strategy
            CESC             -       Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation
            DSM              -       Demand-Side Management
            ERR              -       Economic Rate of Return
            GOI              -       Government of India
            GOO              -       Government of Orissa
            GRIDCO           -       Grid Corporation of Orissa
            HSE              -       Health, Safety and Environment
            NTPC             -       National Thermal Power Corporation
            OERC             -       Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission
            OHPC             -       Orissa Hydro Power Corporation
            OPGC             -       Orissa Power Generation Corporation
            OSEB             -       Orissa State Electricity Board
            PLF              -       Power Load Factor
            SAR              -       Staff Appraisal Report
            SCF              -       Standard Conversion Factor
            WTP              -       Willingness-to-Pay

                        Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                       Country Director    Michael F. Carter
                        Sector Manager     Penelope J. Brook
Task Team Leader/ICR Task Team Leader:     Judith K. Plummer/Alan F. Townsend

                                            INDIA
                         Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Map IBRD 26751                                                          39
Annex 9. Financial Performance                                                   40

Project ID: P035170                                                  Project Name: Orissa Power Sector Restructuring
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Judith K. Plummer                                       TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project                L/C/TF Number: TF-20006; CPL-40140;
                                                                                                     SCL-4014A
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (99%); Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Climate change (S); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/06/1994                                     Effective: 09/24/1996                09/24/1996
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR: 05/14/1999                  05/14/1999
      Approval: 05/14/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/GOVERNMENT OF ORISSA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Penelope J. Brook                              Jean-Francois Bauer
Team Leader at ICR:             Judith K. Plummer                              Kari J. Nyman
ICR Primary Author:             Alan Townsend


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



*  The loan was suspended from July 9, 2001 until January 23, 2002.

The Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project was a complex and challenging project. Orissa
became the first state in India to launch an ambitious reform program based on unbundling, partial
privatization, and implementation of a new regulatory framework. This approach, in modified
form, was subsequently followed in several other major Indian states. But in Orissa itself,
restructuring and reform remained a work-in-progress by the end of the project. The sector was
unbundled, major components of distribution and generation were privatized, and a regulatory
agency was established. Service quality has improved. But one private distribution company
(CESCO) had had its license suspended, and was under state administration. More critically,
financial and operational issues continue to plague the sector. Even with some progress in
reducing losses and improving collections over the course of the eight years of the project,
distribution companies lose about one of every two units of power they buy in bulk, either
through technical loss, theft, or non-collection of bills. Debt has increased and cannot be
serviced, but even so retail tariffs have not been adjusted in nearly four years; this situation is
aggravated by the fact that some of the investments financed by the loan have not come into
service yet and may remain unproductive investments for some time. Orissa is at a crossroads:
the state has benefited significantly, compared to the alternative of no reform, but even so the
power sector requires a massive financial overhaul so that the achievements of the project can be
saved and built upon. It is for this reason, primarily, that at this time (December 2004) the overall
outcomes of the project are rated as "unsatisfactory." With a financial recovery plan in place and
under implementation, a more positive assessment of the project would almost certainly be
merited. Without such a plan, the positive impacts of the project in Orissa may well prove to be
unsustainable.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

          The objectives of the project were to: 1) implement a program of regulatory,
institutional and tariff reforms in Orissa's power sector; 2) support the institutional development
of the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission, the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) and
the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC); 3) reinforce and rehabilitate Orissa's power
system and its demand side management to make power supply and consumption more efficient;
and 4) upgrade the environmental performance of the power sector, and strengthen the
environmental management capabilities of the power utilities. The project was intended to
address comprehensively the challenges of power sector development in the state. Restructuring
and unbundling would be supported through a major program of institutional strengthening,
reinforced by new forms of commercial relationships and regulatory disciplines. Meanwhile,
significant investment in rehabilitating and expanding the transmission and distribution network
would deliver better service to customers and enable expected load growth, especially among
industrial customers, to be met. Demand-side and environmental management strengthening were
to be integral parts of the program.

3.1.1     Assessment: The Project Development Objectives were highly relevant in the Orissa
context at that time. In 1993, the Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB) was the worst
performing SEB of any major state, blackouts and brownouts were common, and only about 20%
of the households in the state were connected to the grid. The power sector was a major fiscal



                                                 - 2 -

burden on the state, and inefficiency, losses, and corruption were endemic. The PDOs were in
line with Bank strategy in the power sector. Orissa became the first Indian state to embrace what
was then a new, and bold, power sector restructuring model for India. OSEB would undergo a
comprehensive vertical and horizontal restructuring, leading to private participation in distribution
and generation, the eventual introduction of competition first in bulk power and eventually in
retail supply services, and establishment of a new, independent agency to regulate the sector.
Orissa's lead was followed by the embrace of this model in other major Indian states including
Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Rajasthan. State-level power sector interventions
were an essential component of the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) at the time, and
states that stepped forward for power sector assistance were generally states in which the Bank
had broader assistance programs. Orissa was no exception, where the Bank was and is active in
power, water, roads, health, and education. Orissa also has obtained a state adjustment loan in
FY05.

3.1.2     The project was recognized as high risk from the beginning. Orissa was a very
challenging state in which to engage in major power sector reform. Its population was then and is
now only about half as rich as the all-India average, its economy relatively dependent on heavy
industry, and it had a long history of governance issues. Complicating matters further was the
fact that power sector restructuring in India in the early 1990s was a trip into uncharted waters ­
it had never been done at the state level, and the central level was unprepared to deal with,
efficiently, the complex questions for which it had responsibility. As such, while the basic
ingredients of the restructuring model were fairly simple ­ horizontal and vertical restructuring,
privatization, competition, and regulatory reform were well established then as international best
practice (and in fact, remain best practice today) ­ the state and national context in which the
reform would be implemented was complex, challenging, and capacity-constrained.


3.2 Revised Objective:

          Project objectives were not revised.


3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1     Reinforcing and Rehabilitating the Transmission and Distribution Systems and
Developing Private Power Distribution (US$599 million, or 81% of the project's $740-million
base cost) ­ the project was designed to assist in rehabilitation of the network to reduce high
losses, to enable the network to meet the demand for power, and to complement the reform
objective of developing commercially viable, efficient utilities. Sub-projects covered 400, 220,
and 132 kV transmission lines and substations; 33, 11, and 0.4 kV sub-transmission and
distribution lines; and substations, capacitors, and non-technical loss reduction. This component
also financed a portion of initial working capital, vehicles, transformer workshops, laboratory
equipment, and other items, contributing to the institutional development of Gridco.

3.3.2     Demand-Side Management (US$97 million, 13% of base cost) ­ a mix of pricing
reform, metering, and other load management and conservation strategies was to be funded. The
metering program covered 13,600 meters for grid sub-stations and the largest customers, 27,500



                                                  - 3 -

three phase meters for other large customers, and 600,000 single phase meters for small
consumers.

3.3.3      Institutional Development, Training, and Technical Assistance (US$44 million, 6% of
base cost) ­ this component encompassed technical assistance to help with project management,
development of the regulatory commission, distribution privatization, new generation capacity
procurement, competitive market evolution, Gridco and OPHC institution building, environmental
and DSM management, and staff rationalization and training.

3.3.4      Assessment: The components were well-related to the PDOs but might have been better
designed in their specific details. The 400 kV transmission investments should have been
explicitly tied to the development of new generation capacity in the Ib Valley, to which they were
to have been dedicated. Cancellation of this power plant project in 2001 has meant that the
largest single Bank-financed investment in the project will not be used until at least 2008. The
weak institutional capacity of OSEB might have argued for greater selectivity in sub-project
selection ­ this is especially true of the non-metering parts of the DSM component. The inclusion
of significant investment funds for loss reduction and meters was entirely appropriate. Also
noteworthy was the substantial but appropriate allocation for technical and advisory assistance,
which provided an adequate level of continuous support over a long period of time for a variety of
activities (of which support for Gridco institution building, OERC development and operational
support, and distribution transaction advice were the most important). In the event, thanks to
significant support of this component by DFID, heavy demand for technical assistance was met to
the tune of over $75-million over the course of the project. Finally, the project might have put
less emphasis on the move to a competitive market in Orissa. The impossibility of implementing a
competitive power market before basic prerequisites are in place is now well-recognized. Passage
of the Electricity Act 2003 at the federal level now sets the stage for Orissa to manage better a
staged transition to more competition, provided that further reform can be implemented to put the
sector on a firm financial footing.


3.4 Revised Components:


           There was no formal revision of components. Faster-than-expected privatization of
distribution companies necessitated subsidiary loan agreements with the four discoms. Out of an
initial loan of $350 million, a total of $95 million in financing for civil works, equipment and
materials was cancelled, at Government of India and Orissa's request, in two tranches: $60
million effective October 10, 2001, and $35 million effective from February 18, 2003, since it was
clear that the amounts could not be used before the loan closing date. The DSM component was
most significantly reduced, with only about one third of the original $96-million target actually
disbursed. Two extensions were granted, the first of 13 months until January 31, 2004, and the
second of five months until June 30, 2004; these extensions were justified on the basis of
maximizing the probability of achievement of the project's development objectives.


3.5 Quality at Entry:


           Satisfactory. Reform aspects in particular were very well prepared ­ the Orissa


                                                  - 4 -

Electricity Reform Act had been enacted on January 10, 1996 and came into effect on April 1,
1996 ­ a major accomplishment, given that preparation work had only started in earnest in 1993.
The Act created the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission (OERC) which by March 1997 had
issued its first tariff ruling. The Act also created the successor agencies to the OSEB, including
Grid Corporation of Orissa (Gridco, upon formation including transmission and distribution
assets) and Orissa Hydropower Corporation (OHPC). Capacity at Gridco and in the State's
Department of Energy was severely constrained in the projects early years, leading to major
delays in procurement and later problems in contract administration (especially payments to
contractors). Here the quality at entry can be questioned, as the project team overestimated the
implementation readiness of the investment and DSM programs. It is hard, though, to fault the
project team for moving as rapidly as possible to corporate formation and learn-by-doing in the
course of implementation. A final quality issue concerns the load forecast and whether or not this
provided an adequate basis for programming the investment component. In hindsight, it is very
clear that the load forecast was overly optimistic about demand growth, particularly from the
industrial segment. As will be discussed in section 8 (Lessons Learned) some of the risks related
to the load forecast might have been better mitigated.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


          Unsatisfactory. The project has nominally achieved many of its development
objectives; other than, notably, in the area of demand side management, and more critically with
regard to tariff reform. The biggest single achievement of the project is that today, Orissa is the
only state in India in which the power sector is a contributor to, rather than a drain on, the state
budget. Since privatization of distribution, no direct subsidy has been paid to the sector. Sales of
the Talcher and OPGC power plants, and of the stakes in the discoms, were worth about
$250-million, over half of which went directly to the state budget. OPGC in particular has been a
profitable holding (the state share is 51%) which has regularly paid dividends. However, the
sustainability of this and other achievements is in significant doubt. The sector remains very weak
financially despite improvements from the early 1990s. Net profits for the T&D sector as a whole
have been negative for every year of the project (see Table 1). Earnings (before interest and
depreciation) have been positive only in wet years, when Gridco is able to sell surplus power from
its hydro purchase contracts with OHPC at a substantial profit. During drought years, as in
FY2003, EBID and net profits for the sector are steeply negative. There may not be action on
tariffs until next year, when a multi-year tariff may be implemented by OERC, meaning that ­
assuming tariffs are indeed increased ­ there will have been no increase in tariffs for over four
years (the last retail tariff increase was in February 2001). Orissa needs a financeable recovery
plan for the sector, but immediate prospects for such a plan are not good, despite discussions
among the stakeholders that go back well over two years. This section assesses outcomes against
objectives of the project.


                               Table 1: Financial Performance of the
                                     Power Sector (T&D only)
                                               EBID               Net Profit
                            FY              Rs Billion            Rs Billion



                                                    - 5 -

                              1997                 -0.96                  -2.95
                              1998                 -1.05                  -3.19
                              1999                 -2.29                  -5.79
                              2000                 -0.27                  -5.24
                              2001                  0.34                  -5.83
                              2002                  1.43                  -5.24
                              2003                 -3.89                -11.33
                              2004                  5.25                  -1.77



4.1.1       Objective 1: Implementing a program of regulatory, institutional and tariff reforms in
Orissa's power sector. Unsatisfactory. While the overall outcome of the reform objective is
disappointing, the assessment must be seen in light of progress on individual reform components.

4.1.2       On the institutional side, the project: a) unbundled the Orissa State Electricity Board,
and corporatized the successor entities; b) created the Grid Corporation of Orissa (Gridco) and
the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC); c) created the Orissa Electricity Regulatory
Commission (OERC); and d) introduced private sector participation, via 51% share sale, into four
distribution companies that were spun off from Gridco. In steps related to the overall reform
effort, Orissa also sold the Talcher Thermal Power Plant to the National Thermal Power
Corporation; and sold a 49% stake (with management control) in the Orissa Power Generation
Corporation (whose sole asset is a 420 MW coal-fired plant in the Ib Valley) to an independent
power producer, AES of the United States. All of the above was accomplished by 1999. These
are very significant accomplishments. Indeed, the sales of the distribution companies actually
happened well ahead of plan because of the failure, in 1996-97, of an attempt to introduce private
participation in the poorest performing distribution entity (the Central Zone) by management
contract. The response of the Government, to accelerate distribution privatization, showed great
flexibility and underscores the commitment of the Government at that time to the reform program.
Performance on the institutional aspects of reform must be seen as marginally satisfactory, with
only concerns about sustainability preventing a better assessment.

                              Table 2: Efficiency of the Energy Sector (%)

                                                                Financial Year
                                             2000        2001       2002        2003   2004

  Collection efficiency                       77          77         74         80      84

  Transmission and distribution (T&D) loss    47          47         50         44      43

  Aggregate technical & commercial (AT&C)     59          59         63         55      52
  loss




4.1.3       On regulatory and tariff aspects, outcomes are unsatisfactory. OERC, critically, never
revised the 35% loss allowance that was essentially adopted from the World Bank's project
preparatory work. This allowance has proven far too low, and letting losses in excess of that
figure be booked as a regulatory asset for future recovery must be seen as an inadequate remedy.
OERC development has also been affected by the two year period, beginning in 2000, when it did
not have the full complement of commissioners. Since then, household tariffs have not been



                                                         - 6 -

adjusted, despite the fragile financial condition of the sector. Discoms buy power from Gridco at
around Rs 1.3/kWh to which they need to add their own distribution network costs. They are
allowed to charge only Rs 1.4/kWh for the first 100 kWh per month of consumption to their
domestic customers plus an amount for demand charge which brings the revenue to some Rs1.5
to 1.6/kWh (see the full statistics in Additional Annex 9). But half of all purchased power, on
average among discoms, is either lost, stolen, or not paid for by customers. Sales to domestic
consumers account for more than a third of total discom sales, and average consumption of the
1.8-million domestic customers is only about 110 kWh per month. So while other categories pay
closer to cost recovery rates (and noting that Orissa is not burdened by heavy losses in supplying
agricultural customers, who pay only Rs 1/kWh, but consume less than 2% of total discom sales),
the discoms are absorbing huge losses in a core area of their business. GOO and OERC support to
discoms in sustained anti-theft and disconnection programs has been uneven. It is true that
private sector performance, particularly upon assuming control of the discoms in 1999, has been
sub-par; but in light of the low tariffs and the lack of support for theft reduction, it is no surprise
that discoms have been very reluctant to invest money to lower losses. As a result losses have
remained high, with total losses (AT&C) at 52% in FY2004. OERC has been working to process
orders on a multi-year tariff, open access, monitoring indicators, and other initiatives, but needs a
more conducive policy environment in which to develop. The project has created a foundation
that could yet deliver on the promise of fair and effective regulation in Orissa, but ultimately
regulatory effectiveness in Orissa must be measured by sustained commitment to tariff levels and
enforcement that allow distributors to achieve and maintain financial viability.

4.1.4     Objective 2: Supporting the institutional development of the Orissa Electricity
Regulatory Commission, the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) and the Orissa Hydro Power
Corporation (OHPC). Unsatisfactory. The project has been moderately successful in supporting
the institutional development of the newly created operational and regulatory entities, but the
achievements have fallen short of a satisfactory outcome. OERC, India's first state-level power
sector regulator, has three full-time commissioners and a staff of 20 professionals. From its
establishment in 1996 and first tariff order in 1997, it had achieved a reasonable level of legitimacy
with the difficult political economy of Orissa. But this progress was stymied when out-going
commissioners were not speedily replaced. Tariff orders since then have not matched the
boldness of earlier orders, and today wires companies are in effect being regulated on a
cash-needs basis ­ barely able to meet operating costs, and unable to service debt (note that the
generators such as OPGC are insulated from this danger by their energy sales agreements, which
courts have shielded from attempted OERC intervention ­ although Gridco has not always paid
OHPC and OPGC in full for purchased power). Gridco and OHPC have made major strides since
being created out of the old Orissa State Electricity Board. OHPC is a focused organization that
has effectively operated and maintained hydro assets. It successfully brought Upper Indravati into
service. But it is exposed to significant regulatory risk, however, as demonstrated in 2001 when
non-Indravati rates were cut in half, from 50 paise/kWh, to 25 paise/kWh, as a way of enabling
discoms to increase margins without increasing household rates. Gridco has made some progress
when compared to OSEB, but is not profitable in its core businesses of system operations,
transmission, and bulk power supply to customers in Orissa. Gridco profit of Rs 3.8 billion in
FY2004 was entirely due to extraordinarily high interstate sales of Rs 7.8 billion, a consequence
of hydro availability in a wet year and the robust margins that it can get since the reduction in



                                                  - 7 -

OHPC's non-Indravati price. This price cut has also pushed OHPC into consistent losses since
2001 (though in 2004, thanks to high sales during that wet year, OHPC eked out a Rs 57 million
profit).

4.1.5      Objective 3: Reinforcing and rehabilitating Orissa's power system and its demand-side
management to make power supply and consumption more efficient. Unsatisfactory. Power
supply in the state has stabilized, compared to early and mid-1990s, due to a combination of
factors: the industry is more efficient, though losses (not counting non-collections) are still at
43% and only 84% of bills are collected; a significant investment program has de-bottlenecked
critical parts of the infrastructure; and expected load and bulk power supply did not materialize.
But the distribution sector needs at least five years of solid performance improvement to get to a
reasonable level of supply efficiency, and there is little evidence suggesting that consumption has
become more efficient. By contrast, in generation there have been significant efficiency gains.
Talcher, one of the worst performing coal plants in India under OSEB, went from a power load
factor (PLF) of about 30% in the early 1990s to a steady 75% under NTPC management. OHPC
brought the first two units of Upper Indravati into production in 1999 (with all four units now
on-line) and it has since provided a significant portion of Orissa's energy requirements at a cost of
only Rs 0.64/kWh. OPGC's operation of its 420 megawatt coal plant at Ib stands out as well ­
from a PLF of 36% in 1995 (with restrictions in coal mill availability), the plant has averaged an
80% PLF since 2000. OPGC has also been a regular payer of dividends to GOO, which owns
51% of OPGC equity; dividend payouts by OPGC to its shareholders have totaled over Rs 8.3
billion since 1997. In transmission, technical losses in transmission have fallen from 4.9% in 2000
(the first year of disaggregated data) to 3.9% last year, and reliability has improved. When asked
the major reform achievements, the most common answer among stakeholders in Orissa is
"24-hour power" ­ though Gridco has not quantified these gains and, in fact, power quality
remains uneven in most rural areas. There is also the challenge of completing transmission
sub-projects that were started with Bank financing, but not completed (600 km of lines, 7
substations, and 13 substation expansions were incomplete and not yet in service at the time of
Bank project closing).

4.1.6      Objective 4: Upgrading the environmental performance of the power sector, and
strengthening the environmental management capabilities of the power utilities. Unsatisfactory.
Environmental management was not mainstreamed in Gridco or discom operations. There was
some capacity built up in the PMU to implement and effectively monitor environmental
management plans for sub-projects, during initial period of project supervision. However, this
capacity was significantly eroded as the environment and social unit at the PMU was made
defunct during the later phases of project implementation. Similarly, Gridco had initiated Health,
Safety and Environment (HSE) audits of substations and transmission lines, but this too was
discontinued by Gridco after August 2003.




                                                  - 8 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

           The overall rating is Unsatisfactory, based on the following assessments of the
components:

4.2.1      Reinforcing and Rehabilitating the Transmission and Distribution Systems and
Developing Private Power Distribution. Unsatisfactory. The component goal has only been
partly achieved, and sustainability is in doubt. T&D infrastructure is more robust but many
sub-projects remain incomplete; and the largest single investment, the Ib-Merramundali 400 kV
transmission line and associated infrastructure, will not be used for at least four years. The system
still suffers from persistent theft of power and equipment. Assessment is complicated by the large
numbers of transmission sub-projects that will not be completed until mid-2005. On a more
positive note, introduction of private companies into the distribution sector was an early
achievement of the project. Total connections are up by 34% from 2000 (38% for domestic
customers), to over 2.1 million. On average, over 100,000 domestic customers per year have
been added for five years running. While industrial customer numbers have been flat over this
period, commercial customer numbers have increased 27%, suggesting that power quality has
indeed improved to the point where new companies, and old companies that were self-generating,
are attracted to the network. But 3 of every 5 households still do not have a network electricity
connection. And private distributor performance has been uneven in many areas, suffering a
setback in 2001 when AES pulled out of CESCO. Only at the end of the project have BSES
(now Reliance Energy) and, possibly, AES, seemingly re-committed themselves to these
businesses, but the outcome of this re-commitment is uncertain. As with many aspects of the
project, only time will tell if this objective is ultimately achieved; the foundation is there, but
strong commitment will be necessary for the promise of the project to be realized.

4.2.2      Demand-Side Management. Unsatisfactory. This component was cut significantly to
include only a metering program. In total (including both Bank-financed and non-Bank financed
items) discoms have installed about 800,000 meters since 1999; most customers are now metered,
though companies estimate that, in addition to the remaining unmetered customers, there are just
under 300,000 old, defective meters in operation on customer premises. Better metering has
contributed to the reduction in aggregate losses to 52%, but a greater impact was anticipated. It
will be important to resolve remaining billing and collection issues as a whole for the full potential
of the metering sub-component to be realized.

4.2.3      Institutional Development, Training, and Technical Assistance. Satisfactory. All
transmission and distribution entities are sending personnel to the Gridco training center, financing
of which was a key DFID contribution. Technical assistance has been implemented relatively
smoothly, although knowledge transfer to the PMU from its consultants could have been better.
In particular, Gridco had difficulty with supervision of construction contracts as evidenced by the
lengthy delays suffered by many of the transmission sub-projects (some of which remain
incomplete). Support to OERC was extensive and went well in the early parts of the project but
OERC has now functioned without significant technical support for some years, which is
undoubtedly a factor in its diminished effectiveness as a balancer of interests among various


                                                     - 9 -

stakeholders.




                 - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1     The baseline economic rate of return (ERR) of the T&D investment program is
estimated at 13.5%, when benefits are measured using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) estimate of Rs
2.5/kWh. This includes the (so far unproductive) investment in the 400 kV Ib-Merramundali line.
It also includes a conservative estimate of the economic benefits of pilferage (and/or defective
metering); if this were excluded, the ERR falls to 11%. This estimate of economic returns is
based on the investment program of the consolidated T&D business (i.e. the aggregation of
Gridco and the discoms). At appraisal, the ERR for the Orissa power sector investment program
was estimated at 14.4% (when benefits were measured at the tariff), and 16.8% when benefits
were measured using WTP (changes in consumer surplus) as the measure of benefits. A
sensitivity analysis in the SAR indicated robustness to the main uncertainties, with ERR in the
range of 12.5% to 16.8%. No financial return was estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).

4.3.2     Returns are negative when measured by the prevailing tariff. As shown in the figure, in
real terms the average tariff (including interstate sales, which in FY2003 amounted to 31% of
total GRIDCO sales) has decreased since FY97. While tariffs for domestic and commercial
consumers were increased in FY2000 and FY2001, they have stayed unchanged since then. The
result is a negative ERR. [Please see Annex 3 for a summary of the Economic Analysis.]


                              3



                             2.8

                                             Nominal

                             2.6



                       Wh/k  2.4
                                                                  Constant 96 Rs
                           Rs

                             2.2



                              2



                             1.8
                                FY97  FY98    FY99     FY00  FY01    FY02       FY03  FY04
               Nominal Rs       2.27   2.57   2.65     2.53   2.64    2.93      2.90   2.69
               Constant 96Rs 2.27      2.45   2.40     2.18   2.15    2.29      2.20   1.95



4.3.3     Economic and financial returns are sensitive to the assumption used for Gridco interstate
sales. In the analysis, it is assumed that Gridco averages Rs 1.8 billion in interstate sales revenue
from FY2004 forward (this is the average for the period FY2000-03). Returns are lower if these
sales are replaced by Orissa sales, because Orissa buyers pay about Rs 1.5/kWh compared to Rs
2.4/kWh in the interstate market, and because of the effect of losses and theft on power sold into
the Orissa market. Interstate sales depend partly on availability of power for out-of-state sales,
and on Gridco's contractual right to that power. The latter will eventually change, given



                                                    - 11 -

India-wide trends toward open access, but is dependent on distribution companies becoming
credit-worthy buyers. Demand growth might well reduce availability for interstate sales in the
near term, though, in all but wet years. Countering that trend would be loss reduction in Orissa ­
if it happens. Bringing aggregate losses down to 25% in five years, from 2004's 52%, would
produce high returns indeed, but loss reduction of that magnitude is unlikely without sector
financial restructuring and a renewed public and private commitment to new investment.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

           The financial rate of return is estimated by evaluating the incremental streams of
financial costs and benefits attributable to the FY97-2003 time slice of the investment program.
In the interest of making conservative assumptions, a two-year lag is assumed between the year of
the investment outlay, and the year in which the incremental returns become available. Thus
benefits of FY97 outlays are assumed only starting FY99, a conservative assumption for T&D
investments. The FIRR calculates to 17% in constant Rs (see Annex 3 for details). This is an
incremental calculation of benefits to an investment program, not a calculation of the average
financial rate of return to equity (or to total assets). The T&D investments undertaken in the
time-slice were generally to rehabilitate the weakest and most congested parts of the system at the
start of the reform program, following years of neglect and lack of adequate T&D maintenance
and investment. Since the benefits of the reform and restructuring program coincide with the
investment time slice evaluated, the calculated financial returns include not just the benefits of the
investment program per se, but also the benefits of the reform program. Finally, the average costs
of purchased power are quite low (Rs 1-1.3/kWh) compared to the economic cost of power and
therefore involve considerable subsidy (a large part of which is captured by pilferers). This
subsidy therefore raises the financial returns in the T&D business (and is one of the main reasons
why the economic returns are substantially smaller).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1      The project has had significant impact on the various institutions involved; the question
is whether the positive impacts will be sustainable. Most importantly, institutional development of
the OPHC, Gridco, and the distribution companies will continue to be severely constrained if they
remain financially weak. OERC development would be helped by more (and more autonomous)
financing.

4.5.2      At the community level, thousands of village committees have been established and laid
the foundation for pilot franchising programs in one of the distribution companies (WESCO);
initial results from franchise operations indicated that losses could be reduced, and collections and
connections increased. However, flaws in regulatory design and market structure are preventing
any significant expansion of the franchising program. During the pilot phase, the franchisee was
rewarded for collection improvement by splitting the incremental revenue generated with
WESCO. The distribution companies have tried to advance an alternative model, dubbed the
"input-based" approach. Under this scheme, franchisees would pay for the discoms for bulk
power and then sell it on to the customers. Obviously, this could only work if retail rates were
higher than the bulk rate offered by the discoms, which they are not (Rs 1.3 per kWh is the
household rate for the first block, compared to Rs 2.3 per kWh that the distribution company can



                                                  - 12 -

offer to franchisees). As a result, the franchise program in rural Orissa has stalled, as no private
company would agree to such terms. In turn, this development makes the further strengthening of
village committees problematic.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1      The super-cyclone of late 1999 was a serious blow to the project. This major storm
made a direct hit on the CESCO territory only months after AES had taken control of the entity.
Major damage was also sustained by the other discoms and by Gridco. While GOO was able to
mobilize funds for emergency repairs, including from the World Bank, the super-cyclone set back
the program of operational and financial improvement. AES, in a sense, never really recovered
from the effects of the cyclone on CESCO's business, and subsequently withdrew from CESCO in
2001 when its license was suspended. Another critical factor in shaping project outcomes was the
unexpected recession in India in the 1990s; this hit the industrial sector particularly hard, with
predictable impacts in Orissa, with its heavy industry-dependent economy.

5.1.2      Drought in FY2003 was also a major factor in the financial performance of the sector.
Low reservoir levels curtailed availability of OHPC power by 1,400 GWh (compared to the
"normal" year of FY2001), pushing OHPC into a loss of Rs 419 million. Gridco's purchased
power costs in FY2003 were Rs 2 billion higher than in the normal year of 2001 and Rs 4 billion
higher than in the wet year of 2002. The result in 2003 was a loss of Rs 658 million, as Gridco
increased purchases from more expensive thermal generators, and lost inter-state sales.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1      Natural disasters are outside of government control but Orissa's regulatory approach
makes the entities more vulnerable to acts of nature than they need to be. Gridco can apply for an
automatic pass-through of purchased power costs, but this does not automatically flow through to
retail tariffs. For its part, OHPC sells all of its power to Gridco under fixed price contracts ­
there is a mechanism to protect its revenue in low water years but again this does not flow
through automatically into retail tariff increases.      The Orissa approaches protect consumers from
potentially volatile retail prices but, unfortunately, leave the power sector entities vulnerable.
There are ways that consumers could still be protected (at least for a time) from volatility, but this
would require a levy added to a tariff which is under upward pressure anyway because of the need
to service debt and fund new investment.

5.2.2      Fund Flows in the project, were a perennial problem for the project right from the
inception. Delays in fund flow from the state government (finance department) to the power
sector companies, along with adjustment of principal and interest of the project, were among the
major factors that affected the implementation of the investment project. Government fund flow
practices for much of the project were in direct contravention of the legal agreements between
GOO and the World Bank and led to loan suspension for about 6 months. The suspension was
lifted after a release of funds to the entities, but the problems came back as soon after. These
problems only eased late in the project, in part because by then Government and the World Bank


                                                     - 13 -

were in the advanced stages of discussion about a possible state adjustment loan (which was
subsequently approved by the Bank).


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

          Counterpart funding under the project was a major problem for discoms, as they were
not able to make arrangements for it till the end of the project, affecting the implementation of the
project. In the initial part of the project, they used the advances received out of special account
(Rs 63 crore was released as advance by the State Government to 4 discoms out of the special
account advance) to meet their share of costs but later on as this ran short of the requirement of
funds, there were large build-ups of unpaid bills in the discoms. GOO also started to adjust the
advance from the companies in the last few months, which made the situation difficult in the latter
part of the project. The BSES group of companies managed to partially salvage the situation in
the end by bringing some small amounts as counterpart funds.


5.4 Costs and financing:

          Estimated project cost at appraisal was $997 million, of which the Bank was to have
financed $350 million. Actual project cost is estimated at about $407 million of which IBRD
financed 225.5 million, and DFID $109.5 million in technical assistance and financing support.
ADB/PFC and REC also financed parts fo the project (see annex 2). The financing plan assumed
$233 million in local currency financing from IDBI, PFC, and insurance companies, and $221
million in internal cash generation (of which $188 million was to finance foreign currency cost
elements). Almost none of this total of $454 million actually materialized, a direct casualty of the
combination of inadequate tariff increases and inadequate loss reduction. $95 million of the Bank
loan was cancelled at government's request, as the entities were unable to use it given the
contractual, funds flow, and counterpart funding problem that they experienced. Major delays
were experienced in almost every significant investment sub-project, from initial delays in
appointing contractors to subsequent delays caused by funds flow issues and/or environmental
clearance concerns. By project close, a host of subprojects had not been completed, including the
biggest single subproject, the Ib-Merramundali 400 kV transmission line. Additionally, theft of
newly installed equipment and material has been a problem; Gridco has had to fund, out of own
resources, replacement parts and material that were originally financed by the Bank. Theft has
been a special concern along partially built transmission lines, as these assets have been
particularly vulnerable to stripping.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

          Sustainability is unlikely ­ without significant operational, policy, and regulatory
changes. There are threats to both the reform and investment programs.

6.1.1     Reform program: While it is substantially unlikely that the de jure unbundling of OSEB
will be reversed, de facto re-integration may well occur if private distribution operators are



                                                    - 14 -

unviable. Already, the major distributor in the state, CESCO, operates under an administrator
appointed by OERC since 2001 when the private operator left. It is possible that AES will return
to manage CESCO anew, but there is much uncertainty surrounding this prospect. Similarly, it is
unlikely that Orissa would legislate OERC out of existence. But retail tariffs have not been
increased for three years, in effect subjecting the distribution companies to a form of cash-needs
regulation which leaves nothing for debt service or new investment. Current tariff levels might be
manageable if losses were at acceptable levels, but aggregate losses (the sum of technical and
non-technical losses, plus non-payments) remain stubbornly high at over 50% of total marketable
generation.

6.1.2        Investment program: The absence of full commerciality imperils the sustainability of the
investment program. Theft of power, and theft of and damage to equipment remain problems.
Service has greatly improved since the early 1990s in most parts of Orissa, but part of this
improvement is because expected load did not materialize ­ actual sales of power in Orissa
FY2003 were about 6,800 GWh, compared to the SAR projected estimated load of almost 13,000
GWh. The greater availability of power, from Talcher, Upper Indravati, and OPGC in particular,
combined with greatly expanded capacity at key substations and reinforcement and expansion of
the T&D network, has resulted in good quality of supply in this slow-growth environment. For
the near term, the strengthened network will be able to handle additional power flows. But
without adequate financial flows to the transmission and distribution companies, Orissa could find
itself back in the situation of the early 1990s, when service quality was very poor due to the lack
of investment and maintenance in the network.


                                        Staff Appraisal Report 1996: Projections (GWh)

                                           1997          1998          1999           2000    2001       2002        2003     2004^
 Energy available for sale*                9,785         10,902        12,726         13,902 14,809     15,560       16,342   17,159
 T&D Losses                                3,861          3,798         3,721          3,374  3,367       3,373        3,366   3,432
         T&D Losses (%)                   39.5%          34.8%          29.2%         24.3%   22.7%      21.7%        20.6%   20.0%
 Electricity sales                         5,924          7,103         9,004         10,528 11,442     12,187       12,976   13,727

                                                                  Actuals (GWh)

                                           1997          1998          1999           2000    2001       2002        2003     2004^
 Energy available for sale*                9,651         10,324        10,571         10,548 11,506     11,637       11,978   12,545
 T&D Losses                                4,563          4,884         5,396          4,936  5,421       5,862        5,244   5,435
         T&D Losses (%)                   47.3%          47.3%          51.0%         46.8%   47.1%      50.4%        43.8%   43.3%
 Electricity sales                         5,088          5,440         5,175          5,612  6,085       5,775        6,734   7,110

 * Net generation less interstate sales, all losses attributable to Orissa sales only.

 ^ 2004 projection not included in SAR; figures shown here are based on 5% annual growth in available energy and 20% losses.




6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

             With aggregate losses at 52% there is no easy transition to regular operations. In spite
of significant improvements in operations and maintenance practices, the addition of an effective
training center, and the professionalization of management in the various entities, the power
sector business environment remains extraordinarily challenging. Losses (not counting
non-collections) of 43% of available generation can be brought down somewhat without major



                                                                         - 15 -

new investment (based on experience in other countries) but only if there is very strong political
commitment to help the power sector companies enforce anti-theft measures. Here, the
effectiveness of the new special police stations will be put to an early test. But even if some loss
reduction not requiring major new investment is successful, funding will be needed to bring losses
down to best practice levels, and attracting new debt will be very difficult without a major
financial overhaul. Ultimately, making the transition to regular and sustainable operations will
require strong political commitment, effective regulation, and financially healthy operators, all of
which are in doubt in the current environment.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


          Satisfactory. The rating might have been higher but for two factors. First, the load
forecast turned out to be very optimistic, in part because of flawed input data (particularly related
to losses). More diligence in working through load growth scenarios might have helped. Second,
the capacity of Gridco to implement a relatively complex investment program was over-estimated.
In hindsight, one measure that might have helped would have been to drop DSM as a separate
component, while retaining the robust metering program. Nonetheless this second issue should be
seen as a minor mis-step ­ the project team set the bar high, but recognized the risk and provided
adequate technical assistance (much of it financed by DFID) to enhance capacity at Gridco.


7.2 Supervision:


          Unsatisfactory. Supervision was uneven. Bank management and staff support to
Orissa was critical in the early years in adapting the project to the faster-than-expected
privatization of distribution. The task team was less effective in addressing the funds flow
problems that were evident early in the project. Another major defect was the lack of effective
supervision on environmental and social safeguard issues, particularly in the first half of the
project, which was a contributing factor to the lack of implementation of the safeguard framework
which had been developed as an integral part of preparation. Supervision was effective on reform
and privatization issues ­ Bank staff diligence and responsiveness on OERC issues, and on
assisting GOO with acceleration of distribution privatization after the unsuccessful management
contract experience, is particularly noteworthy. Bank supervision of the investment program was
less successful ­ problems were evident early, as contractor selection and award got off to a slow
start, as did initial implementation once the contractors were mobilized. These delays might have
provided Bank staff with an opportunity to re-visit aspects of the sector development plan, but in
practice the Bank tried to get better performance on implementing the program as planned, rather
than on making mid-course changes. It is also noteworthy that GOO performance on funds flow
issues did not really improve until the very end of the project, notwithstanding Bank suspension of
the loan for six months in late 2001. Bank ratings of the project were probably too generous up
to the point of the suspension. As supervision improved toward the end of the project, the
number of problem flags increased, ultimately reaching five ­ safeguards, financial performance,
financial management, legal covenants, and management problems ­ by the time of the last
supervision mission.


                                                - 16 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


          Unsatisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


          Satisfactory. Political commitment in particular was decisive in seeing this project get
off the ground in the first place. OSEB/Gridco capacity to contribute to preparation was limited,
yet the company did establish an effective project unit and provided adequate staffing and
institutional support. The lack of detailed and reliable information wound up being the most
problematic aspect of Gridco's contribution to preparation of the project, particularly as regards
losses. Poor information, coupled with a culture of over-optimistic planning forecasting, also
contributed to the defective load forecast.


7.5 Government implementation performance:


          Highly unsatisfactory. First, GOO management of funds flow to the implementing
agencies was consistently problematic; GOO routinely delayed transfers by six to nine months
over most of the project, showing some improvement in this measure only toward the very end of
the project. It is apparent that, given the very strained nature of state finances, GOO was using
the power sector project funds as a kind of float. Government also routinely deducted
interest-owed, in violation of the loan agreements, from the late transfers to the implementing
agencies. This put incredible pressure on companies and contractors alike and was, at a minimum,
a contributing factor to the financial distress experienced by two of the major contractors over the
course of the project. A second major area of performance deficiency relates to OERC. While
GOO is to be properly commended for its support in creating and strengthening OERC in the
mid-1990s, it damaged OERC's effectiveness and independence by not appointing commissioners
to open seats in 1999-2000. While eventually those positions were filled, since the reappointment
the OERC, has been conducting reviews and hearings, but has never raised retail tariffs even
though the Government didnt make timely implementation of all the actions under which tariffs
would be held down.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1     Financial Management and Procurement: The funds flow and counterpart funds issues
have been mentioned previously. Overall, the limited progress that has been made on financial
management has been long overdue, and all entities have much more to do. On specific issues:
There were no major accountability issues in the project audit reports. However, entity audits
have been hugely delayed; audits for the BSES companies up to FY2003 have only just been
finalized. One lesson of the project is that a longer period of time may be needed for newly
privatized entities to finalize audits. In case of CESCO, due to management walkout,
appointment of an administrator by GOO and dissension between the two faction in the board, the



                                                  - 17 -

entity audits for the past three years are yet to be finalized. The issue related to the transfer of
opening balances still remains unresolved between Gridco and the discoms. This is the difference
between the transfer scheme, as formulated by GOO, and the balances as per the discoms, in
respect of the provision of terminal benefits and provision against gross debtors. This has given
rise to a total aggregate difference of over 1,000 crores (over US$200 million) between the
balance sheets of Gridco and the Discoms. The process of resolution in this respect seems
unclear, and no progress has been made in the last three years. Procurement delays were a major
problem in the project in the beginning, and it is likely that having fewer, larger packages would
have helped. In the overall context of the project, however, procurement was not a major issue
other than at the very beginning.

7.6.2      Social and Environmental Safeguards: Overall, social and environmental impacts have
been relatively minor, with small numbers of project affected persons. Yet overall safeguards
management was disappointing. A safeguards management plan was prepared as part of project
preparation, approved only in March 1999, but essentially not implemented. This plan provided
guidelines for environmental assessment; project environmental and social assessment; and
environmental and social policy procedures. Subsequently, in the later stages of the project, a
reputable NGO was employed to develop a new plan that reflected current safeguard standards.
This Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP) identified 248 project-affected persons eligible to receive
nearly Rs 800,000. Gridco has compensated private land-owners according to India's Land
Acquisition Act, or had land transferred directly from GOO. Over the course of the project,
about 3,000 private land owners were paid "crop compensation" of Rs 6.4 million for laying of
transmission lines and associated activities. The major environmental issue relates to
deforestation. Gridco, after many delays, eventually obtained all necessary forestry clearances. A
total of about 30,000 trees were to be cut, and Gridco has in turn paid the Forestry department
more than Rs 10 million for compensatory afforestation. Unfortunately, the Forestry department
has been unwilling to give any guarantee that these funds will be actually used for tree planting
and maintenance. An additional difficulty is that most of these 30,000 trees were cut in the
Ib-Merramundali right-of-way, for the 400 kV line that will not be used for at least four years
because there has been no new capacity added in the Ib Valley. Finally, the private distribution
companies do not appear to have implemented any form of safeguards framework; though social
and environmental impacts of the distribution program would have been limited, the companies
have not provided any information as to what those impacts were and how they were dealt with.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


           Unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


l Strong ownership of a reform program is essential for success, but the program must be
    grounded in reality and expectations need to incorporate the difficult political economy
    circumstances in which reform is implemented. Orissa had very strong ownership early in the
    project, and so was able to implement major reforms; but commitment, especially to sector



                                                  - 18 -

  financial health, waned as the project went on, and resulted in an incomplete reform program.

l Tariff reform must recognize political economy realities, and must incorporate a sensible,
  financeable transition subsidy scheme so that full cost recovery, and therefore sustainability of
  restructuring, can be achieved. The abrupt halt of subsidy in Orissa, at the point of discom
  privatization, must now be seen as a major defect of the reform program. All stakeholders
  must share in the burdens of restructuring, and an effective communications strategy needs to
  be in place to ensure that all stakeholders understand (and hopefully buy into) the way in
  which these burdens have been allocated. Discussion on appropriate tariff and subsidy levels
  and mechanisms might have been conducted accordingly.

l Reforms need to be institutionalized, putting a burden on capacity building for successor
  operating entities, and new agencies like the regulatory commission. Regulatory effectiveness
  is critical and independence ­ in analysis, funding, decision-making ­ is important in building
  legitimacy among stakeholders. Regulatory credibility has been damaged, though not
  irreparably, by four years without a retail tariff adjustment, by attempts to re-open power
  purchase contracts, and by retention of unrealistic loss allowances.

l Power sector reforms have important links to broader state fiscal policy initiatives and each
  should support the other. Orissa's fiscal situation has improved for the time being, from the
  end of annual outlays for subsidies and the one-off impact of privatization proceeds. But the
  state may well find itself with large and increasing liabilities unless a power sector financial
  recovery plan is decisively designed and implemented. The plan, though, will have to be
  broadly acceptable to all stakeholders, including the private investors.

l Investment programs need to be well prepared and implemented in a way that integrates good
  financial and contractor management with social and environmental safeguards. Flexibility is
  essential so investment programs can adapt to evolving demand, thereby avoiding
  unproductive investments. In Orissa's case, the load forecast deviated so significantly from
  reality that the forecast should have been rigorously updated and, as appropriate, the
  investment program modified. This is especially true of the 400 kV Ib-Merramundali
  transmission line. The Ib valley power plant to which this project was tied was beginning to
  look doubtful (at least in its timing) in 1999, was known to be significantly delayed in 2000,
  and was formally cancelled in 2001. Yet there is no evidence that there was ever any serious
  re-consideration of the decision to construct the line.

l Distinctions should be made between investments integral to the development of the network
  as a whole, and dedicated investments that are tied directly to a specific supplier or consumer.
  Had such a distinction been made, most of the investments in expanding capacity at key
  substations would still have been made, and the fact that load did not always materialize as
  expected would have fewer economic consequences because of the strong economies of scale
  exhibited in network strengthening investments. Dedicated investments should only be made
  when suppliers and/or consumers have properly indemnified the asset provider against the risk
  that the new facilities will not be used because supply (and/or consumption) is not there as
  expected. Cross-indemnification (meaning that both parties involved in parallel, dependent



                                               - 19 -

  investments indemnify each other against the risk that the other investment may not
  materialize) is now standard for transmission projects in India, so this lesson (also learned
  from other projects in India) has already been taken to heart.

l Flexibility is important for the Bank as well. On the Bank side, the disciplines described above
  will challenge historically inflexible procedures to be more adaptable to changing
  circumstances ­ without causing lengthy delays. The Bank should also explore ways in which
  Bank-financed projects can be more demand driven, and should work with all clients to ensure
  a proper allocation of risk to the public sector when public investments are dependent on
  privately financed assets coming on line when they should. The Bank should not accept "build
  it and they will come" (i.e. supply-driven) arguments in power sector development.

l Private participation in the distribution business does not overcome flawed policy and
  regulatory approaches; private tolerance for losses is quite limited. AES and BSES/Reliance
  Energy could not have turned around the distribution companies even if they had been better
  prepared to make the attempt at the point in 1999 when they took over the companies,
  because of the extremely negative business environment. What really matters in a distribution
  business is actual cash flowing from customer to operator. For this to happen the legitimacy
  of the operator must be there, and credibly and consistently backed by policy and regulatory
  (and law and order) institutions. Balance sheet engineering, such as asset re-valuation, might
  then be appropriate, but asset up-valuation, as was done in Orissa, may have the effect only of
  putting upward pressure on rates and does not in and of itself promote enhanced
  commerciality. A better approach may be to recognize and appropriately value the old,
  degraded assets, and design projects to rely less on internally generated cash for investment in
  the early years. Securitization of debt, as has been done in respect of amounts owed to
  NTPC, is an appropriate technique for restructuring debt, but needs to be complemented by
  adequate tariff levels and sustained collection efforts.

l Private sector performance in the distribution business fell far short of public sector
  expectations. This may have been partly due to GOO inexperience with private participation
  in power, but the private firms must take significant responsibility for failing to undertake
  adequate due diligence. BSES/Reliance in particular singularly failed to put adequate
  managerial resources on the ground, and also failed to invest risk capital beyond the initial
  purchase of its 51% stakes in the three companies. Only by the end of the project, nearly five
  years after operational transfer, did BSES/Reliance Energy make concerted and effective
  moves to put robust management teams in place. It might also be added that it can take much
  time to implement good financial management and accounting systems in poorly performing
  entities, and more time should be given for privatized entities to present audited accounts.
  Orissa was only one experience in power distribution in emerging markets among many others
  where the challenges of the business were under-estimated by buyer and seller alike. But if
  this lesson has been learned in part, the right balance of risk and reward continues to elude
  policy-makers, and distribution privatization remains profoundly challenging and risk-laden.

l Reform must be a continuous process and Orissa has built a foundation, albeit shaky, from
  which a healthy sector could yet emerge. The state's power sector is at an important



                                               - 20 -

    crossroads. Concerted Government effort in crafting a financial recovery plan for the sector,
    and addressing policy and regulatory shortcomings, could enable the power sector entities to
    gain strength and, ultimately, to thrive. Lack of action will result in considerable deterioration
    of the current, tenuous situation. In this sense, a full telling of the Orissa power sector reform
    story can only be told in the future.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of India - Department of Economic Affairs had no comments on the report.

Consolidated comments provided by Government of Orissa which are reproduced in annex 10. In
these the State Government notes that it had consciously decided to continue with the Ib to
Meramundali transmission line as it can be used to power transmission other than from the Ib
expansion, particularly when surplus hydro supplies are available. In the initial stage it can be
charged at 220 KV so the surplus power at Budhipadar 220KV bus can be evacuated through this
line. This aspect has been lost sight of while preparing the report. Further, the construction of
two units having 210 MW each by OPGC is on the anvil. As such, it is needless to say that this
line will be fully utilized.

Further the Government explained that the process by which the non-Indravati OHPC hydro
station rates noted in para 4.1.4 were reduced was the culmination of a detailed review of the
power sector and public inquiry by the Kanungo committee. Thus the rate reduction was well
thought out and part of a wider range of detailed recommendations including - reversal of the
up-valuation of assets of OHPC and Gridco, moratorium on debt service on Government debt,
securitization of outstanding dues to OHPC, temporary removal of OHPC and Gridco
requirement to earn return on equity.

With reference to the report in general, the Government states that, the World Bank should also
appreciate the point which is being raised oft and on during the public hearing that it is the general
public who have backed up the reform in the power sector by way of accepting frequent tariff rise
from the beginning. All other stakeholders have dragged their feet and have not fulfilled with
commitments. One significant and cardinal point raised by the public is that the distribution
companies are unable to reduce distribution losses when the Kanungo committee had fixed
realistic loss levels as suggested by the Distribution Companies. However, the report is
unobtrusively silent about the tardy and ineffective all round performance of distribution
companies.

In addition, the following is summarized from comments provided by specific entities as noted:

CESCO

Benefits of the project: Power interruption has been drastically reduced from some days to some
hours; transformer failure has been reduced from 19% (2000-01) to 10% (2003-04); voltage has
stabilized; customer satisfaction has increased; revenue has increased; and losses have come
down. However, there were hurdles faced during implementation of the project: Due to


                                                 - 21 -

on-going reform process of Gridco there was delay in handing over project activities to CESCO,
and as CESCO was not fully organized, implementation was delayed at the outset; AES took over
management of CESCO and investment of fund stood in the way of implementation of the
project; the super cyclone damaged the economic backbone of CESCO and delayed
implementation. Suspension of the World Bank loan further delayed implementation. Uncertainty
of funds and management changes were the main causes of implementation delays.

SOUTHCO

Benefits: The works have helped in saving the network to a certain extent. Over-loading of lines
has been reduced. Interruptions have been reduced. Customer satisfaction has increased.
Voltage has improved. There is adequate reduction of T&D loss. The improvement in supply
quality resulted in better revenue collection from more satisfied customers. However, there were
problems in completion of works: There have been delays due to release of Supplier/Contractor
payments; delays in receipt of payment from Government of Orissa, and suspension of World
Bank loan; and initial delays have created further right-of-way problems. Southco also suffers
from theft of conductors and tower components in completed works.

NESCO

Benefits: Overall distribution loss has been reduced from 65% to 60% from 1999-2000 to
2003-04. Consumers have increased from 252,000 to 442,000. Voltage has stabilized. Billing
and collection has improved.

GRIDCO Project Management Unit

Benefits: Improvement in voltage; reduction in system losses, overloads, and unplanned outages;
appropriate resettlement and crop damage compensation; installing and training personnel in
safety and fire fighting equipment; benefits to industrial consumer and agriculture sector.

Lessons learned: Hard decisions early in the process will reduce initial difficult period of the
reform process; proper packaging should be done for early completion of the project; forest
clearance must be obtained prior to bidding; availability of required land and right-of-way has to
be ensured before invitation to bid; provision of payment for crop damage must be included in
contractor scope of work; procurement of materials and erection of works must be synchronized
to minimize inventory pile-up; erection of lines and substations must be synchronized to avoid
theft of completed works; projects should be covered by insurance by the turnkey contractor until
handing over to the client; technical specification and qualification is to be made as objective as
possible to eliminate any ambiguity that may delay bid evaluation; adequate attention has to be
given to financial aspects like the availability of funds to pay contractors;initial data required for
cost-benefit analysis must be collected from the beginning of the project; accountability must be
fixed on the consultants for any delay/error during approval and erection of the work.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Department for International Development (DFID), United Kingdom



                                                 - 22 -

The involvement of the World Bank and DFID in Orissa's power sector has a 12-year history,
going back to the early 1990s. At the beginning, the Government of Orissa asked DFID (then
known as ODA) to help the Orissa State Electricity Board improve its management through an
institutional support programme. Shortly afterwards, the World Bank suggested combining this
with a major, sector restructuring project, which became the basis of a long term working
partnership between the Bank and DFID. This was the first attempt in India to support the state
government to fundamentally reform and restructure the state owned utility. This resulted in
private sector investment and participation in the thermal generation and power distribution
businesses.

The reform programme was controversial and resisted by those with vested interests in
maintaining the status quo. The process was more difficult and more complicated than anyone
expected at the outset. While the result so far is imperfect, this was a considerable achievement
that, 5 years after privatisation, has proved durable despite severe stresses. Without reform, the
sector would likely have been an increasing burden on public finances with services continuing to
deteriorate. Instead, the sector has become a net contributor to state finances, with distribution
losses falling and the distribution companies now able to meet their power purchase costs and
meet some past liabilities. Orissa is one of the very few states in India not paying power sector
subsidies. In addition, services have improved and power supply is more reliable. The reform
programme in Orissa set the way for sector reforms elsewhere in India, now incorporated in the
new Electricity Act and undertaken in several other states, including Delhi, Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Some of this was done with
Bank and DFID support.

The effective working partnership between the Bank and DFID should be recognised. The
Bank's resources provided the incentive to make progress, while the availability of grant
supported, specialist technical assistance built the capacity to undertake the task. One would not
have worked without the other. This capacity is a legacy of the programme and has been used in
India beyond Orissa. Lessons from the Orissa experience include the need for flexibility in the
face of new information and changing circumstances, such as on privatisation and the
management and delivery of rural services. This is a long-term commitment that should extend
through the transition from public to private ownership and control.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
AES, encouraged by World Bank's involvement in the power-sector reform of Orissa, took the
majority control of CESCO with some legitimate expectations that (1) Orissa Electricity
Regulatory Commission ("Regulator") would rationalize tariffs based on realistic loss level, bring
in regulatory certainty and independence from Government of Orissa ("GoO"); (2) World Bank
funds would be promptly lent to CESCO; (3) GoO would pay the past arrears as well as current
dues to CESCO for the energy consumed by various Government departments; (4) GRIDCO and
GoO would cooperate and provide support, including police support, for CESCO's efforts to
reduce theft. Each and every legitimate expectation was thwarted by GRIDCO and GoO. At
every turn, GRIDCO and GoO made CESCO's job nearly impossible by interfering in the
management of CESCO's operations, including forced transfer and redeployment of employees
(even for political activities unrelated to CESCO) and preventing necessary commercial practices
like the disconnection of defaulting customers, and finally agitating a multiple number of



                                                - 23 -

litigations against AES before multiple fora i.e. Arbitrator, Courts and OERC on a single frivolous
issue that CESCO's dues to GRIDCO to be assumed by AES as an investor in CESCO.
Unfortunately, World Bank could not make GoO accountable for the reform. Despite World
Bank continuing to provide Structural Adjustment Loan ("SAL") to GoO for its fiscal correction,
GoO till date failed to setup any special court and adequate number of police stations to deal with
theft of electricity as per Electricity Act 2003. GoO dues to CESCO on account of energy bill
have been piling up as before. AES believes that World Bank can play a constructive role to
make reform a success by linking release of SAL to GoO's accountability to and demonstration of
successful power-sector reform. Recently, AES committed additional funding for CESCO's
future operations subject to all stakeholders' acceptance of a sustainable business plan to insure
CESCO's financial viability. AES believes that this should be the perfect "pilot" program where
World Bank can give its support through direct funding and instruments like Partial Risk
Guarantee and can make reform work.

10. Additional Information


          See Annex 9.




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                1
             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate


 (a) Establishment of GRIDCO, OHPC                                   1996
     and the Regulatory Commission.

 (b) Enactment of legislation and                                    December 1996.
     regulations.

 (c) Licensing of GRIDCO and the                                     Given on time.
     distribution companies.

 (d) Privatization of GRIDCO's                                       September 1999.
     distribution system.

 (e) Listing and disinvestment of                                    No financial case for this
     GRIDCO's and OHPC's shares.                                     at present.


Output Indicators:
                                                                1
             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate


 (a) Finalization of GRIDCO's and                                    April 1997
     ODHPC's personnel policies and
     establishment of their own staff
     cadres.


 (b) Satisfactory financial performance                              Targets not met
     of GRIDCO and OHPC.


 (c) Budgeting of the Regulatory                                     Target met in all years
     Commission.


 (d) Staffing of the Regulatory                                      Target achieved
     Commission.


 (e) Reduction of system losses.                                     Not achieved


 (f) Competitive procurement of new                                  No new capacity procured
     generation capacity.


 (g) Demand-side management.                                         No progress in other DSM activities,
                                                                     metering has made steady progress
 (h) Integration of environmental                                    Not yet sufficient
     considerations into the
     implementation of GRIDCO's
     investments.


 (i) Rehabilitation of Orissa's existing                             Targets improvement have been
     old thermal power station.                                      met and continues to be met.


 (j) Environmental/ watershed                                        Study carried out and implemented
     management by OHPC.                                             by OHPC.

1End of project




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                             Estimate           Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million        US$ million
  Transmission and Distribution Systems                       599.20              304.30              0.51
  Demand-sideManagement                                        96.80               25.50              0.26
  Institutional Development, Technical                         44.00               77.40              1.76
      Assistance and Training

Total Baseline Cost                                           740.00              407.20
  Physical Contingencies                                       60.20
  Price Contingencies                                         147.70
                         Total Project Costs                  947.90              407.20
                            Interest during construction       49.20
                   Total Financing Required                   997.10              407.20
Note: Actual project costs include financing from DFID ($109.5-million, including $72-million in
technical assistance), ADB/PFC ($31.1-million), REC ($41.5-million); and the World Bank
($225.5-million).


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                 2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            143.30            9.60           0.00            31.20          184.10
                                    (75.00)          (5.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)        (80.00)
2. Goods                            492.90            36.00          9.50           174.60          713.00
                                   (235.00)         (20.00)         (5.00)           (0.00)        (260.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00           5.90            13.00          18.90
Implementation Support               (0.00)          (0.00)         (4.50)           (0.00)         (4.50)
4. Policy Support                    0.00             0.00           5.90             6.30          12.20
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (4.50)           (0.00)         (4.50)
5. Capacity-Building                 0.00             0.00           1.30            18.90          20.20
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.00)           (0.00)         (1.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00           0.00             0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                            636.20            45.60         22.60           244.00          948.40
                                   (310.00)         (25.00)         (15.00)          (0.00)        (350.00)




                                                  - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                28.30              0.00              0.00             0.00             28.30
                                       (28.30)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (28.30)
2. Goods                               317.96              1.63              1.27             0.00             320.86
                                      (181.60)            (1.49)            (0.15)            (0.00)          (183.24)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.96             9.39             12.36
Implementation Support                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.04)            (5.52)           (8.56)
4. Policy Support                       5.40               0.00              0.00             0.00              5.40
                                       (5.40)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.40)
5. Capacity-Building                    0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               351.66              1.63              4.23             9.39             366.92
                                      (215.30)            (1.49)            (3.19)            (5.52)          (225.50)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 27 -

   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

   (This Annex has been summarized from the Economic Analysis Report, which is available in
   full in the project files)


   Economic analysis at appraisal

   1.           The economic analysis in the Orissa Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) assessed the overall
   investment program that was supported in part by the Bank Loan. The economic rate of return
   (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams associated with the
   FY1997-2003 time-slice of the Orissa investment program. The time-slice period covered the
   construction and first few years of operation of Ib Valley thermal plants (units 1-4); the Upper
   Indravati hydro plant; the rehabilitation work on Hirakud hydro plant; the expansion and
   upgrading of the transmission and distribution system; and the implementation of a demand side
   management (DSM) program.

   2.           Costs: Projects completed during the time-slice period were taken as the time-slice
   investment program. Financial costs of that program were converted to economic terms by
   excluding taxes and duties and by applying a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 to the
   residual local costs. Incremental operations and maintenance (O&M) costs were taken from the
   financial projections and converted into economic terms by applying the SCF. Also included
   were Orissa's incremental power purchases from NTPC, taken from GRIDCO's financial
   projections. Fuel, power purchases and O&M costs of the last year of the time-slice investment
   period were kept constant in real terms through FY2022, the operating period of the time-slice
   investments.

   3.           Benefits: For the baseline ERR estimate, GRIDCO's incremental tariff revenue was used
   as a proxy for economic benefits. Tariff revenue was considered by the SAR to be the minimum
   measure of the actual benefits as it reflects only a portion of the total benefits of electricity supply.
   Table 1 reproduces the SAR economic analysis (Table 1). The ERR was estimated at 14.5%.

                                                     Table 1: SAR Economic Analysis

                                                                      (Million Rs)
                             NPV   1996     1997     1998   1999    2000    2001   2002   2003  2004  2005 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010


   Investment Program
 Thermal                   11323    5520     4474     3111    966
 Hydro                       9974   7643     1045     1381   1286    680       127  146
 T&D                         8171            1791     2549   2564   2191     2245  2032
      Operating Costs
 O&M                         4156              215     262    320    473       747  779   779   779   779   779   779   779   779   779
 Fuel                        5224              347     347    346    651       958  958   958   958   958   958   958   958   958   958
 Power Purchases           23297               992    2124   4184   4123     1897  3973 3973   3973  3973  3973  3973  3973  3973  3973

         Total Costs       62145   13163     8864     9774   9666   8118     5974  7888 5710   5710  5710  5710  5710  5710  5710  5710

 Total revenue             67963             2445     4062   6630   8645    10290  12893 12893 12893 12893 12893 12893 12893 12893 12893
 Net benefits                5818 -13163    -6419    -5712  -3036    527     4316  5005 7183   7183  7183  7183  7183  7183  7183  7183
 ERR                       14.4%


Note: Calculations extend to FY2022; for clarity we show only to FY 2010




                                                                    - 28 -

Approach for the ICR economic analysis

4.          Although Orissa was the first of the Indian World Bank power sector restructuring
projects, it is the third for which an ICR is being prepared (the ICR for Haryana was completed in
2001, and the Andhra Pradesh (AP) ICR was completed in January 2004). In the AP ICR, the
estimation of project benefits could be precise, because detailed benefit evaluation studies had
been done both at appraisal, as well as at the end of the project. Thus, for example, the benefits
of transmission system investments were estimated using a detailed load flow model that
examined system losses and voltage levels with and without the Aptransco investment program,
an assessment conducted both at the time of appraisal as well as at the end of the project. Such
benefit assessment studies have not been completed for Orissa. Therefore, it is not possible to
evaluate the economic returns of only that part of the investment program specifically supported
by the Bank Loan.

5.          Consequently, there is little choice but to adopt the same general approach for the ICR
as followed in the SAR, namely to assess the incremental cost and benefit streams. Because the
tariff has declined in real terms, taking economic benefits at the minimum (tariff) valuation
produces an unsatisfactory ERR. But economic benefits are known to be substantially greater
than those yielded by a (declining) real tariff, so benefits are also assessed using average
willingness to pay. When the economic benefits of pilferage are included (pilferage is not simply
an economic loss, because pilferers derive significant economic benefits from their consumption),
the ERR is a satisfactory 13.5%. The approach taken in this ICR is to conduct the analysis for the
consolidated transmission and distribution businesses.

6.          Table 3 shows the capital investment expenditures of GRIDCO and the DISCOMs. The
total investment program includes limited contributions from self-financing, and more significantly
from external funding sources (DFID, ADB, PFC, and REC). The IBRD contribution is 60% of
the total.


                    Table 2: The Investment Program (Summary, in Rs million)

                             FY97   FY98    FY99     FY00    FY01     FY02     FY03  FY04  F05

     Total          14190     NA    1108     636     3299     2265     1914    2307  2661  NA
     Total IBRD      8470     185     0      236      547     1753     1583    1842  2004  321
     as % of total   60%                    37%      17%      77%       83%     80%  75%

        NA = overall investment program derived from balance sheet not available.

7.          Finally, we may note that the significant variance between actual growth of the system,
and those estimated at the time of appraisal, does not affect substantially effect the ERR
calculations. The estimate of the SAR for FY2003 sales to Orissa customers was 12,976 GWh,
as opposed to the actually achieved 6,734 GWh. However, the ERR calculations are based on
what actually occurred, and on actual incremental cost and benefit streams.

Financial rate of return



                                                   - 29 -

 8.           The financial rate of return can be derived directly from the detailed financial statements
 prepared by the ICR, following the methodology as used in the SAR economic analysis, i.e. by
 evaluating the incremental streams of financial costs and benefits attributable to the FY1997-2003
 time slice of the investment program. In the following discussion, references to row number refer
 to Table 3, where data items taken directly from the financials are shaded.

 9.           As a check on the consistency of the investment program obtained from GRIDCO and
 the DISCOMS (Table 3), one may compare this to the increase in fixed assets as revealed in the
 balance sheet of the consolidated T&D business (from an analysis of transfers from construction
 work in progress, CWIP). In the interest of making conservative assumptions, we assume a
 two-year lag between the year of the investment outlay, and the year in which the incremental
 returns become available. Thus benefits of FY1997 outlays are assumed only starting FY1999, a
 conservative assumption for T&D investments.

                                                                 Table 3: Financial Rate of Return

                                                  NPV  FY97 FY98   FY99  FY00   FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07

      Revenue from Sale of Power
1  Power sold
2     - to DISCOMS/[customers]           GWh            5088  5440  5175   5612  6085 5775   6734 7110
3     - Inter-state sales                GWh               0     0     0    650   894  830     48  606
4  Total                                 GWh            5088  5440  5175   6262  6979 6605   6782 7716
5    - to DISCOMS                       Rs Million                  4402 13838 15868 16801 19037 20042
6    - to Consumers/Inter-state sales   Rs Million     11534 13999  9287   1981  2542 2556    650 1811
7  Total revenue from sale of power     Rs Million     11534 13999 13689 15819 18410 19357 19687 21853
8  Incremental Revenue                  Rs Million               0  -310   1820  4411 5358   5688 7854 7854 7854 7854 7854
9  Tariffs
10   - to DISCOMS                        Rs/kWh                             2.5  2.6   2.9    2.8  2.8
11   - to Consumers/Inter-state sales    Rs/kWh                             3.0  2.8   3.1         3.0
12  Overall                              Rs/kWh         2.3   2.6    2.6    2.5  2.6   2.9    2.9  2.8
13
14       Power Purchase Costs
15 Purchased power                       GWh            9651 10324 10571 11197 12400 12467 12026 12185
16 Purchase of power                    Rs Million      9827 11998 12406 11656 13997 11878 16040 13575
17                                       Rs/kWh          1.0   1.2   1.2    1.0   1.1  1.0    1.3  1.1
18 Incremental purchase costs           Rs Million               0   408   -342  1999 -120   4042 1577 1577 1577 1577 1577
19
20              O&M Costs
21 Repairs and maintenance              Rs Million       434   585   476    790   578  612    584 1871
22 Salaries and wages                   Rs Million      2381  2667  2771   3427  3300 3934   4116 4043
23 Admin. & general expenses            Rs Million       334   336   310    914   913 1125   1698 1132
24 Total costs                          Rs Million      3149  3588  3557   5131  4791 5671   6398 7046
25                                       Rs/kWh         0.62  0.66   0.69  0.82  0.69  0.86  0.94 0.91
26 Incremental O&M costs                Rs Million               0   -31   1543  1203 2083   2810 3458 3458 3458 3458 3458
27
28              Investment
29 Investment programme                 Rs Million 6896  185  1108   636   3299  2265 1914   2307
30
31      Total (incremental) costs          Rs     30615  185  1108  1013   4500  5467 3877   9159 5035 5035 5035 5035 5035
                                         Million

32
33 Net flows                            Rs Million 4278 -185 -1108 -1323  -2680 -1056 1481  -3471 2818 2818 2818 2818 2818
34 Financial rate of return, nominal Rs            20%
35 Deflator                                             1.00  1.06   1.12  1.17  1.24  1.29  1.33 1.40 1.47 1.47 1.47 1.47
36 Net flows, constant 1996 Rs          Rs Million 2049 -185 -1049 -1181  -2297  -854 1146  -2603 2010 1920 1920 1920 1920
37 Financial rate of return, constant Rs           17%




 10.          The incremental revenue [row 8] is readily calculated from the P/L statement line items
 for sale of power to DISCOMs and interstate customers. The incremental operating costs [rows


                                                               - 30 -

20-24] and incremental power purchase costs [rows 14-18] are calculated from the
corresponding line items in the P/L statement. The net flows follow in line [33], which are
adjusted by the deflator to convert to constant FY1997 Rs. The FIRR calculates to 20% nominal,
17% in constant Rs.

11.       We have adjusted the data for the unusually high out-of-state sales of FY2004, a
consequence of a very wet hydro year, and the single buyer model that brings the corresponding
benefits into the GRIDCO financials. In place of the FY2004 actual inter-state sales of 3,229
GWh, we take the average of the four previous years (650, 894, 830, and 48 GWh), namely 606
GWh. The corresponding figure for power purchases is also adjusted downward. This makes a
considerable difference to the result, especially for the FIRR.

12.       In light of the general financial difficulties reported by the Orissa GRIDCO and
DISCOMS, this positive financial return may be considered surprising. However, this is an
incremental calculation of benefits to an investment program, not a calculation of the average
financial rate of return to equity (or to total assets). The T&D investments undertaken in the
time-slice were generally to rehabilitate the worst parts of the system at the start of the reform
program, following years of neglect and lack of adequate T&D investment. Additionally, the
calculated financial returns include not just the benefits of the investment program per se, but also
the benefits of the reform program (increased tariffs, reduced commercial losses, greater
efficiency of operation etc). Finally, the average costs of purchased power are quite low (Rs
1-1.3/kWh) compared to the economic cost of power (discussed below), and therefore involve
considerable subsidy (a large part of which is captured by pilferers). This subsidy therefore raises
the financial returns in the T&D business (and is one of the main reasons why the economic
returns are substantially smaller).

Economic analysis: benefits at the consumer tariff

13.       Economic benefits set to the tariff (as in the SAR), and converted into constant FY1997
Rs. However, as shown in the figure to the right, in real terms the average tariff (including
interstate sales, which in FY2003 amounted to 31% of total GRIDCO sales) has decreased since
FY1997.




                                                  - 31 -

                                      3



                                     2.8

                                                      Nominal

                                     2.6



                                     2.4
                               /kWh                                        Constant 96 Rs
                                   Rs

                                     2.2



                                      2



                                     1.8
                                        FY97   FY98    FY99     FY00   FY01    FY02      FY03   FY04
                      Nominal Rs         2.27   2.57   2.65     2.53   2.64    2.93      2.90   2.69
                      Constant 96Rs 2.27        2.45   2.40     2.18   2.15    2.29      2.20   1.95




14.        As shown in Table 6, while tariffs for domestic and commercial consumers were
increased in FY2000 and FY2001, they have stayed unchanged since then. This may have been
wise strategy from the perspective of attracting consumers formerly dependent upon
self-generation back onto the grid, but it is unhelpful to the SAR methodology of taking economic
benefits at the tariff.

                                                   Table 4: Orissa Tariffs

                                        Units/Month 1998-99      1999-00   2000-01       2001-02    2002-03 2003-04
                                                      (FY99)      (FY00)   (FY01)        (FY02)     (FY03)  (FY04)

         Effective From                              1-Dec-98    1-Feb-00  1-Feb-01                1-May-02 1-Dec-03

 Domestic                                < = 100       110          110        130           130      130      130
                                         > 100 and
                                         < = 200       160          180        220           220      220      220
                                         > 200         235          270        310           310      310      310

 Commercial                              < = 100       260          270        310           310      310      310
                                         > 100 and                  360
                                         < = 200       350                     400           400      400      400
                                         > 200 and     400                     440           440      440      440
                                         < = 300
                                         > 300                      400

 Irrigation -- LT                                        80          80        100           100      100      100

 LT -- Small Industry                                  235          270        310           310      310      310

 LT -- Medium/Large Industry                           270          280        320           320      320      320

 HT -- Industry                                        260          260        300           300      300      300




                                                             - 32 -

15.           A second critical assumption is the economic cost of purchased power. As noted above,
this will be substantially above the financial cost of Rs 1.00-1.30. The best estimate of the
avoided cost would be the difference in LRMC derived from a generation capacity expansion
planning optimization with and without the T&D investment program. This is not available for
Orissa. Other recent World Bank studies for India, including the AP ICR, use a FY2003 value of
Rs 2.0/kWh, equivalent to about Rs 1.5 at constant FY1997 price levels as used here.

16.           The result, as shown in Table 5, is a negative ERR. This unsatisfactory result follows
directly from a comparison of the economic cost of power purchased and the tariff (in real terms).
With a falling real tariff and constant cost of power purchase, it cannot surprise that economic
returns using this benefit measure are negative.

               Table 5: Economic Analysis, Minimum Benefit Valuation (taken at the consumer tariff)

                                                     NPV    FY97  FY98 FY99   FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08

1  Calendar year inflation rates                              5.2   6.9   3.5   6.2   5.2   2.5   5.3   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7
2  FY inflation rates                                               5.6   6.1   4.2   6.0   4.5   3.2   5.2   4.7
3  Deflator                                                     1  1.06  1.12  1.17  1.24  1.29  1.33  1.40  1.47  1.47  1.47  1.47
4       Revenue from sale of power
5  - to DISCOMS                          Rs Million             0     0  4402 13838 15868 16801 19037 20042
6  - to Consumers/Inter-state sales      Rs Million         11534 13999  9287  1981  2542  2556   650  1811
7  Total revenue from sale of power      Rs Million         11534 13999 13689 15819 18410 19357 19687 21853
8  In constant Rs                        Rs Million         11534 13253 12221 13556 14891 14979 14762 15583
9  Incremental revenue, constant Rs     Rs Million                    0 -1033 302.7  1637  1725  1508  2330  2330  2330  2330  2330
10 Power sold                             GWh                5088  5440  5175  6262  6979  6605  6782  7716
11 Average selling price                 Rs/kWh              2.27  2.57  2.65  2.53  2.64  2.93  2.90  2.83
12 In constant Rs                        Rs/kWh              2.27  2.44  2.36  2.16  2.13  2.27  2.18  2.02
13
14                O&M Costs
15 Ppower purchased                       GWh                9651 10324 10571 11197 12400 12467 12026 12185
16 Economic cost of power                Rs/kWh               1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
17 Cost of power purchases (constant Rs) Rs Million         14473 15482 15853 16792 18596 18696 18035 18273
18 Incremental power purchase costs      Rs Million                   0 370.4  1309  3113  3214  2552  2791  2791  2791  2791  2791
19
20 Repairs and maintenance               Rs Million           434   585   476   790   578   612   584  1871
21 Salaries and wages                    Rs Million          2381  2667  2771  3427  3300  3934  4116  4043
22 Admin. & general expenses             Rs Million           334   336   310   914   913  1125  1698  1132
23 Total costs                           Rs Million          3149  3588  3557  5131  4791  5671  6398  7046
24                   SCF
25 Adjusted for SCF                      Rs Million          2834 3229  3201  4618  4312  5104  5758  6341
26 Incremental O&M costs                 Rs Million          2834 3057  2858  3957  3488  3949  4318  4522
27 In constant Rs                        Rs Million                  0   -199 900.1 430.4 892.3 1260  1465  1465  1465  1465  1465
28
29                Investment
30 Investment programme                  Rs Million  6896     185 1108    636 3299  2265  1914  2307     0
31 Adjusted for SCF                      Rs Million           167  997    572 2969  2039  1723  2076     0
32 In constant Rs                        Rs Million           167  944    511 2544  1649  1333  1557     0
33
34         Total costs (time-slice)     Rs Million  26718     167   944   682  4754  5192  5439  5370  4256  4256  4256  4256  4256

35
36 Net flows                            Rs Million -17014    -167  -944 -1715 -4451 -3555 -3714 -3861 -1926 -1926 -1926 -1926 -1926
37 Economic rate of return, ERR                     negative




                                                               - 33 -

17.           In the case of the SAR, this approach of valuing benefits at the tariff worked because the
assumption was made that the tariff would indeed increase at least in line with inflation. But what
would have been the ERR if the SAR-expectations on tariff had in fact been achieved?
Unfortunately this is not simply a matter of recalculating the revenue at the higher tariff, because
the price-elasticity effect will change the quantity consumed: at the margin, a higher real price
means reduced consumption, and hence a reduced level of benefits ­ though this will be partially
offset by lower power purchase requirements.

18.           Ignoring these complications, the resulting re-estimate is shown in Table 6. We assume
an aggregate price elasticity of ­0.3, which reduces sales as shown in row [8]; FY2003 sales
would be 263 GWh lower than at the actual tariff. This value of aggregate price elasticity is
consistent with the estimates in the literature on the sector.

                                         Table 6: ERR at the Constant FY1996 Tariff

                                                   NPV  FY97   FY98  FY99  FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08

1  Power sold at actual tariff           GWh             5088   5440  5175  6262  6979  6605  6782 7716
2  Actual tariff, constant Rs           Rs/kWh            2.27  2.44  2.36  2.16  2.13  2.27  2.18  2.02
3  Assumed price elasticity               -0.3
4  Adjusted sales at constant tariff     GWh             5088   5559  5239  6176  6853  6606  6700 7453
5  Constant tariff                      Rs/kWh            2.27  2.27  2.27  2.27  2.27  2.27  2.27  2.27
6  Revenue                              Rs Million       11534 12601 11876 14001 15536 14975 15188 16895
7    Incremental revenue, constant Rs  Rs Million                  0  -726  1399  2934  2373  2586 4293  4293 4293 4293 4293

8  Energy not sold                       GWh                    -119   -64    86   126    -1    82   263
9  Average technical T&D losses                                0.300 0.290 0.284 0.282 0.277 0.271 0.269
10 Change in power purchase requirement  GWh                     170    90  -120  -175     1  -113  -359
11 Actual power purchases                GWh             9651 10324 10571 11197 12400 12467 12026 12185
12 Power purchases at adjusted tariff    GWh             9651 10494 10661 11077 12225 12468 11913 11826
13 Economic cost of power              Rs/kWh              1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
14 Cost of power purchases             Rs Million        14473 15737 15988 16611 18333 18698 17866 17734
15  Incremental power purchase costs Rs Million                    0 250.6   874  2596  2961  2129 1997  1997 1997 1997 1997
16
17 Repairs and maintenance              Rs Million         434   585   476   790   578   612   584 1871
18 Salaries and wages                   Rs Million       2381   2667  2771  3427  3300  3934  4116 4043
19 Admin. & general expenses            Rs Million         334   336   310   914   913  1125  1698 1132
20 Total costs                          Rs Million       3149   3588  3557  5131  4791  5671  6398 7046
21 SCF
22 Adjusted for SCF                     Rs Million       2834   3229  3201  4618  4312  5104  5758 6341
23 In constant Rs                       Rs Million       2834   3057  2858  3957  3488  3949  4318 4522
24        Incremental O&M costs        Rs Million                  0  -199   900 430.4 892.3  1260 1465  1465 1465 1465 1465
25
26                 Investment
27 Investment programme                 Rs Million  6896   185  1108   636  3299  2265  1914  2307     0
28 Adjusted for SCF                     Rs Million         167   997   572  2969  2039  1723  2076     0
29 In constant Rs                       Rs Million         167   944   511  2544  1649  1333  1557     0
30
31         Totalcosts (time-slice)     Rs Million 23099    167   944   562  4319  4675  5186  4946 3462  3462 3462 3462 3462

32
33 Net flows                           Rs Million  -4384  -167  -944 -1288 -2920 -1741 -2813 -2360   831 831  831  831  831
34 Economic rate of return, ERR                    2.2%




                                                             - 34 -

19.        At the (higher) constant tariff, the corresponding power purchase requirement in
FY2003 is a further 359 GWh lower (row [10]), because of the additional avoidance of technical
(but not non-technical) losses. The resulting ERR computes to 2.2%. While these returns are
poor, at least from FY2004 onwards the economic flows are positive (in contrast to those shown
in Table 5, which are negative over the entire 20-year lifetime).

Benefits based on consumer surplus/willingness-to-pay

20.        It is clear that, for most consumption sectors, willingness to pay is substantially above
the tariff. This follows directly from the demand curves. While it is true that demand curves are
not known with any precision, given likely values of price elasticity one may reasonably estimate
benefits taking into account consumer surplus. The benefit of some level of consumption may be
taken as the average willingness to pay (so the net benefit is the difference between this average
willingness to pay and the level of the tariff). The sensitivity analysis in the SAR (Annex 5.1)
used this approach to define an alternative measure of benefits (as discussed above), for which the
baseline ERR increased from 14.7% to 16.8% (SAR sensitivity analysis scenario #1).

21.        Table 7 shows the ICR calculations for an average 2003 WTP of Rs 3.5 /kWh
(corresponding to an appraisal year value of 2.62 Rs/kWh), and a 2003 economic cost of
purchased power of Rs 2.00/kWh (corresponding to a FY1997 value of Rs 1.50/kWh). The ERR
at this value of WTP is 11%.

Economic benefits of pilferage

22.        The above estimate of economic benefits considers only paying customers. But in a
system such as Orissa, a substantial part of "T&D losses" is in fact the consumption of pilferers
(and consumption by those with defective meters). Clearly, pilferers derive economic benefit from
their consumption, which merits consideration in economic analysis. While it may be true that the
economic cost of supplying pilferers exceeds the economic benefits of pilferers' consumption, to
include the former but not the latter results in an underestimate of the net economic benefits.
Based on an average pilferer's WTP of Rs 0.87/kWh, one third of the Rs 2.62/kWh (in FY1997
Rs) assumed for paying customers, the ERR increases to 13.5%.

The Ib-Merramundali line

23.        The Ib-Merramundali 400 kV line, and the associated substation at Merramundali,
accounted for some Rs 1,406 million, or 10% of the total time-slice investment program of the
(consolidated) T&D businesses. The line's purpose is to evacuate power from a proposed IPP in
the Ib Valley. This project was not in fact completed, and therefore the line has provided no
economic benefits. When the costs of this line are subtracted from the investment program, the
baseline ERR increases from 13.5% to 14.8%.




                                                  - 35 -

                                   Table 7: ERR, Benefits based on Consumer WTP

                                                              (Million Rs)
                                                     FY97 FY98  FY99      FY00 FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04  FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08


Power sold                      GWh                  5088 5440   5175     6262  6979  6605  6782 7716
Incremental power sold          GWh                          0   -265      822  1539  1165  1342 2276
WTP                             Rs/kWh               2.62 2.62    2.62    2.62  2.62  2.62  2.62  2.62
Incremental economic benefit    Rs Million                   0   -695     2157  4039  3057  3522 5972  5972 5972 5972 5972


Incremental costs                Rs Million 26718     167  944     682    4754  5192  5439  5370 4256  4256 4256 4256 4256


Net flows                        Rs Million     -509 -167 -944  -1378    -2596 -1153 -2381 -1847 1717  1716 1716 1716 1716


Economic rate of return, ERR                   11.0%


Memo items:
WTP in current Rs                                    2.62 2.77    2.94    3.06  3.24  3.39  3.50  3.68
Economic cost of purchased power at current prices   1.50 1.58    1.68    1.75  1.85  1.94  2.00  2.10




                                                             - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              November 1-17,             5    Sr. Energy Economist (1);
              1993                            Financial Analyst (1);
                                              R&R Specialist (1);
                                              Consultants (2)

              April 9-27, 1994           8    Sr. Energy Economist/Task
                                              Manager (1);
                                              Financial Analyst (1);
                                              R&R Specialist (1);
                                              R&R Consultant (1);
                                              Restructuring Consultant (1);
                                              Power Engineer (1);
                                              Sr. Counsel (1);
                                              Regulatory Specialist (1)

              September/October          7    Sr. Energy Economist/Task
              1994                            Manager (1);
                                              R&R Specialist (1);
                                              R&R Consultant (1);
                                              Environment Consultant (1);
                                              Power Engineer (1);
                                              Restructuring Consultant (1);
                                              DSM Planner (1)

              November/                10     Sr. Energy Economist/Task
              December 1994                   Manager (1);
                                              Environment Consultant (1);
                                              Restructuring Consultant (1);
                                              Energy Economist (1);
                                              Financial Analyst (1);
                                              Sr. Counsel (1);
                                              Counsel (1);
                                              Regulatory Specialist (1);
                                              Chief, Energy Opers Div (1);
                                              Pr. Financial Analyst (1)




                                               - 37 -

Appraisal/Negotiation

           February 13-28,      18 Sr. Energy Economist/Task
           1995                    Manager (1);
                                   Energy Economist (1);
                                   Sr. Financial Analyst (1);
                                   Financial Analyst (2);
                                   Environment Consultant (1);
                                   Pvt. Power Consultant (1);
                                   Restructuring Consultant (1);
                                   Sr. Water Resrc Engr (1);
                                   Hydro Power Consultant (1);
                                   Environment Specialist (1);
                                   Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                                   DSM Planner (1);
                                   Consultants (5)


Supervision
                                                                    S    S
           June 1-8, 1996        2 Sr. Energy Economist/Task
                                   Manager (1);
                                   Financial Analyst (1)

           September 9-19,       5 Sr. Energy Economist/Task        S    S
           1996                    Manager (1);
                                   Sr. Financial Analyst (2);
                                   Consultant (1);
                                   DSM Planner (1)

           December 1996         3 Sr. Energy Economist/Task        S    S
                                   Manager (1);
                                   Sr. Financial Analyst (1);
                                   Financial Analyst (1)

           March 12-15, 1997     3 Sr. Energy Economist/Task        S    S
                                   Manager (1);
                                   Sr. Power Engineer (1);
                                   Consultant (1)

           June 1997             4 Sr. Energy Economist/Task        S    S
                                   Manager (1);
                                   Sr. Power Engineer (1);
                                   Consultant (1);
                                   Financial Analyst (1)

           September 1997        4 Sr. Energy Economist/Task        S    S
                                   Manager (1);
                                   Consultant (1);
                                   Sr. Financial Analyst (1);
                                   Financial Analyst (1)




                                   - 38 -

December 1997        4 Sr. Financial Analyst/Co-Team      S    S
                       Leader (1);
                       Consultant (1);
                       Financial Analyst (1);
                       DSM Expert (1)

March 4-6, 1998      3 Sr. Financial Analyst/Co-Team      S    S
                       Leader (1);
                       Consultant (1);
                       Financial Analyst (1)

June 17-21, 1998     4 Sr. Energy Economist/Task          S    S
                       Team Leader (1);
                       Consultant (1);
                       Financial Analyst (1);
                       Power Engineer (1)

October 26-31,       3 Principal Energy Specialist/Task   S    S
1998                   Team Leader (1);
                       Sr. Financial Analyst (1);
                       Sr. Power Engineer (1)

April 29 -May 1,     3 Sr. Financial Analyst/Co-Team      S    S
1999                   Leader (1);
                       Financial Analyst (1);
                       GRIDCO's Advisor (1)

December 1999        3 Lead Specialist/Task Team          S    S
                       Leader (1);
                       Financial Analyst (1);
                       Sector Director (1)

March 2000           3 Lead Specialist/Task Team          S    S
                       Leader (1);
                       Financial Analyst (1);
                       Power Engineer (1)

June 2000            2 Financial Analyst/Task Team        S    S
                       Leader (1);
                       Lead Specialist (1)

September 7-14,      2 Financial Analyst/Task Team        S    S
2000                   Leader (1);
                       Sr. Financial Analyst (1)

November 29 -        3 Financial Analyst/Task Team        S    S
December 14, 2000      Leader (1);
                       Sr. Energy Specialist (1);
                       Consultant Engineer (1)




                       - 39 -

March 13-17, 2001     3  Financial Analyst/Task Team          S    S
                         Leader (1);
                         Lead Specialist (1);
                         Consultant (1)

June 21 - 26, 2001    4  Financial Analyst/Task Team          U    U
                         Leader (1);
                         Lead Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Financial Mgnt Specialist (1);
                         Consultant Engineer (1)

September 2002        6  Sr. Financial Analyst/Task           U    U
                         Team Leader (1);
                         Sr. Energy Economist (1);
                         Sr. Energy Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Financial Mgnt Specialist (1);
                         Procurement Analyst (1);
                         Sr. Social Dev Specialist (1)

November 11-13,       11 Sr. Financial Analyst/Task Team      U    U
2002                     Leader (1);
                         Financial Mgnt Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Energy Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Energy Economist (1);
                         Sr. Social Dev Specialist (1);
                         Procurement Analyst (1);
                         Sector Director (1);
                         Sr. Economist (1);
                         Environment Specialist (2);
                         Financial Analyst (1)

January 28 - 30,      6  Sr. Financial Analyst/Task Team      U    U
2003                     Leader (1);
                         Financial Analyst (1);
                         Research Analyst (1);
                         Sr. Energy Specialist (1);
                         Environment Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Social Dev Specialist (1)

August 19 - 21,       7  Sr. Financial Analyst (1);           U    U
2003                     Research Analyst (1);
                         Sr. Energy Specialist (1);
                         Environment Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Social Dev Specialist (1);
                         Sr. Financial Mgnt Specialist (1);
                         Consultant Engineer (1)




                         - 40 -

               March 24 - 27,                7   Sr. Financial Analyst/Task Team      U          U
               2004                              Leader (1);
                                                 Sr. Financial Analyst (1);
                                                 Research Analyst (1);
                                                 Consultant Engineer (1);
                                                 Environment Specialist (1);
                                                 Sr. Social Dev Specialist (1);
                                                 Sr. Financial Mgnt Specialist (1)


 ICR

               August 2-11,                 7      Sr. Energy Specialist/ ICR
               2004                               Team Leader (1);
                                                  Research Analyst (1);
                                                  Consultant Engineer (1);
                                                  Environment Specialist (1);
                                                  Sr. Social Dev Speclst (1);
                                                  Sr. Fincl Mgnt Speclst (1);
                                                  Program Assistant (1)


DSM Planner = Demand-Side Management Planner

Note: Between formal missions in June 2001 and September 2002, there were numerous meetings between
GOO officials and Bank Staff in Orissa and in Delhi.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 144.0                            401.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      115.6                            329.9
  Supervision                                386.0                          1,181.7
  ICR                                         14.4                             60.6
  Total                                      660.0                          1,973.9




                                                  - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. OERC orders (available on www.orierc.org)
2. Report of the Committee on Power Sector Reform of Orissa, October 2001
3. Progress reports from Gridco Project Management Unit
4. All Aide Memoires.
5. Staff Appraisl Report: Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project, April 19, 1996
6. Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project: Mid-Term Review Report, 2000
7. Economic Analysis: ICR (Peter Meier), December 2004
8. Statistical Reports from NESCO, SOUTHCO, WESCO, CESCO, GRIDCO, and OHPC
9. Progress Report from Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission, August 2004
10. State Power Sector Reform -- A Review of the Orissa Experience, by Frontier Economics, July 2000
11. Orissa: Revitalizing Power Reform. World Bank Presentation to Orissa's High-Powered Review
Committee, June 2001




                                                - 44 -

Additional Annex 8. Map




                         Map IBRD 26751    ind26751.pdf




                                    - 45 -

   Additional Annex 9. Financial Performance

                                ORISSA---Financial Performance of Transmission & Distribution Business

                                                             (A) Profit and Loss Account
               Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)        1997     1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
      Revenue from Sale of Power to Discoms                                             4402   13838   15868   16801   19037   20042
      Revenue from Sale of Power to Consumers/ Inter-State etc.       11534    13999    9287   1981    2542    2556     650     7815
      Non-Operational/ Other Income                                     449      518     564   1756    2158    1855    2185     2176
I    Total Revenue                                                    11983    14517   14252   17574   20569   21212   21871   30032
      Purchase of Power                                                 9827   11998   12406   11656   13997   11878   16040   17466
      Repairs and Maintenance                                           434      585     476    790     578     612     584     1871
      Salaries and Wages                                                2381    2667    2771   3427    3300    3934    4116     4043
      Administrative & General Expenses                                 334      336     310    914     913    1125    1698     1132
      Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                                     0    (118)    633      55     (41)   150    1044    (1319)
      Less: Expenses Capitalized                                        (171)   (243)   (273)   (296)   (198)    (84)    (67)   (141)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                                 12804    15225   16323   16547   18550   17616   23414   23051
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]                  (821)   (708)  (2071)  1027    2019    3596    (1542)   6981
IV    Provision for bad and doubtful debts                              255      395     268   1322    1643    1943    2210     1549
V     Depreciation                                                      1330    1417    1499   1576    1810    1953    2092     2145
VI    Interest and Financial Charges                                    1023    1258    1732   4220    5008    5468    6122     5568
VII   Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                      (365)   (534)   (361)   (833)   (644)   (749)   (772)   (692)
VIII  Taxation                                                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]                    (3064)  (3244)  (5210)  (5259)  (5799)  (5019) (11194)  (1589)
      Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                        114       53      53      50       0       0       0       0
      Profit on sale of investments                                        0       0       0    443        0       0       0       0
      Loss of 4 discoms transferred                                        0       0    (629)      0       0       0       0       0
      Statutory appropriations                                             0       0       0      27      32    221     136      180


                                                                  (B) Balance Sheet
               Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)        1997     1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
                                    Assets
      Gross Fixed Assets                                              20650    21758   22394   25693   27958   29872   32179   34840
      Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                   (1330)  (2746)  (4245)  (5245)  (6330)  (7572)  (8841) (10173)
      Net Fixed Assets                                                19320    19012   18149   20449   21629   22300   23338   24667
      Capital Work in Progress                                          2147    3356    6570   8232    9531    10268   10767   11753
      Other Fixed Assets                                                   0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                               21467    22368   24719   28681   31160   32568   34104   36420
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                        8      27      89      77      65      52      26      15
III  Investments                                                           2       2    8475   10987   10328   10538   11329   11517
       Sundry Debtors                                                   4032    6466    9230   15289   19867   27283   29665   32758
       Inventory                                                        708     1231     975   1137     976     832    1071     1029
       Cash & Bank Balances                                             642     1252    2385   1202    1234    1078    1653     3381
       Loans & Advances                                                   25      30    5815   8366    4562    4952    7031     9228
       Other Current Assets                                             571      655     890    959    5099    6206    7371     8588
IV     Total Current Assets                                             5978    9634   19295   26953   31739   40350   46790   54984
V      Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                     27455    32031   52578   66698   73292   83508   92250  102936
                                   Liabilities
       Share Capital                                                    3437    3842    6829   7128    7131    7160    7179     7179
       Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                    2244    2933    1453   2465    2592    4780    5564     6213
       Profit and Loss Account                                         (2950)  (6141) (11927) (16015) (21022) (25538) (36060) (37004)
      Capital Contributions from Consumers                                 0       0    2009   2285    2155    2247    2399     2738
VI     Total Shareholders Funds                                         2731     634   (1637)  (4138)  (9144) (11351) (20917) (20874)
VII    Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                                  13510    15729   31844   36007   45857   56101   66221   74235
       Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase                 6023    8997    9179   15666   16891   19121   22094   21361
      Consumers' Security Deposits                                      950     1178    1302   1456    1971    1882    2245     2673
       Other Current Liabilities                                        3642    4847    5857   9082    10686   10032   13254   13548
       Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings                             0       0       0   1207    1740    1740    1740     1740
       Provisions                                                       599      647    6034   7418    5289    5984    7613    10254
VIII   Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                         11214    15668   22371   34829   36578   38759   46946   49576
IX     Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                                27455    32031   52578   66698   73292   83508   92250  102936


                                                       (C) Transmission & Distribution Loss
               Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)        1997     1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
      Power Purchased (MU)                                              9651   10324   10571   11197   12400   12467   12026   15774
      Transmission Loss (MU)                                            4563    4884    3744     551     642     645     615     617
      Distribution Loss (MU)                                                            1652    4384    4779    5217    4629    4818
      Power Sold (MU)                                                   5088    5440    5175    6262    6979    6605    6782   10339
            o/w Inter State/ Other sales (MU)                              0       0       0     650     894     830      48    3229
      Transmission & Distribution Loss (%)                             47.3%   47.3%   51.0%   46.8%   47.1%   50.4%   43.8%   43.3%




                                                                      - 46 -

                                   Financial Performance of Distribution Business
                                                                                         DISCOM---Page 1 of 2
                                               (A) Profit and Loss Account
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)          2000    2001     2002      2003      2004
     Revenue from Sale of Power                                  13838    15868    16801    19037      20042
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                                 493      584      630      728         698
I    Total Revenue                                               14330    16452    17431    19764      20739
     Purchase of Power                                           12682    13972    15172    14751     15559
     Repairs and Maintenance                                       695      479     524       500       1784
     Salaries and Wages                                           2408     2279     2517     2637       2266
     Administrative & General Expenses                             724      770     978      1547        975
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                              207      35      150      1239       1680
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                                   (161)     (75)     (31)     (30)       (24)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                            16557    17458    19309    20644     22241
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]           (2227)   (1006)   (1878)    (879)     (1501)
IV   Provision for bad and doubtful debts                         1322     1643     1943     2210       1549
V    Depreciation                                                  845      998     1070     1154       1235
VI   Interest and Financial Charges                                626     1284     1255     1293       1287
VII  Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                 (236)    (138)    (213)    (230)      (153)
VIII Taxation                                                        0       0         0        0           0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]              (5256)   (5069)   (6359)   (5766)     (5725)

     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                      0       0         0        0           0
     Statutory appropriations                                       27      32        34       37         39

                                                    (B) Balance Sheet
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)          2000    2001     2002      2003      2004
                              Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                          12786    13896    14973    15957     18099
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                              (2539)   (2871)   (3237)   (3632)     (4054)
     Net Fixed Assets                                            10247    11025    11736    12325     14045
     Capital Work in Progress                                     2559     2265     2269     2402       2192
     Other Fixed Assets                                              0       0         0        0           0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                          12807    13290    14005    14728     16237
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                  0       0         0        0           0
III  Investments                                                     0       0         0        0           0
      Sundry Debtors                                              4036     7201     9500    10830     12239
      Inventory                                                    579      498     376       541        581
      Cash & Bank Balances                                         748      676     724       812        509
      Loans & Advances                                            8318     4293     4673     6829       9052
      Other Current Assets                                          73     2679     2679     2679       2679
IV    Total Current Assets                                       13755    15348    17952    21690     25060
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                 26561    28637    31957    36418     41297
                            Liabilities
      Share Capital                                               2249     2249     2249     2249       2249
      Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                223      255     830      1104       1382
      Retained Earnings (P&L A/c)                                (4225)   (8379)  (13640)  (18182)   (22827)
     Capital Contributions from Consumers                         2285     2155     2247     2399       2738
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                                     532    (3721)   (8314)  (12429)   (16458)
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                               8231    13338    14847    16556     20854
      Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase            5015     6422    11941    13874     14540
     Consumers' Security Deposits                                 1456     1971     1882     2245       2673
      Other Current Liabilities                                   3753     4636     5246     8349       9520
      Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings                     1207     1740     1740     1740       1740
      Provisions                                                  6366     4251     4615     6083       8427
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                     17798    19020    25424    32292     36900
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                            26561    28637    31957    36418     41297




                                                          - 47 -

                                 Financial Performance of Distribution Business
                                                                                      DISCOM---Page 2 of 2
                                               (C) Energy Balance

      Financial Year Ending March 31 (Million Units)      2000       2001      2002     2003      2004
I   Power Purchase by Distribution Company                   9987     10859     10990    11361     11937
II  Distribution Loss                                        4384      4779      5217     4629      4818
III Total Power Sold to Retail Consumers                     5603      6080      5773     6733      7119
    Breakdown of Retail Sales
    Low Tension (LT)
          Agriculture/ Irrigation                             216       190       164      139        126
          Domestic                                           2027      2149      2244     2413      2428
          Commercial                                          406       430       453      467        475
          Industrial                                          201       201       198      199        199
          Others                                              167       193       193      192        192
          LT Total                                           3017      3163      3252     3410      3420
    High Tension (HT)
          Commercial                                            0         0         0        0           5
          Industrial                                          959      1036       902      941        995
          Bulk Supply                                          30        32        42       48         55
          Others                                              198       213       242      207        242
          HT Total                                           1187      1281      1186     1196      1298
    Extra High Tension (EHT)
          Industrial                                         1244      1455      1148     1885      2145
          Railway Traction                                    156       181       188      241        257
          Others                                                0         0         0        0           0
          EHT Total                                          1400      1636      1336     2126      2402
IV  Grand Total (LT + HT + EHT)                              5603      6080      5773     6733      7119
V   Number of consumers                                   1577941   1722468   1821994  1973790   2113269
          - Domestic                                      1314843   1449842   1540483  1680997   1813134
          - Commercial                                     154308    167079    175215   185156    195769
          - Agricultural                                    47929     45803     43580    43618     41388
          - Industrial                                      22775     22999     22454    22561     22922
          - Others                                          38086     36745     40262    41458     40056


                                          (D) Commercial Performance

      Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)      2000       2001      2002     2003      2004
I   Power Purchase Cost                                     12764     13972     15172    14751     15559
II  Average Bulk Supply Tariff (Rs/kWh)                       1.28      1.29      1.38     1.30       1.30
IV  Total Collections from Retail Consumers                 10988     12612     12864    15901     17414


                                  (E) Aggregate Technical & Commercial Loss (AT&C)

               Financial Year Ending March 31             2000       2001      2002     2003      2004
I   Distribution Loss                                         44%       44%       47%      41%        40%
II  Collection Efficiency                                     77%       77%       74%      80%        84%
III       AT&C                                               57%       57%       61%      52%         50%




                                                    - 48 -

                                                    Financial Performance of GRIDCO
                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
                                                        (A) Profit and Loss Account
            Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)         1997     1998   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
     Revenue from Sale of Power to Discoms                                           4402   12801   14125  15189   14756   15571
     Revenue from Sale of Power to Consumers/ Inter-State etc.      11534   13999    9287   1981    2542    2556      650    7815
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                                    449     518     564   1263    1574    1225     1457    1478
I    Total Revenue                                                  11983   14517  14252    16045   18242  18969   16863   24864
     Purchase of Power                                              9827    11998  12406    11656   13997  11878   16040   17466
     Repairs and Maintenance                                          434     585     476     95      99      88      84      87
     Salaries and Wages                                             2381     2667    2771   1019    1021    1417     1479    1777
     Administrative & General Expenses                                334     336     310    190      143     147     151     156
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                                   0    (118)    633    (152)    (75)     1     (195)  (2999)
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                                      (171)   (243)   (273)   (136)   (122)    (52)    (37)   (117)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                               12804   15225  16323    12672   15063  13478   17521   16370
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]               (821)   (708)  (2071)  3373    3178    5491     (658)   8494
IV   Provision for bad and doubtful debts                             255     395     268      0       0       0        0       0
V    Depreciation                                                   1330     1417    1499    731      813     882     938     910
VI   Interest and Financial Charges                                 1023     1258    1732   3594    3724    4213     4828    4281
VII  Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                    (365)   (534)   (361)   (597)   (506)   (536)   (543)   (539)
VIII Taxation                                                           0       0       0      0       0       0        0       0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]                 (3064)  (3244)  (5210)   (356)   (852)    932   (5882)   3842
     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                       114      53      53     50       0       0        0       0
     Profit on sale of investments                                      0       0       0    443       0       0        0       0
     Loss of 4 discoms transferred                                      0       0    (629)     0       0       0        0       0
     Statutory appropriations                                           0       0       0      0       0      187     99      141


                                                            (B) Balance Sheet
            Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)         1997     1998   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
                                  Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                             20650   21758  11789    12907   14062  14900   16221   16741
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                 (1330)  (2746)  (1968)  (2706)  (3458)  (4336)  (5209)  (6119)
     Net Fixed Assets                                               19320   19012    9821   10201   10604  10564   11012   10622
     Capital Work in Progress                                       2147     3356    4160   5673    7267    7999     8364    9561
     Other Fixed Assets                                                 0       0       0      0       0       0        0       0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                             21467   22368  13981    15874   17871  18563   19377   20183
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                     8      27      89     77      65      52      26      15
III  Investments                                                        2       2    8475   10987   10328  10538   11329   11517
      Sundry Debtors                                                4032     6466    6679   11254   12666  17784   18835   20519
      Inventory                                                       708    1231     408    558      478     456     530     448
      Cash & Bank Balances                                            642    1252    1821    454      557     354     841    2872
      Loans & Advances                                                 25      30     103     48      270     278     202     176
      Other Current Assets                                            571     655     885    885    2420    3527     4692    5909
IV    Total Current Assets                                          5978     9634    9895   13198   16391  22398   25100   29924
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                    27455   32031  32440    40137   44654  51551   55831   61639
                                Liabilities
      Share Capital                                                 3437     3842    4579   4879    4882    4910     4930    4930
      Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                 2244     2933    1452   2242    2337    3950     4461    4831
      Profit and Loss Account                                       (2950)  (6141) (11927) (11790) (12642) (11897) (17878) (14177)
     Capital Contributions from Consumers                               0       0       0      0       0       0        0       0
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                                      2731      634   (5896)  (4669)  (5423)  (3037)  (8488)  (4416)
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                                 13510   15729  25850    27776   32519  41254   49665   53380
      Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase              6023     8997    7594   10651   10469   7180     8219    6821
     Consumers' Security Deposits                                     950    1178       0      0       0       0        0       0
      Other Current Liabilities                                     3642     4847    3875   5328    6051    4786     4905    4029
      Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings                                                                  0        0       0
      Provisions                                                      599     647    1017   1052    1039    1368     1530    1826
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                        11214   15668  12486    17031   17559  13334   14654   12676
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                               27455   32031  32440    40137   44654  51551   55831   61639




                                                                  - 49 -

                                                Financial Performance of GRIDCO
                                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
                                                         (C) Energy Balance


           Financial Year Ending March 31 (Million Units)      1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004


I    Power Purchased                                           9,651   10,324 10,571 11,197 12,400 12,467 12,026 15,774
         o/w Hydro Purchases                                   3,980    3,507  3,525  4,716  4,759  6,640  3,292  5,993


II   Transmission Loss                                         4,563    4,884  3,744    551    642    645    615    617


III  Total Power Sold                                            5088    5440   6827  10646  11758  11822  11411   15157


     Breakdown of Sales
           Retail Consumers                                    5,088    5,440  3,385
           Inter-State Sales/ Trading                                                   644    875    779     42  2,558
                WESCO                                                                 2,691  2,872  2,981  3,355  3,782
                NESCO                                                                 2,260  2,440  2,303  2,396  2,637
                                                                               3,442
                SOUTHCO                                                               1,435  1,524  1,522  1,557  1,609
                CESCO                                                                 3,611  4,028  4,187  4,056  3,900
           Unscheduled Interchange (UI)                          -        -      -      -      -      -      -      662
           CPP Sale                                              -        -      -        6     19     51      6       9


IV   Grand Total Sales                                         5,088    5,440  6,827 10,646 11,758 11,822 11,411 15,156




                                                     (D) Commercial Performance


           Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)      1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004


I    Power Purchase Cost                                       9,827   11,998 12,406 11,656 13,997 11,878 16,040 17,466


II   Average Power Purchase Cost (Rs/kWh)                        1.02    1.16  1.17   1.04   1.13   0.95    1.33   1.11


III  Total Revenue Billed                                     11,534   13,999 13,689 14,782 16,667 17,744 15,406 23,386


IV   Total Collections                                           9481   11119  11083  10438  12323  12329  13649   21237




                                                              - 50 -

                                       Financial Performance of CESCO
                                            (A) Profit and Loss Account
       Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)         2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
     Revenue from Sale of Power                                 4623    5844    6381    6669    6916
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                               232     208     227     250     262
I    Total Revenue                                              4855    6051    6608    6919    7178

     Purchase of Power                                          4536    5109    5748    5306    5188
     Repairs and Maintenance                                     240     193     260     295     318
     Salaries and Wages                                          979     806     954    1059    1092
     Administrative & General Expenses                           403     109     114     177     186
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                            134      10      86    1227    1680
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                                  (78)    (32)      0       0       0
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                           6214    6194    7162    8064    8465
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]         (1359)   (143)   (554)  (1146)  (1287)
IV   Provision for bad and doubtful debts                        195     221     278     317     323
V    Depreciation                                                261     329     365     395     422
VI   Interest and Financial Charges                                0     360     336     357     387
VII  Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                  0       0     (39)    (48)    (62)
VIII Taxation                                                      0       0       0       0       0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]            (1815)  (1052)  (1493)  (2167)  (2357)

     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                    0       0       0       0       0
     Statutory appropriations                                      0       0       0       0       0

                                                   (B) Balance Sheet
       Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)         2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
                             Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                         4299    4804    5199    5550    6235
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                             (939)  (1272)  (1637)  (2032)  (2455)
     Net Fixed Assets                                           3360    3532    3562    3518    3780
     Capital Work in Progress                                    882     207     106     141     335
     Other Fixed Assets                                            0       0       0       0       0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                         4242    3739    3668    3659    4116
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                0       0       0       0       0
III  Investments                                                   0       0       0       0       0
      Sundry Debtors                                            1772    4352    5959    7075    8188
      Inventory                                                  501     398     296     235     295
      Cash & Bank Balances                                       380     274     116      22      77
      Loans & Advances                                          2708    1917    4131    3980    6205
      Other Current Assets                                        73    2679    2679    2679    2679
IV    Total Current Assets                                      5434    9619   13180   13991   17444
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                9676   13359   16848   17649   21559
                           Liabilities
      Share Capital                                              727     727     727     727     727
      Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                0       0       0       0       0
      Retained Earnings (P&L A/c)                              (1815)  (2868)  (4361)  (6528)  (8886)
     Capital Contributions from Consumers                        866     664     670     677     685
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                                  (222)  (1476)  (2964)  (5124)  (7474)
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                             3112    4146    4969    5630    9029
      Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase          1785    3382    6111    8161    8816
     Consumers' Security Deposits                                354     741     341     460     594
      Other Current Liabilities                                 2136    2399    2399    2399    2399
      Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings                   1207    1740    1740    1740    1740
      Provisions                                                1304    2428    4253    4383    6454
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                    6786   10689   14843   17144   20004
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                           9676   13359   16848   17649   21559




                                                       - 51 -

                                        Financial Performance of NESCO

                                              (A) Profit and Loss Account
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)          2000     2001    2002    2003    2004
     Revenue from Sale of Power                                   3045     3281    3011    3668    3761
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                                  55      165     162     186     154
I    Total Revenue                                                3100     3447    3173    3854    3914

     Purchase of Power                                            2865     2950    3196    2983    3261
     Repairs and Maintenance                                       162      110      70      56      74
     Salaries and Wages                                            446      465     519     520     541
     Administrative & General Expenses                             114      217     319     657     680
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                                 9       9      33       1       0
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                                     (27)    (19)    (14)    (12)    (13)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                             3569     3732    4122    4204    4543
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]             (469)   (285)   (949)   (351)   (629)
IV   Provision for bad and doubtful debts                          386      501     457     667     393
V    Depreciation                                                  186      218     239     263     288
VI   Interest and Financial Charges                                173      301     301     277     179
VII  Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                   (70)    (41)    (42)    (55)    (11)
VIII Taxation                                                         0       0       0       0       0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]               (1143)  (1264)  (1904)  (1502)  (1477)

     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                       0       0       0       0       0
     Statutory appropriations                                         9      11      12      13      14


                                                   (B) Balance Sheet
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)          2000     2001    2002    2003    2004
                               Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                           2807     3075    3381    3703    4413
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                (538)   (538)   (538)   (538)   (538)
     Net Fixed Assets                                             2269     2537    2844    3166    3875
     Capital Work in Progress                                      419      565     630     710     324
     Other Fixed Assets                                               0       0       0       0       0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                           2688     3103    3473    3875    4200
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                   0       0       0       0       0
III  Investments                                                      0       0       0       0       0
      Sundry Debtors                                               728      886    1286    1294    1298
      Inventory                                                     38       34      24      21      32
      Cash & Bank Balances                                         121      139     162     271      34
      Loans & Advances                                            1822     1864     177     271     281
      Other Current Assets                                            0       0
IV    Total Current Assets                                        2709     2924    1648    1857    1644
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                  5396     6027    5121    5733    5844
                             Liabilities
      Share Capital                                                659      659     659     659     659
      Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                 44       54     251     363     469
      Profit and Loss Account                                      (967)  (2023)  (3700)  (4952)  (6155)
     Capital Contributions from Consumers                          477      503     552     599     673
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                                     213     (807)  (2239)  (3331)  (4355)
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                               1413     3160   3,472   3,903   4,157
      Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase            1373      930   2,375   3,119   3,160
     Consumers' Security Deposits                                  292      316     457     472     590
      Other Current Liabilities                                    484      784   1,009   1,185   1,700
      Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings
      Provisions                                                  1622     1643      47     384     592
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                      3771     3674    3888    5160    6041
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                             5396     6027    5121    5733    5844




                                                         - 52 -

                                         Financial Performance of WESCO

                                              (A) Profit and Loss Account
          Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)         2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
     Revenue from Sale of Power                                    4121    4526   4894     6036   6487
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                                  106     120    132      158    165
I    Total Revenue                                                 4227    4646   5026     6194   6651

     Purchase of Power                                             3458    4022   4244     4527   5100
     Repairs and Maintenance                                        159     103    101       80    119
     Salaries and Wages                                             540     552    571      585    634
     Administrative & General Expenses                               77     233    366      399    109
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                                 1       1       1     (13)      0
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                                     (33)    (15)    (10)    (13)    (11)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                              4202    4895   5273     5564   5950
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]               25    (249)   (246)    630    701
IV   Provision for bad and doubtful debts                           480     571    758      798    833
V    Depreciation                                                   195     237    252      267    282
VI   Interest and Financial Charges                                 237     328    338      407    338
VII  Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                   (87)    (54)    (63)    (72)    (23)
VIII Taxation                                                         0       0       0       0       0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]                (801)  (1331)  (1532)   (770)   (729)

     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                       0       0       0       0       0
     Statutory appropriations                                         9      11     12       13     14


                                                    (B) Balance Sheet
          Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)         2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
                                Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                            3055    3254   3437     3672   4247
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                (563)   (563)   (563)   (563)   (563)
     Net Fixed Assets                                              2492    2691   2874     3110   3685
     Capital Work in Progress                                       671     797    782      859    729
     Other Fixed Assets                                               0       0       0       0       0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                            3164    3488   3656     3969   4414
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                   0       0       0       0       0
III  Investments                                                      0       0       0       0       0
      Sundry Debtors                                                870    1278   1548     1688   1688
      Inventory                                                      24      25     23       25     29
      Cash & Bank Balances                                          137     115    251      409    394
      Loans & Advances                                             2049     314    264     1419   1409
      Other Current Assets                                            0       0       0       0       0
IV    Total Current Assets                                         3079    1731   2087     3541   3520
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                   6243    5219   5743     7510   7934
                              Liabilities
      Share Capital                                                 487     487    487      487    487
      Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                 109     121    315      404    496
      Profit and Loss Account                                      (613)  (1716)  (3007)  (3523)  (3983)
     Capital Contributions from Consumers                           490     514    530      572    700
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                                      473    (595)  (1675)  (2061)  (2301)
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                                1933    2939   3147     3573   4019
      Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase              875    1411   2497     2593   2564
     Consumers' Security Deposits                                   560     627    724      920   1056
      Other Current Liabilities                                     642     807    928     2484   2596
      Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings
      Provisions                                                   1760      29    122
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                       3837    2875   4271     5998   6217
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                              6243    5219   5743     7510   7934




                                                         - 53 -

                                      Financial Performance of SOUTHCO

                                              (A) Profit and Loss Account
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)          2000     2001    2002    2003    2004
     Revenue from Sale of Power                                   2048    2217    2514    2663    2878
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                                  99       91     109    134      117
I    Total Revenue                                                2148    2308    2623    2798    2996
     Purchase of Power                                            1823    1891    1983    1935    2010
     Repairs and Maintenance                                       134       73      93      69
     Salaries and Wages                                            443      456     473    473
     Administrative & General Expenses                             131      211     180    314    1272
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                               63       15      30      23
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                                    (22)      (9)     (7)     (5)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                             2571    2637    2752    2810    3282
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]            (424)    (329)   (129)    (13)   (287)
IV   Provision for bad and doubtful debts                          261      351     450    428        0
V    Depreciation                                                  203      214     214    229      244
VI   Interest and Financial Charges                                216      295     279    253      383
VII  Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                  (79)     (42)    (69)    (55)    (57)
VIII Taxation                                                        0        0       0       0       0
IX   Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V-VI+VII-VIII]              (1025)   (1146)  (1003)   (867)   (857)

     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                      0        0       0       0       0
     Statutory appropriations                                        8       10      10      11     11


                                                   (B) Balance Sheet
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)          2000     2001    2002    2003    2004
                              Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                           2625    2763    2956    3031    3204
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                               (499)    (499)   (499)   (499)   (499)
     Net Fixed Assets                                             2126    2264    2457    2532    2704
     Capital Work in Progress                                      588      695     751    693      803
     Other Fixed Assets                                              0        0       0       0       0
I    Total Fixed Assets                                           2714    2959    3208    3225    3508
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                                  0        0       0       0       0
III  Investments                                                     0        0       0       0       0
      Sundry Debtors                                               665      686     707    773    1066
      Inventory                                                     17       42      33    260      226
      Cash & Bank Balances                                         111      149     195    111        3
      Loans & Advances                                            1739      197     102   1158    1157
      Other Current Assets                                           0        0       0       0       0
IV    Total Current Assets                                        2533    1074    1037    2302    2451
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                                  5246    4033    4245    5527    5959
                             Liabilities
      Share Capital                                                377      377     377    377      377
      Reserves & Surplus - incl. Subsidies & Grants                 70       80     264    337      417
      Profit and Loss Account                                     (830)   (1773)  (2573)  (3178)  (3802)
     Capital Contributions from Consumers                          452      474     495    551      680
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                                      68     (843)  (1437)  (1914)  (2328)
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                               1774    3094    3259    3450    3649
      Accounts Payables towards towards Power Purchase             982      699     959
     Consumers' Security Deposits                                  249      287     360    393      432
      Other Current Liabilities                                    492      645     911   2282    2825
      Working Capital (Short Term) Borrowings
      Provisions                                                  1681      150     193   1316    1382
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                      3404    1782    2422    3990    4638
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                             5246    4033    4245    5527    5959




                                                          - 54 -

                                              Financial Performance of OHPC

                                                 (A) Profit and Loss Account
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)      1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 2004 Prov
     Revenue from Sale of Power                              1378   1734    1600   2198   2338   2153   1714   2303
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                             76      21     43    128    118     55     44      46
I    Total Revenue                                           1454   1755    1643   2325   2456   2208   1758   2350


     Operational expenses                                      65      80     77     82     79     77     78      79
     Repairs and Maintenance                                   63      73    129    126    127    171    119    145
     Salaries and Wages                                       280     540    424    555    521    552    544    553
     Administrative & General Expenses                         18      33     50     53     59     51     69      67
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                         0.2      12     87     (9)    (3)     7      1      27
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                              (172)   (244)  (258)  (127)   (20)    (8)   (16)    (17)
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                         254     494    509    680    763    850    795    853
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]       1200   1260    1134   1645   1693   1358    963   1496
IV   Depreciation                                             444     443    447    498    934    966   1010   1123
V    Interest and Financial Charges                           294   1685    1059   1211   1142    476    423    368
VI   Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised            (237) (1645)   (924)  (568)  (108)   (45)   (51)    (56)
VII  Taxation                                                   0       0      0      0      0      0      0       5
VIII Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V+VI-VII]                699     778    552    504   (274)   (39)  (419)     57

     Revenue Subsidies & Grants                                0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0

                                                      (B) Balance Sheet
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)      1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 2004 Prov
                              Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                     11128  11151   12833  24176  25118  26427  26568  26660
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                          (444)   (887) (1335) (1833) (2766) (3733) (4742) (5858)
     Net Fixed Assets                                       10684  10264   11497  22343  22352  22694  21826  20802
     Capital Work in Progress                                8873  11817   12312   2338   1845    783    991   1526
I    Total Fixed Assets                                     19557  22081   23809 24681  24197  23477  22817   22328
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                             6       5      3      2      0      0     17      14
III  Investments                                                0       0    500    500    500    500    500    500
      Sundry Debtors                                          452     977    904   2207   2787   3205   3761   4278
      Inventory                                                45      55     96     86    105    195    212    199
      Cash & Bank Balances                                    327     360    742    344    341    735    492    694
      Loans & Advances                                         62      77     99    452    532    570    581    585
      Other Current Assets                                     38      17     30     43     86     83     83    170
IV    Total Current Assets                                    924   1486    1871   3131   3851   4788   5129   5926
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                            20487  23572  26183  28313  28548  28765  28464   28768
                            Liabilities
      Share Capital                                          3208   3208    3208   3208   3208   3208   3208   3208
      Reserves & Surplus                                        0       0      0    250    250    440    440    441
      Profit and Loss Account                                 699   1476    2029   2532   2258   2219   1800   1857
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                               3907   4684    5237   5990   5716   5867   5448   5506
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                         15972  17933  19627  20994  21294  21074  20889   20774
      Current Liabilities                                     585     642    723    729    814   1358   1588   1864
      Provisions                                               23     312    597    600    725    466    539    625
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                  608     954   1320   1329   1538   1824   2127   2488
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                       20487  23572  26183  28313  28548  28765  28464   28768


                                                     (C) Energy Balance
                Financial Year Ending March 31              1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004
I    Installed Capacity (MW)                                1237.5 1237.5  1261.5 1561.5 1711.5 1861.5 1861.5 1861.5
II   Net Sales (MU)                                          3626    3538   3280   4373   4441   6311   3025   5796




                                                            - 55 -

                                              Financial Performance of OPGC

                                                 (A) Profit and Loss Account
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)      1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 2004 Prov
     Revenue from Sale of Power                              3253    3767   4057   4154   4010   3866   4515   4100
     Non-Operational/ Other Income                             52      43    247    411    170    250    218    131
I    Total Revenue                                           3305    3810   4304   4565   4180   4116   4733   4231


     Raw Materials consumption                                784     950   1153   1307   1253   1155   1196   1449
     Production expenses                                       95     107    159    154    149    146     92    163
     Power & Electricity Duty                                  28      34     23     40     84     59     66      72
     Rebate to GRIDCO                                            0     35     41     78     40      0      0       0
     Salaries and Wages                                        54      64     77    109    136    111    124    142
     Administrative & General Expenses                         45      42     45     78     59     73     67    122
     Net Prior Period Credit/ Charges                        (17.3)   111     (5)    84     30      1     14     (11)
     Less: Expenses Capitalized                               (98)      7     (2)    (4)    (1)     0      0       0
II   Total Cash Operating Expenditure                         890    1351   1490   1846   1750   1545   1559   1937
III  Surplus after cash operating exp. (EBITDA) [I-II]       2415    2459   2814   2719   2430   2571   3174   2294
IV   Depreciation                                             404     812    829    846    848    837    832    587
V    Interest and Financial Charges                           965     986    857    631    485    412    369    231
VI   Less: Interest & Finance charges capitalised                0      0      0     (2)    (1)     0      0       0
VII  Taxation                                                    0      0      0      0    116    101    155    113
VIII Profit/(Loss) after tax [III-IV-V+VI-VII]               1046     661   1128   1244    983   1221   1817   1362
     Dividend                                                 338       0   1471    735   1471   1716   1471   1128

                                                      (B) Balance Sheet
        Financial Year Ending March 31 (Rs in million)      1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 2004 Prov
                              Assets
     Gross Fixed Assets                                     10566   10833  11006  11057  11074  11097 11127   11125
     Less: Accumulated Depreciation                          (825)  (1637) (2465) (3349) (4196) (5024) (5856) (6423)
     Net Fixed Assets                                        9740    9196   8541   7708   6877   6073   5270   4702
     Capital Work in Progress                                 982     554    476    247    247    245    232    180
I    Total Fixed Assets                                     10722    9750   9016   7955   7124   6319   5502   4882
II   Miscellaneous expenses not w/o                            24      40     35     32     26     19     13      12
III  Investments                                                 0      0      0    601    600    600    420       0
      Sundry Debtors                                         1716    2336   1160   1521   1741   1977   2337   1374
      Inventory                                               244     344    316    495    487    514    510    379
      Cash & Bank Balances                                    320     141   3170    894    976   2552   1339   1730
      Loans & Advances                                         56      74     54     65    217    318    467    561
      Other Current Assets                                    111      10      2      2      8      2      1       3
IV    Total Current Assets                                   2447    2905   4703   2978   3429   5362   4654   4046
V     Total Assets [I+II+III+IV]                            13193  12695   13755  11565 11179   12300 10590    8939
                            Liabilities
      Share Capital                                          4500    4510   4902   4902   4902   4902   4902   4902
      Reserves & Surplus                                       21      21    722    784    894   1026   1208   1344
      Profit and Loss Account                                 969    1630   1013   1379    631    154    130      84
VI    Total Shareholders Funds                               5489    6161   6638   7065   6427   6083   6241   6331
VII   Loans (Secured and Unsecured)                          6434    5465   4832   3187   2618   2387   1882   1263
      Current Liabilities                                     898     698    653    497    397    427    413    253
      Provisions                                              371     371   1632    816   1737   3404   2054   1093
VIII  Total Current Liabilities & Provisions                 1269    1070   2286   1313   2134   3831   2467   1346
IX    Total Liabilities [VI+VII+VIII]                       13193  12695   13755  11565  11179  12300 10590    8939

                                                     (C) Energy Balance
                Financial Year Ending March 31              1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 2004 Prov
I    Installed Capacity (MW)                                   420    420    420    420    420    420    420     420
     PLF                                                      55%     63%    76%    86%    82%    71%    71%    82%
     Gross Generation (MU)                                    2029   2334   2804   3166   3001   2599   2618   3006
     Auxiliary Consumption (MU)                                230    272    287    325    317    279    289     329
II   Net Sales (MU)                                           1798   2062   2517   2840   2685   2320   2329   2678




                                                            - 56 -

Additional Annex 10. Consolidated comments from the State Govt. and power sector
entities in Orissa


Consolidated Comments received from State Government ­ Note that the comments which
refer to issues which have been accepted and corrected in the document have not been
reproduced.




                                           - 57 -

- 58 -

- 59 -

- 60 -

- 61 -

- 62 -

- 63 -

- 64 -

