Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14298-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
APRIL 19, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1996)
Currency Unit = rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00   =  US$0.03
US$1.00 = Rs34.5
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I kilovolt (kV)            =      1,000 volts
I kilovolt-ampere (kVA)    =      1,000 volts-amperes
I megawatt (MW)            =      1,000 kilowatts = I million watts
I kilowatt-hour (kWh)      =      1,000 watt-hours
I megawatt-hour (MWh)    =        1,000 kilowatts-hours
I gigawatt-hour (GWh)             1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                        Asian Development Bank
AES                        AES Transpower Inc.
ERR                        Economic Rate of Return
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GRIDCO                     Grid Corporation of Orissa
ICB                        International Competitive Bidding
IDBI                       Industrial Development Bank of India
IFC                        International Finance Corporation
MOP                        Ministr, of Power
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
NTPC                       National Thermal Power Corporation
ODA                        Overseas Development Administration
OHPC                       Orissa Hv dro Power Corporation
OSEB                       Orissa State Electricity Board
PMU                        Project Management Unit
PPA                        Power Purchase Agreement
PFC                        Power Finance Corporation
POWERGRID                  Power Grid Corporation of India
SEB                        State Electricity Board
The Regulatory Commission   Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission



INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. INDIA'S POWER SECTOR.1
Organization and Regulation .............................................1
Central Sector .............................................2
State Sector .............................................2
Private Utilities .............................................3
Grid Operations .............................................3
Power Sector Reform .............................................4
Central Sector Agencies as Agents of Reform  ............... .............................4
Private Power .............................................5
State Power Sector Reform ...........................................6
Past Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector .............................................               9
Bank Strategy in Supporting Power Sector Reform  .............................................9
Lending for State Power Sector Reform                  ............................................ 10
Future Lending to NTPC and POWERGRID  ............................................ II
The poje. wa  p.epreday MesrsiM                  es.   ari  yman(Task.anaer,-A2,I,IMo-n-e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                       .w K .  ..   tn £,. ..... .......... --
)*t.hi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ se.ttte. m.e     . .:    a   ,                          :.
Gulati, ,,,sistant Task Manage, SA2RS,,TSyed Ahmed (LE&SA)S, angera SArmtrn h-A 2Id
7~ai   dhr(eetlmn  and Reaiiaio    osAan)   ao  LpzRvra(AB
Utr fi g  (Privat PTowr Conutant)  ,,, Ma ,,,                                                   in,, $ (L EOS '  t'r't
Y2awov Ziv (ASTEN):and.J.ack Zuik.e.rnick- Retrutai Coslant). A-iitrtv assis...........tan:X
was rovied y Mes. Vivi S.ott -(S2EI n  hka  ipln SAR)  h  ee eiwr
'}-- ...... -~. .                           W.'B'. ..  ' f".  '. ...............''''';';
w~~t~    ~   John ~~.ant agov   RIN?), Raae   A.Ms~t  LT                         adRbRtoZah
,777--t   -- --'(.                                  '.. 
*,ts,.t..t:~. fi,-                    q::            -            ME1-
R., Th. --:ort :   --,                         by M- ---n  -gr .-. - .R..  .O-p-p- . D. :.. .,   : . -.. .;d..  - A  -.--...-
~uer, flivi~ion  'inf  AEI   ot  Asia Cunr    ep R.mn MI



- 11 -
2.         ORISSA'S POWER SECTOR REFORM  PROGRAM ............................................ 11
Orissa Power Sector .                                                                                                               11
Bank Involvement in Orissa .12
Upper Indravati Project ..................................................................                               12
Power Sector Reform  Dialogue ..................................................................                          13
Immediate Bank  Support                        .................................................................. 13
Orissa's Power Sector Reform   Program                             .................................................................. 14
The Orissa Electricity Reform   Act 1995 (Reform  Legislation) ............................ 14
The Orissa Electricity Regulatory  Commission   .................................................. 14
The Orissa Hydro  Power Corporation  (OHPC) .................................................. 15
The Grid Corporation  of Orissa (GRIDCO) ........................................................ 15
Corporatization  and Commercialization .............................................................. 16
Reform   Consultation               .................................................................. 16
3. THE PROJECT .17
Project Objectives ..................................................................                                               17
Project Description ..................................................................                                              17
Part A:  Transmission and Distribution ............................................................... 17
Part B:  Demand-Side Managemeit ..................................................................  18
Part C:  Training  and Technical Assistance ......................................................... 19
Environment and  Resettlement and  Rehabilitation  (R&R) ...................................... 19
Cost Estimates ............................                                                                                         20
Project Financing .21
Terms and Conditions .22
Procurement and Consulting Services .23
Disbursements .25
Retroactive Financing .25
4.         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION ........................................... 26
Executing  and  Operating  Agencies ...........................................                                                     26
Implementation  of Project Components ...........................................                                                   27
Project Monitoring  and  Implementation  Review ...........................................                                         29
Project Accounts and Audit ...........................................                                                              29



- 111 -
5.        PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  ......................................................                                                  30
Benefits of Power Sector Reform  ...................................................... 30
Benefits to Consumers and Orissa Economy ...................................................... 30
Environment ...................................................... 30
Orissa Finances ...................................................... 31
Impact on the Poor ......................................................                                           32
The Specter of a Future with No Power Sector ..................................................  32
Economic Viability ...................................................... 33
Risks and Safeguards ...............                          ;                                                                34
6.         AGREEMENTS  AND  RECOMMENDATION  ......................................................  37
Agreements ...................................................... 37
Specific Financial Objectives to be Achieved by GRIDCO and OHPC ................. 38
Disbursement Conditions ...................................................... 39
Selected Reform  Milestones ......................................................                                  39
Recommendation ......................................................                                                          39



- iv -
Part 1I - ANNEXES
1.1   Overview of the Indian Power Sector
1.2   Bank Experience in the Indian Power Sector
1.3   Power Sector Reform and Commitment Lending
2.1   Finances of the Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB)
Attachment 1 - Financial Performance
Attachment 2 - Transfer of Assets and Liabilities
2.2   Power Sector Development Policy of the Government of Orissa
2.3   Orissa's Power Sector Reform Program
Attachment 1 - Investment Program and Financing Plan
2.4   Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC)
Attachment 1 - Organization Chart
Attachment 2 - Financial Projections (FY97-2003)
Attachment 3 - Assumptions for Financial Projections
Attachment 4 - Asset Revaluation Impact
2.5   Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO)
Attachment 1 - Organization Chart
Attachment 2 - Financial Projections (FY97-2003)
Attachment 3 - Assumptions for Financial Projections
Attachment 4 - Asset Revaluation Impact
3.1   Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Program
3.2   Load Management/Electricity Conservation Program
3.3   Environmental Assessment
3.4   Schedule of Disbursements
4.1  Institution Building Technical Assistance - Scope of Work
4.2   Management of the Institution Building Program
4.3   Transmission and Distribution Rehabilitation Program - PMU Consultant TOR
4.4   Project Appraisal Criteria
4.5   Project Implementation Monitoring Plan
5.1   Economic Analysis
5.2   Orissa Government - Power Sector Funds Flow
5.3   Risks and Safeguards
6.1   Documents in the Project File
MAP IBRD No.26751 - Orissa Transmission System



INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:            Government of Orissa, the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO),
the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC), private distribution
companies and electricity end-users.
Poverty:                 Not applicable.
Amount:                  US$350 million equivalent.
Terms:                    Standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans, repayable
over twenty years, including a five year grace period.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         Government of India to Government of Orissa: standard terms and
conditions applicable to central assistance to the states at the time,
fully additional to Orissa's plan assistance.
Government of Orissa to GRIDCO, OHPC, private distribution
companies, and electricity end-users: Not less than 13 percent a
year rate of interest, repayable over fifteen years with five years of
grace period.
Government of India would bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks.
Financing Plan:           See para. 3.14.
Net Present Value:       US$345 million (at 12 percent discount rate).
Staff Appraisal Report:   14298-IN.
Map:                     IBRD 26751.



1s



INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INDIA'S POWER SECTOR
1.1   All across India the quality of the electricity supply is poor. Power shortages are
estimated at about 10 percent of total electrical energy and 20 percent of peak capacity
requirements. Plant availability and efficiency are generally low and there are high system losses
throughout India's transmission and distribution networks. The financial performance of the
sector as a whole is also unsatisfactory, with low returns and no contribution to investment from
internal resources. Commercial losses of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs) furthermore, are
rising. They reached the equivalent of about US$2.2 billion in fiscal 1996, or about 0.8 percent of
India's GDP.
1.2   Inefficiencies in India's power sector are largely due to the SEBs' lack of managerial and
commercial autonomy. Although the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 nominally grants the
boards considerable freedom of operation, in practice the states have regarded them as extensions
of government and have exerted influence over their tariff, operational, and investment decisions
to further political objectives. As a consequence, SEBs generally have an inadequate capital
structure, low tariffs and poor bill collection, yet are required to undertake unremunerative
activities on behalf of the state governments without proper compensation. The Government of
India has now recognized that increased emphasis needs to be placed on improving the efficiency
of supply, consumption, and pricing of electricity and that this can only be achieved by reforming
power sector management and financing at the state level. The organization and regulation of the
power sector is discussed below. An overview of the power sector, including electricity
consumption, tariffs and supply, is given in Annex 1. I
Organization and Regulation
1.3   Responsibility for the electricity supply in India is shared constitutionally between the
central government and the states. The Electricity Act of 1910 provided the initial legal
framework that still today governs the operations of licensees, that is, the existing private utilities.
As amended, the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 provides the overall regulatory framework for
the sector, charging the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) with developing a national power
policy and with planning, coordinating, and regulating sector development. The 1948 Act also
empowers the central government (currently the Ministry of Power) to make rules for carrying
out CEA's objectives by means of notification in the Official Gazette. The 1948 Act created the
SEBs and entrusted them with primary responsibility for public power supply as well as for
related state-level regulation. The boards were envisioned as largely self-governing entities



empowered to set tariffs and monitor licensees. But after the Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956
defined the aspects of generation and distribution that were the exclusive responsibility of the
states, the once-significant role of private utilities gradually diminished. Today, following the
1991 amendments, it is recognized that various sections of the 1948 and 1910 Acts could be
modernized, but there are no fundamental legal obstacles preventing private investment from
entering into the sector.
Central Sector
1.4   Since the 1970s, the Government of India has been actively involved in power
development in India to complement the efforts of the states. The Government owns several
generating companies (including the National Thermal Power Corporation, NTPC, and the
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation). NTPC's growth has been remarkable and it now
accounts for about 30 percent of India's thermal generation (Annex 1.1). The Government also
owns India's new national transmission company and grid operator, the Power Grid Corporation
of India (POWERGRID). These utilities were incorporated under the Companies Act.
1.5   The Ministry of Power (MOP) approves tariff-setting principles for the centrally-owned
entities. Tariff proposals are reviewed by the Central Electricity Authority which then sends them
to the MOP for notification. Tariffs are determined on a cost-of-service basis and are subject to
basic performance standards. The utilities' financial viability is ensured to the extent that their
tariff revenues cover operational costs, including debt service. The Government of India also
owns two power sector financial intermediaries, the Power Finance Corporation and the Rural
Electrification Corporation.
1.6   The Ministry of Non-Conventional Energy Sources administers the Government's
renewable energy program, which seeks to meet the decentralized energy needs of rural areas to
supplement conventional power supply with such alternative energy sources as mini-hydro,
biomass, wind and solar-power systems. The Government provides budgetary resources for
demonstration projects and promotes private investment through various fiscal incentives, while
the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency provides institutional financing.
State Sector
1.7   The states own the SEBs and State Generating Companies, which together generate
almost 70 percent of India's electricity supply and provide most of the distribution to consumers.
The 1948 Act explicitly requires the SEBs to operate "in the most efficient and economical
manner" and mandates that they adjust their tariffs to achieve a minimum return, after interest, of
3 percent on net fixed assets in operation. The Act, however, allows a state to specify a higher
return target for its SEB than the statutory minimum return. Further, it specifies that interest on
loans from the state governments is to be paid by the SEBs only after meeting the minimum
return. States are, in fact, required to provide subsidies to help the SEBs meet the minimum
return requirement, by compensating the SEBs inter alia for low tariffs to residential consumers
and for using the SEBs as administratively convenient vehicles for agricultural input subsidies.



- 3 -
1.8   For most SEBs, meeting the statutory 3 percent after-interest return would cover
operating costs and debt service provided state government subsidies were fully paid on time and
bill collection were reasonable. Because of their poor operational performance, low tariffs, and
inadequate subsidies, however, most SEBs do not reach the Act's statutory minimum returns.
Their aggregate operating losses are in fact rising and have reached alarming levels (Annex 1.1).
Operating deficits and capital expenditures are presently financed by borrowing or from state
budgetary resources, greatly burdening state govemment finances across India.
Private Utilities
1.9    At independence private utilities and licensed local authorities together provided about 80
percent of India's public electricity supply. But when their licenses expired, most licensees were
taken over by the SEBs, in line with the 1956 Industrial Policy Resolution. Today, only five of
the private utilities originally licensed under the 1910 Electricity Act remain: Bombay Suburban
Electric Supply (BSES) and Tata Electric Companies (TEC) in Bombay, Ahmedabad Electricity
Company (AEC), Surat Electric Company, and Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC) in
Calcutta.
1.10   Then in 1991 India reversed its long-standing policy on private investment in the sector.
Power was removed from the list of activities reserved for the public sector in the Industrial
Policy Resolution, and the 1948 Act was amended to lift many of the regulatory disincentives to
private investment in the power sector. These changes were fully consistent with the Government
of India's objective to tap the financial, technical, and managerial capabilities of the private sector
in areas previously restricted to the public sector.
1.11  India now allows full local or foreign private ownership of power companies and offers a
thirty-year license with the prospect of twenty year renewals and increased financial returns.
Provision is also made in the 1948 Act for private generating companies and captive plants to sell
power to the SEBs. Additional incentives were introduced in the Government of India budget for
fiscal 1994 included reducing the import duty on power projects to 20 percent and offering new
private power projects a five-year tax holiday. These changes have resulted in remarkable
business development activity by private developers (para. 1.16).
Grid Operations
1.12  Indian utilities are grouped into five regional interconnected power systems in the Eastern,
Northern, North-Eastern, Southern, and Western regions of India. In 1964 the Government of
India created Regional Electricity Boards to bring the state boards together with the central and
joint sector utilities to coordinate system operations in their respective regional grids. It also
entrusted the Central Electricity Authority with the development and operation of Regional Load
Dispatch Centers to support the regional boards. In 1991, an amendment of the 1948 Act
strengthened the authority of the Regional Electricity Boards by requiring generating companies
and licensees to follow their instructions.



- 4 -
1.13  In 1993, under the POWERGRID System Development Project (Ln. 3577-IN), the central
government agreed to transfer the Regional Load Dispatch Centers and their operational
responsibilities from the Central Electricity Authority to POWERGRID. The transfer program
was implemented on schedule and completed in January 1996. POWERGRID, in cooperation
with the SEBs and with Bank support, is implementing projects to develop modem coordination
and control systems for the Northern and Southern regions. It has also prepared similar projects
for the Eastern, Western, and North-Eastern regions, all expected to go into implementation in the
course of 1996. A recently-completed study confirmed the need for further improvements in the
structure of bulk power tariffs, and work on the recommended modifications has began under an
action plan approved by the central government as agreed under Ln. 3577-IN.
Power Sector Reform
1.14  The Government of India recognizes that its economic growth targets will be threatened
as long as the country's power supply constrains industrial development and the financial losses of
the power sector remain a burden on the public sector finances. Under the constitutionally
mandated sharing of responsibilities in the sector, the central government is pursuing a three-
pronged approach to remedy the root cause of many of the power sector's problems with
efficiency and resource mobilization. The Government of India imposes financial discipline on the
SEBs through its central agencies. It also presses the states to adjust their power tariffs and has
opened the sector to private investment. In addition, the Government of India has undertaken to
support states willing to reform their power sectors.
Central Sector Agencies as Agents of Reform
1.15  In India the states' budgetary allocations are set by an automatic allocation formula,
making it difficult for the Government of India to condition central assistance to the states.
Within this overall budgetary and central assistance framework, the Government uses its own
agencies and the private sector to promote operational and financial improvements in the SEBs:
* Power Finance Corporation. Supported by the Bank, ADB, ODA and USAID, the
Power Finance Corporation (PFC) provides resources only to those utilities that have
committed themselves to improve their performance under time-bound Operational and
Financial Action Plans endorsed by their state governments and aimed at improving the
utilities' resource mobilization, operational efficiency, and commercialization. While the
requirements of these action plans are generally modest, several SEBs and states have
found them difficult to comply with. As a result, the PFC has had to restrict in its
operations, and its impact on the state power sector has fallen much below original
expectations. The PFC is nevertheless promoting minimum improvements (para. 1.20) that
are immediately required and thereby contributes to India's overall sector reform.
* New collection and sanction policies. NTPC's and POWERGRID's new investment and
commercial policies allow NTPC, India's main generating utility, and POWERGRID to
shut off or restrict power and defer future investment if their clients are in default of their
bulk supply agreements. These strictures are designed to promote better commercial



- 5 -
discipline in the SEBs, and also to improve NTPC's and POWERGRID's revenue
collection and overall operational and financial performance. Since 1994, NTPC and
POWERGRID have - with considerable determination and success - applied these new
investment and commercial policies agreed with the Bank under two major 1993 lending
operations. Providing additional central sector power to performing states and
withholding it from defaulters is a powerful instrument to promote financial discipline and
an absolutely necessary (though not by itself a sufficient) incentive for the states to
undertake sector reform. (For NTPC's and POWERGRID's recent performance, see
Annex 1.2).
* POWERGRID. India's power transmission and system operations are going through an
extensive restructuring program with active Bank support. POWERGRID is being
developed to improve the efficiency of the transmission sector, encourage private
generation, and facilitate competition in power generation among both generators and
their clients. After initial difficulties, POWERGRID's institutional growth has been
remarkable and its role in India's power sector is now widely accepted and supported.
POWERGRID has also been able to attract funding to support its ambitious investment
program to reinforce the power system and develop modem coordination and control
systems, breaking past patterns of chronic under-investment in transmission and system
operations. The next set of development challenges are being addressed as a part of the
preparation of the proposed follow-up Bank operation, POWERGRID II.
Private Power
1. 16 In 1991, faced with a growing power gap and diminishing public resources available for
the sector, the Government of India opened the power sector to private sector participation in
generation, transmission, and distribution (paras. 1.10-11). These policy changes and high-level
promotional efforts were successful in encouraging power projects. So far, about 250 proposals
for adding almost 100,000 MW of capacity have been received. But despite substantial interest,
exploratory activity, and numerous Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with private
developers, only a few agreements have been finalized.
1.17 Most of the MOUs have to be regarded merely as expressions of interest. Some,
however, give specific sponsors exclusive rights to pursue investors and developers to their
projects and sites. Eight projects are at an advanced stage, with power purchase agreements
signed and the extension of counter-guarantees approved by the Government. Only two counter-
guarantee agreements have so far been finalized. ENRON's Dabhol power project in Maharashtra
proceeded to financial closure but then became the focus of controversy and continues to receive
international attention. Project implementation is expected to resume shortly. The lb power
project of the AES Transpower in Orissa (para. 2.2) was also expected to reach financial closure
in 1995, but its power purchase agreement was opened for renegotiations in mid-1995 between
the developer and the state government that took office in Orissa in March 1995. Negotiations
are expected to be concluded during 1996.



- 6 -
1.18  Progress in the finalization of various private power projects has been slow, partly because
of such policy and regulatory issues as the setting up of collection and exchange rate safeguard
mechanisms and import tax and duty concessions, the cumbersome administrative processes
involved in securing project clearances, and often insufficient preparatory work to make project
proposals bankable. Recent changes in state governments have highlighted the political dimension
of private power development. The fundamental reason for the slow progress is, however, the
poor financial position of most SEBs.
1.19  The Government of India has so far resisted pressures to provide all-encompassing
guarantees and has so far limited its support to pioneer projects in states that meet its basic
performance criteria, that is, are essentially in compliance with the PFC's Operational and
Financial Operation Plan conditions. While progress is expected to remain slow, increased
reliance on the private sector should help to improve financial discipline and promote reform,
since private investment, in the absence of further central government guarantees, will only go to
states with an attractive policy environment and a financially sound power sector with
creditworthy utilities.
State Power Sector Reform
1.20  The states' severe power sector problems are attributable to the SEBs poor operational
efficiency which is largely caused by the state governments' political interference. Immediate
minimum actions to restore a measure of financial viability would include:
*  Financial restructuring to establish a reasonable debt equity structure and satisfactory
financial objectives (including an increase in internal cash generation to make a reasonable
contribution to future investment) for the SEBs.
*  Tariff adjustments to meet these revised financial objectives.
#  Improvements in metering, billing and collection - and in payments to and enforcement by
the central utilities.
*  Shifting investment away from supply expansion (new generation) to focus on efficiency
(plant and power system rehabilitation and reinforcement).
*  Contracting private companies or NTPC to rehabilitate and operate poorly performing
stations and other facilities and services.
1.21   While the PFC's Operational and Financial Action Plans typically include some of these
items, the Bank's experience in India's power sector suggests that minimum actions by themselves
will not be sufficient. To be sustainable, the solution to the management and performance
problems in the state power sector will have to go beyond the revitalization of SEBs and



- 7 -
encouragement of private sector participation in power generation. State power strategy will also
have to include:
* Privatization of power distribution, either by sale or long-term lease-management
contracts. While theoretically possible, it is very difficult to introduce, in the public sector
at the state level, the required management and operational autonomy and performance
incentives, that are essential to successfully address the fundamental issues in power
distribution in India. Private sector participation in generation is required, but by itself is
unlikely to solve India's power problems.
* Corporatization of the remaining SEB utility operations, if any, under the Companies Act
and substantial private sector participation in utilities with government ownership
interests. Sufficient operational autonomy is unlikely with 100 percent government
ownership and may in practice in many states require majority private ownership.
Corporate unbundling, i.e. separation of generation, transmission and distribution into
separate companies (even if initially publicly-owned) should also be considered while the
sector is still fully under government ownership. Once the ownership is diversified, further
power sector restructuring becomes even more complicated. Experience from other
countries demonstrates that reliance of functional unbundling places additional
requirements on sector regulation, complicates market structures and may result in
difficulties in ensuring sufficient future investment particularly in transmission.
* Electricity tariff reform that both raises tariff revenues and introduces a tariff structure
that will reduce cross subsidies (with significant increases in agricultural and residential
tariffs) and promote efficiency in electricity use. Given the inability of most state
governments to provide large amounts of subsidies, electricity consumers will have to bear
the cost of power supply.
* Establishment of a regulatory commission, separate from the state government. Given
the track record of state governments in controlling their SEBs, a new and more
transparent approach to regulate the power industry is required, to ensure the
sustainability of tariff reform and viability of utilities meeting the regulatory commission's
performance standards, inter alia to attract sufficient private investment and protect the
interests of consumers.
1.22 The Government of India has concluded that drastic measures along these lines are
required to redress these management and performance problems in the state power sector, and its
power sector strategy is designed to encourage states to adopt such measures. But it is the states
that will need to take these decisions and implement the reforms.
1.23 Seeking to support states willing to reform their power sectors, the Central Government
has sought Bank assistance. A collaborative Government of India-Bank initiative was therefore
formally launched by the MOP in 1993, during the Conference on Power Sector Reforms held in
Jaipur in October 1993. Two follow-up seminars have since been organized, one on competitive
bidding for private generation in Hyderabad in June 1994 and another on privatization of power



- 8 -
distribution in June 1995 in Bangalore. MOP intends to organize a follow-up seminar on
restructuring and related institutional and legal matters during 1996, focusing inter alia on
Orissa's pioneering reform effort, and another seminar on competitive bidding is under discussion.
1.24 In 1993, the Government of India had requested that Cr. 1356-IN be extended to provide
immediate financing for Orissa's reform program. The Government also sought assistance for
other states from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In response to that request, PPF
advances have been approved and utilized to help prepare power sector restructuring projects in
Bihar, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. A restructuring study has been completed in
Haryana in 1995 and an initial tariff adjustment of about 20 percent has been implemented. In
January 1996 the Government of Haryana adopted a power sector policy which incorporates the
key reform elements outlined in para. 1.21 and is in the process of building up its reform
implementation organization. A similar restructuring study was recently completed in Uttar
Pradesh. Implementation decisions are expected in mid-1996. Two more studies - one underway
in Rajasthan and another about to start in Bihar - are due to be completed in 1996.
1.25  The proposed Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project is the first in a planned series of
Government of India-sponsored and Bank-financed state power sector restructuring projects
supporting states willing to undertake fundamental reforms, inter alia involving significant private
distribution, corporatization, tariff reforms and independent regulatory commissions (para. 1.21)
in addition to encouraging significant private sector participation in power generation. The Orissa
power sector reform program goes even further by: (a) splitting the SEB into separate generation,
transmission, and distribution companies to effect complete corporate unbundling; and (b)
transferring Orissa's distribution system to private distribution companies by the year 2000.
1.26  India's state governments have clearly acknowledged the problems with state-run utilities
in such national forums as Power Ministers' Conferences and in the pro-reform draft reports
produced by the power committee of the National Development Council. But so far action
towards actual reform has been limited. The committee report remains to be finalized, as
consensus about its reform-related recommendations is reportedly lacking.
1.27  Not surprisingly, states that have the weakest SEBs are the most willing to consider the
radical reform of their power sectors. They can be logically expected to be among the first to
conclude that an incremental approach of attempting to revitalize their SEBs is unlikely to bring
about sustainable improvement, brought about by the realization of the magnitude of the power
challenge and the inability of the public sector-SEB monolith structure to raise financing and
deliver in the long term. States with better-performing SEBs feel less immnediate need to reform
while several others are simply unable to take action. Indications of Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat
reviewing their reform options are encouraging signs of states with better-performing SEBs
starting to look ahead.
1.28 Only time will tell whether or not the Government of India's efforts to develop and
maintain nation-wide momentum for radical power sector reform will be successful. But, since it
is unrealistic to expect all states to reach political consensus at the same pace, progress in sector
restructuring and tariff and regulatory reform is likely to be uneven. This will lead to widening



- 9 -
differences in power demand and supply among states and regions during the next decade, and
could create severe problems with regional grids with adverse consequences not only for non-
reforming states but also for all interconnecting state and central utilities.
Past Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
1.29  Over the 1980s and up to the early 1990s, IBRD followed a three-pronged strategy in its
lending to the power sector in India. It supported Government-owned agencies - NTPC in
particular - as a means of effecting sector-wide improvements. It financed a selected number of
SEBs whose management and state governments appeared to be committed to revitalization,
improving their performance in a gradual fashion. In cooperation with IFC, it financed existing
private power utilities and encouraged the Government to lower entry barriers for new investors.
1.30  The success of this strategy has been uneven, reflecting fundamental sectoral weaknesses.
Operations with central and private utilities have been generally successful; state-oriented
activities have not (Annex 1.2). IBRD tried vainly to improve the performance of SEBs by
developing close lending relationships directly with the SEBs. The revitalization of institutionally
and financially weak SEBs did not turn out to be feasible. Projects in such states failed to meet
expectations beyond the physical construction of facilities and the Bank was forced to take such
strong measures as suspending disbursement and subsequently canceling loans. SEBs generally
failed to respond to Government generated initiatives and there was no effective mechanism to
enforce compliance or elicit their cooperation, even when they failed to pay for central sector
electricity. It has become painfully clear that a sustainable solution to the sector's problems will
have to focus on SEBs and cannot resolve the power crisis through central and private sector
generation capacity additions alone.
Bank Strategy in Supporting Power Sector Reform
1.31   The country assistance strategy discussed by the Board on June 20, 1995 emphasizes
continued Bank support for the stabilization and economic reform program started by the
Govemment in 1991. It recognizes the need to encourage broad-based private sector-led growth
and the increasing importance of private market-financing as a means of fueling this growth.
Now, following the achievement of many central Government objectives of macro reform, Bank's
country assistance strategy has shifted its emphasis to implementing state-level reforms and
improving state finances. The Bank accordingly supports India's attempts to reform the state
power sector, especially since the pace of state power sector reform affects the sustainability of
the country's overall economic stabilization program. Power sector lending would therefore
focus on promoting domestic and foreign private investment; supporting the reform efforts of the
PFC, NTPC and POWERGRID; and assisting states to implement credible plans to improve the
performance and finances of their power sector.
1.32  On June 29, 1993, the Board of Directors reviewed the Bank's power sector lending
strategy while discussing the NTPC Power Generation Project (Loan 3632-IN). A update
memorandum was issued in March 1994 outlining recent developments regarding progress toward
reform at the state level (including preparatory work on state power sector restructuring



- 10-
programs); implementation of the Government of India's new private power policy; and NTPC's
and POWERGRID's performance in the implementation of Bank-supported projects approved
during the first half of 1993. Chapter 1 of the present report provides an update through mid-
1996 of the implementation of the strategy in these same key areas.
1.33   The Government's actions through NTPC, POWERGRID and PFC, the opening of the
power sector to private investment and its new state power sector restructuring program
demonstrate a clear commitment to reform. As detailed in Annex 1.2, NTPC and POWERGRID
are generally implementing their Bank-supported projects in a satisfactory manner though bill
realization from a few SEB clients needs improvement. The private sector is also responding to
Government of India's private power policy, and eight pioneer projects are progressing towards
implementation. The Government supports policies for effective institutional, regulatory and
financial restructuring that conform to guidelines for Bank lending to the power sector set forth in
the policy paper "The World Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector" (1992). Annex 1.3
measures India's reforms against Bank guidelines and discusses possible further Bank support for
both center and state reform in the context of these recommendations.
Lending for State Power Sector Reform
1.34  Notwithstanding the progress made, the reform process in the power sector has only just
begun, and much remains to be done - particularly at the state level - to reverse the old
unproductive trends. India today needs to take actions to improve the quality of its fiscal
adjustment. There has been, for instance, virtually no adjustment in the states' fiscal deficits,
which presently constrain the flexibility in central Government's ability to make grants and loans
to the states. The Government's fiscal deficit could be reduced more rapidly if the states were
able to mobilize resources and cut expenditures more rapidly. By cutting subsidies and reducing
public spending in the power sector - an area where the private sector can readily take over - state
power sector reform would promote fiscal adjustment at the state. The proposed project
demonstrates how significant and rapid this adjustment could be (paras. 5.4-7).
1.35  The proposed project is the first in a planned series of Bank state power sector
restructuring projects to support state power reforms following the series of relatively
unsuccessful SEB operations of the 1980s. The project is the first concrete breakthrough in the
protracted dialogue of recent years and was processed in coordination with the IFC, which
supports the reform program by helping finance Orissa's first private power generation project
under an operation approved in July 1994. Preparatory work on similar projects under
Government's state power sector restructuring program is under way in several other states with
Bank support (para. 1.24). The timing and number of follow-up operations will depend on the
states' willingness to undertake restructuring of their power sectors and to develop a transparent
regulatory regime. But it is not likely that many states will be able to reach political consensus
and will therefore face continuing deterioration in power supply. The Bank will not finance or
guarantee power sector investments in such states.
1.36  The Bank's lending program would provide a forum to continue the dialogue on state
power sector reform as well as some of the incentives needed to help states make tough decisions.



- 11 -
The guarantee authority will be used with the same underlying objectives, and will be limited to
reforming states. Although the Bank will continue to use the existing portfolio to support these
reforms, this route has been taken to its limits at the state level. After the loan closings and
related actions in recent years, significant exposure is now limited to the state of Maharashtra.
Future Lending to NTPC and POWERGRID
1.37 NTPC and POWERGRID are contributing to India's overall reform effort directly by
providing additional generation capacity and improving transmission and system operations and
indirectly by investment and commercial policies that promote SEB improvement. Further Bank
support to both is therefore envisaged:
* To NTPC to help it increase the supply of electric power and to improve the
environmental performance of its power stations. NTPC has demonstrated its capabilities
in project implementation and has shown increasing willingness to address environmental
and resettlement and rehabilitation issues.
* To POWERGRID to help it develop system coordination and control facilities and create
a national power grid, to pursue the further reform of bulk power and transmission tariffs
and to facilitate financially, commercially, environmentally and operationally sound private
power development in large, multi-state mega power projects.
1.38  Bank assistance to NTPC and POWERGRID is premised on their applying their
investment and commercial policies. Possibilities for using the Bank's guarantee authority will
also be explored in connection with future operations. The Bank could, for instance, assist NTPC
in establishing joint ventures with private domestic and foreign investors and could assist
POWERGRID in facilitating private sector mega power projects and providing related
transmission.
2. ORISSA'S POWER SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Orissa Power Sector
2.1   At the end of 1995, the installed power generation capacity in the Orissa power system
was about 3,000 MW, consisting of about 1,700 MW divided among five plants owned and
operated by the Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB) and the Department of Energy of the
Government of Orissa, a 420 MW coal-fired plant just commissioned in lb Valley by the state-
owned Orissa Power Generation Corporation (OPGC), 725 MW in two large industrial captive
power plants (of which about 100 MW output is being sold to OSEB), and 115 MW in a joint
Andhra Pradesh/Orissa hydroelectric power plant (of which Orissa's share is 34 MW).
2.2   OSEB's operational performance has been among the poorest among all state electricity
boards (SEBs) in India. In early 1990s, thermal plant efficiency and availability were low and



- 12 -
technical and commercial system losses exceeded 40 percent. Until very recently, moreover, the
chronic lack of funds has prevented OSEB from undertaking rehabilitation projects to reverse this
situation. While still less than satisfactory (details are given in Annex 2. 1), OSEB's financial
performance in recent years compares more favorably with that of most SEBs, reflecting
substantial tariff adjustments, Government subsidies and improvements in billing and collection.
OSEB has also been able to secure funds from the Power Finance Corporation (partly originating
from ADB and ODA) and the Bank to initiate measures to improve Orissa's power system and
has contracted AES Transpower, a private United States power developer, to build two additional
250 MW units at Orissa's lb power station.
2.3    Orissa has about 1.3 million customers. Industries account for about 54 percent of the
total electricity consumption and their share would be even higher without supply limitations
OSEB has imposed on them in past years. Residential consumers account for about 26 percent
and agriculture 6 percent, of the state's total electricity consumption. Power shortages in Orissa
have in the past exceeded the all-India averages (para. 1. 1). The situation has improved
considerably with new capacity and currently the inadequate transmission and distribution system
rather than generation capacity prevents the potential demand to be supplied. Additions at Ib, the
600 MW Upper Indravati hydroelectric station (para. 2.5) and the increasing supply to Orissa
from NTPC's projects in the Eastern region (including two 500 MW Talcher units supported
under Ln. 2845-IN and the rehabilitated ex-OSEB Talcher) would double the generation capacity
available for Orissa by 2000 from fiscal 1995.
2.4   But both the Government of Orissa and OSEB recognized that these generation capacity
additions, though a major achievement, will not in themselves be sufficient. They have therefore
initiated a comprehensive program of reforms to address the fundamental problems with sector
management and financing and to correct power system weaknesses. Successful completion of
the reform program would eliminate power cuts and supply restrictions by 2000, and Orissa could
achieve sustained power development for its own needs and export, supported by its vast coal and
significant hydroelectric resources.
Bank Involvement in Orissa
Upper Indravati Project
2.5   Bank involvement in the Orissa power sector goes back to the early 1980s, to the
preparation and approval in June 1983 of Cr. 1356-IN and Ln. 2278-IN for the 600 MW power
component of the Upper Indravati multipurpose hydroelectric project. The project, however,
experienced severe difficulties in part due to poor management and in part due to a natural
disaster in July 1991. In 1991 the Orissa government agreed to drastically reorganize the Upper
Indravati Project's management and implementation strategies, including those related to
resettlement and rehabilitation of persons to be displaced by the project, in return for continued
Bank support for the project. Since substantial disbursements could be justified only after the
project reorganization and reactivation, the Bank canceled the still completely unused US$156
million Ln. 2278-IN in December 1991.



- 13 -
2.6   Reorganization of the Upper Indravati Project turned out to be a painstaking endeavor,
taking substantially longer than expected. But while the reorganization process was finally
substantially completed, a procurement technicality first prevented Bank financing of a balance-of-
works contract replacing terminated non-performing contractors and then various primarily
environmental concerns (inter alia sedimentation control and mitigation at the power station and
reservoir, penstock construction, and the mitigation of potential environmental impacts caused by
an irrigation emergency bypass) led to further requirements to be met prior to Bank funding for
the remaining items. Bank funding had to be deferred and delinked from the proposed Orissa
Power Sector Restructuring Project. In the meantime, Cr. 1356-IN was depleted in March 1995.
The forthcoming Implementation Completion Review for Cr. 1356-IN will document the Upper
Indravati experience in detail. The completion of the Upper Indravati project was threatened by
the lack of funds up to March 1996, when Orissa secured Rs 3,200 million completion financing
from PFC. In conclusion, it must be noted that in spite of the extra-ordinary problems and delays,
the project is still projected to provide power at a highly attractive rate (at less than 50 per cent of
the cost of electricity from new base-load thermal stations) and remains a priority component in
the Orissa/Eastern region power system. OHPC's challenge is to realize this potential by
completing the Upper Indravati project, for which it now has the necessary funding.
Power Sector Reform Dialogue
2.7   Since 1992 the Government of Orissa, OSEB and the Bank have discussed the issues and
a variety of possible solutions to Orissa's fundamental power problems. In 1993, the Government
of Orissa and OSEB agreed upon a power sector reform program - which involves substantial
privatization and complete separation of the power sector from direct government control - as the
logical conclusion to these deliberations. The Orissa government's commitment to power sector
reform was formally conveyed to the Bank by Orissa's chief minister in a letter in November 1993.
The reform program was formally approved by Orissa's Council of Ministers in April 1994 and
has since been endorsed by the new state government, which took office in Orissa in March 1995.
On April 20, 1995, the Orissa government issued a formal statement of its power sector policy (an
updated April 4, 1996 version is attached as Annex 2.2). Events triggering the use of remedies of
the Bank under the proposed project include those which shall make it improbable that the
provisions of the policy statement, or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Immediate Bank Support
2.8   Well before the proposed new Bank loan, implementation of the reform program had
already started. The Orissa government and OSEB have taken measures to improve OSEB's
operational and financial performance and creditworthiness. As requested by the governments of
India and Orissa, the closing date of Cr. 1356-IN was extended at the end of 1993 by one year
and again at the end of 1994, to June 30, 1995 for immediate support for this program in fiscal
1994 and 1995, including the establishment of a reform implementation organization and financing
of consultants to help the Orissa government launch the program. The Bank has also assisted the
Orissa government efforts to raise financial and technical assistance from ADB, ODA and PFC.



- 14 -
Orissa's Power Sector Reform Program
2.9    Orissa, as a pioneer among the states in India, has decided to restructure and substantially
privatize its power sector. The Orissa government's ultimate objective is to withdraw from the
power sector as an operator of utilities and to have competing, privately managed utilities
operating in an appropriately-regulated power market. The power sector industry and market
structures established under this reform program have been defined to reach this objective with no
further institutional restructuring, and significant private sector participation will be required.
2.10   Orissa's power sector reform program (Annex 2.3) involves: (a) the unbundling and
structural separation of generation, transmission, and distribution into separate services to be
provided by separate companies; (b) private sector participation in the new hydroelectric
generation and transmission utilities, the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) and the Orissa
Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC); (c) privatization of thermal generation and distribution; (d)
competitive bidding for new generation; (e) the development of an autonomous power sector
regulatory agency, the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commssion; and (f) reforming of electricity
tariffs at the bulk power, transmission, and retail levels.
The Orissa Electricity Reform Act, 1995 (the Reform Legislation)
2.11   New legislation, the Orissa Electricity Reform Act, 1995 (Orissa Act 2 of 1996), had to be
enacted to: (a) establish in law a state-level regulatory commission independent of the state
government and power utilities; (b) effect the asset, liability and staff transfers from the Orissa
government and OSEB to GRIDCO and OHPC; and (c) transfer the statutory duties allocated to
OSEB under the 1948 Electricity (Supply) Act (including the basic obligation to serve) to the
Regulatory Commission, GRIDCO, and the distributors.
2.12   The Act was passed by the State Assembly in November 1995, notified in the Official
Gazette in January 1996 and became effective on April 1, 1996. The Act establishes the
Regulatory Commission and defines its functions, provides for the licensing of transmission and
supply of electricity, and provides for the Government of Orissa to restructure Orissa's power
sector and vest in companies licensed by the Commission certain assets, rights, and liabilities of
OSEB. Events triggering the use of remedies of the Bank under the proposed project include
those which make it improbable that the provisions of the Government's power sector policy
statement or the Act, or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
The Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission
2.13   The Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission is an autonomous authority responsible for
the regulation of the power sector. The structure selected for the Regulatory Commission is a
three-member commission with necessary support staff. Its objective is to help ensure the
operational, managerial, and financial autonomy of the new utilities in Orissa's power sector, to
promote transparency, efficiency, and economy; and to help Orissa attract private capital for
power sector development while safeguarding the interests of consumers. Under the new Act,
both GRIDCO and the distributors function as licensees and will be regulated by the Commission



- 15-
in the performance of their statutory and license obligations. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that disbursements under Part A of the proposed project will commence only after the
Regulatory Commission has been formally established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
requiring inter alia that the three commissioners and the Commission's initial staff are in place
and the first set of regulations have been adopted and notified by the Commission.
The Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC)
2.14  The hydroelectric stations earlier owned and run by the Orissa government and OSEB are
owned and operated by OHPC from April 1, 1996 as per the Orissa government's transfer order
under the new Act. OHPC's operations and organization; institutional development, staffing and
training; private sector participation; investments; and finances are detailed in Annex 2.4.
2.15  OHPC is initially owned by Government of Orissa. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that OHPC will list its shares and the Government of Orissa and OHPC will offer them
for sale to the public in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
2.16  New thermal generation capacity will also be developed by the private sector. The first
private power project is expected to reach financial closure during 1996 and a competitive bidding
process for the second project is underway. The sale of Talcher, OSEB's only existing thermal
station, to NTPC was approved in June 1995. OPGC's Ib units 1-2 are to be privatized, most
likely through the sale of the majority of OPGC's shares to private investors. The first
disinvestment, about 20-30 percent of the Government's stake in OPGC, is expected during fiscal
1997. Just like OPGC, also OHPC and individual private generating companies will function as
generating companies under the 1948 Electricity (Supply) Act.
The Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO)
2.17  GRIDCO is responsible for transmission, coordination of system planning and operations
and initially, distribution and bulk power procurement, from April 1, 1996 as per the Orissa
government's transfer order under the new Act. GRIDCO is also the main executing agency of
investments supported under the proposed project. Its operations and organization; institutional
development, staffing and training; private sector participation; distribution privatization program;
investments; and finances are detailed in Annex 2.5.
2.18  Distribution privatization is a key feature of the reform program. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that GRIDCO will gradually transfer its distribution system to private
distribution companies in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the Bank. A
distribution operations agreement covering three of Orissa's ten distribution circles is about to be
signed with a private distribution company, an agreed disbursement condition. It leaves seven
more circles to be transferred in stages during project implementation. GRIDCO has a mandate to
privatize its distribution operations by the end of 2000.
2.19  GRIDCO purchases power from OHPC and other generating companies under Power
Purchase Agreements and sells in bulk to its own distribution divisions and to the emerging four



- 16 -
new private distribution companies, which are also allowed (and in future are expected to be able)
to buy directly from the generators.
2.20  GRIDCO is initially owned by the Government of Orissa, which will attempt to attract
private sector participation. At negotiations, agreement was reached that GRIDCO will list its
shares and the Government of Orissa and GRIDCO will offer them for sale to the public in
accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Corporatization and Commercialization
2.21   GRIDCO and OHPC were incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, on April 20 and
21, 1995, respectively and became full-fledged utilities with the transfer of assets on April 1, 1996
under the new Act. Their boards of directors and management were appointed in the course of
1995, including significant non-government representation on the boards and externally-recruited
functional directors in the areas of finance, commercial and human resources development.
Corporatization agreements were signed in March 1996, to further spell out the respective
responsibilities of the Orissa government and its two new utilities. In essence, the Government
reiterated and fleshed out its earlier policy decisions to stay out of their day-to-day management
and give GRIDCO and OHPC management and operational autonomy as commercial
organizations. Events triggering the use of remedies of the Bank under the proposed project
include amendments to their memoranda and articles of association and corporatization
agreements which would materially and adversely affect the operations or financial condition
GRIDCO or OHPC or their ability to carry out the project.
2.22   GRIDCO's and OHPC's tariffs are set so as to enable them to earn returns comparable to
those allowed to private investors in the power sector and make reasonable contributions to the
financing of their investments from internal cash generation. Upon transfer, assets were revalued
at their estimated depreciated replacement cost, raising the historic value of GRIDCO's
transmission and distribution assets by over 200 percent and OHPC's hydro assets by over 300
percent. These are path-breaking decisions - SEBs have never been permitted to revalue their
fixed assets and earn commercial returns - to put GRIDCO's and OHPC's tariffs and finances on a
sound basis and will subsequently, at the time of privatization, enable the Orissa government to
realize a more realistic value for its past investments. They also help eliminate GRIDCO's and
OHPC's dependence on budgetary support from the state government.
Reform Consultation
2.23   Orissa's power sector reform program has been prepared in consultation with the
management, staff and labor unions of OSEB. Consultations with the public at large have taken
place through the forum of the Orissa State Power Consultative Council, which brings together
the state government, OSEB, and its main consumer groups. A comprehensive public information
campaign is also underway. Following the enactment of the reform legislation and the
establishment of the Regulatory Commission, public consultation will be continued, inter alia by
the Regulatory Commission through its new Commission Advisory Committee and direct
hearings.



- 17-
3.   THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.1   The proposed Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project would assist Orissa in: (a)
implementing a program of regulatory, institutional and tariff reforms in its power sector; (b)
supporting the institutional development of GRIDCO, OHPC and the new Regulatory
Commission established under the reform program; (c) reinforcing and rehabilitating Orissa's
power system and its demand-side management to make power supply and consumption more
efficient; and (d) upgrading the power sector's environmental performance and strengthening the
environmental management capabilities of the new utilities.
Project Description
3.2   Part A: Reinforcing and Rehabilitating the Transmission and Distribution Systems and
Developing Private Power Distribution. The proposed project would support GRIDCO and
private distribution companies in carrying out programs to rehabilitate Orissa's transmission and
distribution system and reduce system losses in fiscal 1997-2003.
3.3   Part B: Demand-Side Management (DSM). The project would support GRIDCO's and
the electricity end-users' programs to carry out a state-wide metering and other DSM
investments. (For the purposes of this project, demand-side management is defined as identifying
and implementing initiatives that improve the use of power supply capacity by changing patterns
for demand).
3.4   Part C: Institutional Development, Training and Technical Assistance. The project
would assist Orissa in implement its power sector reform program and support the institutional
development of GRIDCO, OHPC and the Regulatory Commission.
Part A: Rehabilitating Orissa's Transmission and Distribution Systems and Developing
Private Power Distribution (US$599 million of the project's US$740-million base cost).
3.5   Investments under Part A of the proposed project would be used to rehabilitate Orissa's
transmission and distribution system and to reduce the current high level of system losses,
objectives in line with the reform program to develop commercially viable, efficient utilities.
3.6   OSEB/GRIDCO staff, the Planning Working Group of the Reform Implementation
Organization, and Orissa's consultants have prepared a ten-year investment plan for the Orissa
power sector (Annex 3. 1). The project would support the implementation of the plan by funding
the transmission and distribution projects included in the fiscal 1997-2003 time-slice of the plan.
These projects cover 400, 220, and 132 kV transmission lines and substations; 33 kV, I I kV, and 0.4
kV subtransmission and distribution lines; and substations, capacitor banks, and implementation of a
program for the reduction of non-technical losses. By funding the rehabilitation of the transformer
workshops, laboratory equipment, vehicles, and a portion of its initial working capital



- 18 -
requirements, (such items as spares and stocks), Part A of the Project also supports the
establishment of GRIDCO.
Part B: Demand-Side Management (US$97 million base cost).
3.7   Demand-side management initiatives to be implemented under the Project would involve a
mix of pricing reform, metering, and other load management and conservation strategies designed
to increase the incentives to use electricity more efficiently:
*  The level of electricity tariffs has already been raised significantly, for the fifth time in
three years in November 1995. The Regulatory Commission is being established and
financial covenants on OHPC and GRIDCO would be incorporated in the loan agreement
to help maintain proper tariff levels in the future.
*  The structure of electricity tariffs has already been improved and future adjustments would
continue Orissa's the program of structural improvements to contain cross-subsidies and
give consumers more accurate signals about the cost of supply at peak and off-peak.
Once the required time-of-day meters (already purchased) are installed under the proposed
project, time-of-day tariffs would be introduced for large industrial consumers.
*  The reform legislation and licenses require GRIDCO and the new distribution utilities to
promote more efficient use of electricity by their consumers (Annex 2.3). The Regulatory
Commission will enforce this new regulatory obligation.
*  Under the part B of the Project, a program of metering and other investments would be
implemented. Considerable potential exists to improve the efficiency of power supply and
consumption in Orissa through better load management and electricity conservation. The
majority of OSEB's consumer meters inherited by GRIDCO are defective and would be
replaced as the first step of the investment program under Part B. The Metering Working
Group has prepared a US$50 million metering program, which would cover about 13,600
meters for grid substations and other system requirements and for the largest consumers,
about 27,500 three-phase meters for other large consumers, and about 600,000 single-
phase meters for small consumers. Advance procurement started in 1994, first contracts
were awarded in mid-1995.
* Promising specific load management and conservation investments have also been
identified and are being prepared. These include: load management and power factor
compensation in industries; industrial cogeneration in sugar, chemicals, and metallurgical
units; vapor absorption refrigeration in hotels and commercial offices; rewinding of
motors; and municipal water pumping. Part B of the project would support the
implementation of the first batch of these investments and similar projects by GRIDCO
and electricity end-users (Annex 3.2).



- 19 -
Part C: Institutional Development, Training and Technical Assistance (US$44 million base
cost).
3.8   Part C of the Project involves several interrelated components to support the
implementation of the reform program as well as the development of GRIDCO, OHPC and the
Regulatory Commission and the training of their staff. The main components (and consultant
contract values) are listed below. (The status of consultant recruitment is discussed in Chapter 4).
* The Reform Consultant (under a US$13.3 million contract) is helping (since 1994) the
Govemment of Orissa to implement its power sector reform program. Phase I of the
consultant's services has already been completed. The focus of phase 2 work is on the
Regulatory Commission, distribution privatization, competitive bidding for new
generation, and the operationalization of the new decentralized industry and market
structures (Annex 2.3).
* Institution building consultants (under a US$6.8 million contract) are supporting (since
1995) the development of GRIDCO and OPGC (para. 4.2 and Annex 4.1).
* Project management and engineering and environmental services would be provided for
the implementation of Parts A and B (under a contract estimated at about US$8.0 million).
* Two additional technical assistance activities have been prepared and would be
implemented under Part C. They are designed to help OHPC develop its environmental
management capabilities and to help GRIDCO implement the DSM component of the
reform program. These assignments (under contracts estimated at about US$2.0-2.5
million each) would complement the overall development efforts of GRIDCO and OHPC,
respond to specific priority areas under the reform program, and inter alia help implement
the demand-side management and environmental management components specified in
Parts A and B of the project.
* Staff rationalization and training of power sector staff and the provision of related
materials and facilities would also be covered under Part C in accordance with the plans
prepared by GRIDCO, OHPC, and their institutional development consultants.
Environment and Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R)
3.9   The project has a B-rating for the purpose of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, and
no major environmental or resettlement issues are envisaged. Investments would entail mainly
transmission and distribution rehabilitation under Part A and the purchase of meters and other
demand-side management equipment under Part B. The project's environmental assessment is
attached in Annex 3.3, its environmental benefits are summarized in para. 5.3.
3.10  Under the 1980 Conservation of Forest Act, approval for new transmission lines must be
obtained from the regional office of the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF). Power line
routing in India undergoes extensive review in the project planning stage. OSEB (and under the



- 20 -
project, its successor GRIDCO), must include alternative route surveys to demonstrate that the
power line routing involves a minimum of forest land. The alternative routes are surveyed jointly
by GRIDCO and the Government of Orissa's Department of Forestry (DOF) personnel. MOEF
clearance is not required if the joint line survey concludes that no forest land is involved, in which
case DOF would grant a waiver.
3.11   Under the Indian Telegraph Act, transmission towers can be erected on private land;
compensation must be paid. Ownership of the land is therefore not acquired by the transmission
company.
3.12   The appraisal criteria (para. 4.10) for investments to be financed under the project require
GRIDCO to address these and other potential environmental issues and to design such
appropriate mitigation strategies as resettlement and rehabilitation (where needed); studies to
determine transmission line rights of way and the impact on land use (agricultural, forest areas,
wetlands, wildlands) of various substation sites; access roads to remote areas; the clearing and control
of vegetation in rights of ways; control of erosion during construction and along access roads,
substations and transmission tower sites; measures to deal with potential electromagnetic frequency
(EMF) radiation effects; (central government regulations call for minimum transmission line clearance
distances to address EMF effects); radio noise, television interference, and audible noise along
transmission line routes; ways to regulate public access to substations and towers to minimize
electrocution hazards (GRIDCO will effect restriction of public access by fencing and security of
substations and towers). The project management consultants will help GRIDCO appraise investments
and implement Part A of the project, including the preparation and execution of environmental
mitigation.
Cost Estimates
3.13   The project cost is estimated at US$948 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$609 million equivalent (64 percent) and taxes and duties estimated at about
US$195 million equivalent. The total financing required, including interest during construction
(IDC), is US$997 million (Table 3.1 and Annexes 3.1-3.2).



- 21 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
:~~~~~.            : - : , : : : - . - : .   .   .:.   .   :.   - -.:.  .:
sF maedP#1ec Cot                                      LOOtI~          FotI         ~Tt
Base Cost
Transmission and distribution                      200.8             398.4              599.2
Demand-side management                              30.0              66.8               96.8
Institutional Development, Technical                13.2              30.8               44.0
Assistance and Training
Total Base Cost                              244.0             496.0              740.0
Contingencies
Physical b                                          16.1              44.2               60.2
Price '                                             78.5              69.2              147.7
Total Project Cost                           338.6             609.4              948.0
Interest during construction                            18.9              30.3              49.2
Total Financing Required                    15275               3.7              972
* Due to rounding, numbers may not add up. Estimates include taxes and duties equivalent to US$195 million.
a. Adjusted to end-1995 price levels.
b. 10 percent of base costs except where firm estimates based on identical projects (under Part A) were available
or bids or contracts were already in place (under Parts A through D).
c. Bank guidelines for India as of January 11, 1996, based on projected domestic and international rates. Foreign
exchange costs are escalated at 3.3 percent for 1996, 2.3 percent for 1997, 2.5 percent for 1998-2001, 2.4 percent
for 2002 and 2.1 percent for subsequent years (calendar year basis). These estimates for international inflation are
consistent with the Bank's latest G-5 MUV index, which is updated periodically. Local costs are escalated at 8.5
percent for 1996, 8.0 percent for 1997, 7.5 percent for 1998, 7.0 percent for 1999 and 6.0 percent for subsequent
years on a calendar year basis.
Project Financing
3.14   Total financing required for the proposed project, including IDC, is US$997 million, of
which the proposed Bank loan would finance US$350 million equivalent or 57 percent of the
foreign exchange costs excluding IDC. ADB financing, channeled through PFC, is in place. Also
approved and under implementation is ODA's technical assistance grant of about US$19 million
equivalent (pound 12 million). A trust fund, administered by the Bank on behalf of ODA, was set
up in August 1995 to finance the phase 2 services of the Reform Consultant and related items
amounting to about US$11 million equivalent (pound 6.8 million). The balance of ODA's grant is
being administered directly by ODA (para. 4.6).



- 22 -
3.15  The approval of the proposed Bank loan is expected to trigger additional ODA
cofinancing of about US$110 million (pound 75 million) by mid-1996. The Government of
Orissa would provide about US$26 million. Local financiers including PFC, the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI), the General Insurance Corporation and the Life Insurance
Corporation are expected to provide another US$233 million. It is projected that GRIDCO
would finance about US$222 million equivalent from internally generated resources (Table 3.2).
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government of Orissa                 25.6                  0.0                  25.6
ADB                                   0.0                 56.8                  56.8
ODA                                  65.1                 45.0                 110.0
Other Financiers                    233.0                  0.0                 233.0
Internal cash generation             33.8                188.1                221.8
IBRD                                  0.0                350.0                 350.0
All                            357.5                639.7                 997.2
Due to rounding, the numbers may not add up.
Terms and Conditions
3.16  The Borrower would be India, acting by its President. Loan terms would include standard
variable interest rate, five years of grace period and a final maturity of twenty years. The closing
date of the loan would be December 31, 2002. At negotiations, agreement was reached that:
* The Government of India will onlend the proceeds of the loan to the Government of
Orissa, under its standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states, and
that this loan would be fully additional to Orissa's plan assistance.
*  The Government of Orissa will onlend the proceeds to GRIDCO (under Parts A-C of the
project), and, if necessary, to OBPC (under Part C), private distribution companies (under
Part A) and electricity end-users (under Part B) on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and will, without setting off any amounts that may be due to it from GRIDCO and
OHPC, release funds simultaneous to releases by the Government of India.
3.17  The expected onlending terms are a 13 percent rate of interest, five years of grace, and a
final maturity of fifteen years for GRIDCO and OHPC. Comparable terms for onlending would
be offered to private distribution companies and electricity end-users. Onlending by Government
of Orissa to private distribution companies under Part A would be subject to these companies
having been selected through procedures acceptable to the Bank and having submitted
satisfactory project reports and financing plans; the latter requirement would also apply to
onlending by the Government of Orissa or GRIDCO to electricity end-users (under Part B).
GRIDCO would also be allowed to lease items purchased under the loan to private distribution
companies and electricity end-users.



- 23 -
Procurement and Consulting Services
3.18   All Bank-financed procurement would be done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
on Procurement (Table 3.3).
Table 3.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million, amounts to be financed by proposed Bank loan in parentheses)
-~'dect Element                         ICR       NCB       Otber ::.. .
Civil Works                             143.3       9.6       0.0       31.2      184.0
(75.0)     (5.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)     (80.0)
Equipment, materials, and miscellaneous  492.9     36.0       9.5      174.6      712.9
(235.0)    (20.0)     (5.0)      (0.0)    (260.0)
Consultancies and training
Implementation Support                                    5.9        13.0       18.8
(4.5)     (0.0)      (4.5)
Policy Support                                            5.9         6.3       12.1
(4.5)     (0.0)      (4.5)
Capacity-Building                                          1.3       18.9       20.2
(1.0)     (0.0)      (1.0)
Total Project Procurement              636.1       45.5      22.5      243.9      948.0
(310.0)    (25.0)    (15.0)      (0.0)    (350.0)
a. Not Bank financed.  b: Due to rounding, numbers may not add up.
Part A
3.19 US$260 million of the proposed Bank loan is allocated to transmission and distribution
projects under Part A of the project. The bulk of procurement (in terms of value), including all
B^ank-financed contracts, under Part A (which accounts for about 80 percent of the project's total
cost) would be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) using ICB tender
documents approved by the Bank and extensively used under two large POWERGRID loans, Ln.
3577-IN and Ln. 3237-IN. Most would be supply and erection contracts. In view of long lead
times and to obtain most favorable prices through competition, GRIDCO would procure selected
main items (transformers, conductors, switchgear) in bulk on the basis of estimated total
requirements, then make these items available to the supply and erection contractors.
3.20   To provide for better project control and expeditious completion, three large transmission
line supply and erection contracts would be awarded. Each contract would include surveying and
clearing of the line routes; line design; procurement of equipment, materials, and structures
(though some would be made available by GRIDCO); transporting to site; and the construction
and commissioning of the lines. These contracts would range in value from about US$30 million
to US$50 million. One smaller contract, of about US$8 million, will also be awarded. Substation
supply and erection contracts would include design and specification of equipment ensuring
compatibility with existing equipment where necessary; procurement of all equipment, relays, and
cables (though some would be provided by GRIDCO); civil works; and erection, testing, and
commissioning. These four substation contracts would range in value from about US$5 million to



- 24 -
US$ 15 million. The subtransmission and distribution system upgrading contracts would be
awarded as four geographically defined packages, values ranging from about US$35 million to
US$50 million. The bulk supply contracts, about 25 in number, range in value from about US$5
up to US$15 million. A large number of contracts of small value are in implementation or
procurement stage, under financing arrangements not including the Bank.
3.21  Separate civil works contracts are not envisaged under Part A. The erection portion,
including limited civil works under supply and erection contracts, is estimated at about US$130
million, of which about US$70 million equivalent under the proposed loan.
Part B
3.22  US$80 million of the proposed Bank loan is allocated to demand-side management.
Contracts for the supply and installation of meters, for which US$50 million is allocated under the
proposed loan, would be awarded through ICB. Tender documents accounting for about 8
percent of the total project cost have already been finalized by OSEB/GRIDCO and approved by
the Bank. Advanced procurement has started (para 4.11) and three contracts ranging from about
US$1 million to about US$4 million have been awarded.
3.23  The balance of Part B, for which US$30 million is allocated under the proposed loan,
would primarily consist of a large number of small contracts averaging about US$50,000. Most
are expected to fall below the US$250,000 ICB threshold - ICB procurement would account for
about US$5 million. Supply, as well as supply and erection, contracts amounting to about US$20
million would be awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB). National shopping
would amount to about US$5 million, under contracts up to US$25,000 in value, averaging about
US$10,000. Separate civil works contracts are not envisaged. (The erection portion, including
limited civil works under the supply and erection contracts, is estimated at US$5 million
equivalent under the proposed loan).
Part C
3.24  US$10 million ofthe proposed Bank loan is allocated for consultancies and training. The
main Bank-financed consultant contract (the Reform Consultant) has already been awarded (in
accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consulting Services) under Cr. 1356-IN.
Payments under existing contracts would be financed (reimbursed) by the Bank under the
proposed new loan.
3.25  Under the Part C, ODA would recruit and finance the balance of consultants. The balance
of the ongoing phase 2 of the Reform Consultant's services would be financed under the Bank-
administered ODA trust fund. ODA is also expected to finance further services (phase 3 or its
equivalent) and provide consultants to help implement Parts A and B of the project (paras. 4.3
and 4.5). The Bank has not required a cross-conditionality with ODA financing. In case ODA
funding does not materialize or is terminated, such services would be financed under the proposed
Bank loan, in which case Bank guidelines on the use of consultants would apply. Funds would be
reallocated to Part C from Part A.



- 25 -
Bank Reviews
3.26  Prior Bank review of bid documents and approval of all contracts expected to cost the
equivalent of US$500,000 or more would be mandatory. All procurement under Part A,
consultant contracts under Part C, and the metering component of Part B is expected to fall under
this category. Smaller contracts would be subject to selective post-award review. The aggregate
value of such contracts, all to be awarded under Part B, is not expected to exceed US$30 million
(about 9 percent of the total loan amount).
Disbursements
3.27  Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made against:
* 100 percent of foreign currency expenditures (CIF).
*  100 percent of the local ex-factory cost.
* 80 percent of other local expenditures for equipment.
* 70 percent of expenditures for civil works and erection services.
*  100 percent of services rendered by consultants.
3.28  Disbursements for equipment contracts valued at less than US$500,000 equivalent; for
civil works and erection contracts valued at less than US$500,000; and for consulting services
contracts to firms valued less than US$100,000 or to individual consultants valued at less than
US$50,000 would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs), the documentation of
which would not be sent to the Bank but would be retained by GRIDCO and OHPC for
inspection by supervision missions. Total Bank funding for such contracts is estimated at about
US$30 million under Parts B and D. All other disbursements would be fully documented.
3.29  To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established for the Bank loan with
an authorized allocation of US$12.0 million, equivalent to four months of average disbursements
through the Special Account. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government of
India will advance funds to the Government of Orissa and that the Government of Orissa will
advance funds to GRIDCO and OHPC simultaneous with releases by the Bank. Annex 3.4 shows
the estimated disbursement schedule as derived from the construction programs of the project
components assuming normal terms for commercial payments, including retention payments.
Retroactive Financing
3.30  Responding to request from the governments of India and Orissa, the Bank extended the
closing date of Cr. 1356-IN to June 30, 1995 to minimize the gap between the closing of Cr.
1356-IN and the effectiveness of the proposed new loan. The credit was exhausted, however, in
March 1995. Expenditures under eligible contracts originally awarded but not reimbursed under
the credit would be reimbursed by the Bank retroactively at effectiveness of the new loan. At
negotiations, agreement was reached to use up to US$7 million (or 2% of the total loan) for advance
procurement and retroactive financing of logistical inputs for Orissa's Reform Implementation



- 26 -
Organization, essential consulting services and electricity meters, from November 1, 1994. This
would extend the standard 12 month retroactive financing period up to 20 months. Such advance
procurement was necessary to enable Orissa to effectively initiate the implementation of its power
sector reform program. Retroactive financing is subject to submission of standard documentation
and withdrawal applications to the Bank.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Executing and Operating Agencies
4.1    Under Orissa's power sector reform program, the state government's and OSEB's power
sector operations were transferred on April 1, 1996 to the two utilities, GRIDCO and OHPC,
effective from April 1, 1996, the start of India's fiscal 1997. They are described in Chapter 2 and
are discussed in more detail in Annex 2.4 (OHPC) and Annex 2.5 (GRIDCO).
4.2   GRIDCO is responsible for transmission and distribution and would be the executing
agency of Parts A and B of the proposed project. Orissa's transmission facilities including those
to be developed under the project would be operated by GRIDCO. Distribution facilities
including those to be developed under the project would be gradually transferred to private
distribution companies.
4.3    OHPC is responsible for the operations and maintenance of the existing hydroelectric
plants taken over from the state government and OSEB and for the Upper Indravati project.
4.4   Part C of the project provides implementation support to GRIDCO and OHPC, and policy
support for the reform program and capacity building of GRIDCO, OHPC, and the Regulatory
Commission (Annexes 2.3-5). Under Part C of the proposed project, technical assistance would
help GRIDCO and OHPC refine their organizational structure; develop and introduce financial,
personnel, and management systems; and develop staff capacity needed to make the power
companies viable corporate entities (Annex 4.1-2).
4.5   Staff transfer orders were issued on April 1, 1996 on as-is-where-is basis, under existing
personnel policies. They will be refined and discussed with staff in the course of 1996 for the
finalization of GRIDCO' s and OHPC's staff cadres by March 31, 1997. In the past, most of the
OSEB engineers were state government employees seconded to OSEB. GRIDCO and OHPC
officers and other staff will be employees of the companies. A five-year transition plan for staff
rationalization through retraining, redeployment and voluntary retirement is also under
preparation, with the assistance of Orissa's institutional consultants. Staff rationalization and
related support facilities and equipment would be financed under the proposed project mostly by
ODA.



- 27 -
4.6   At negotiations, agreement was reached that GRIDCO and OHPC will:
*  adopt their (1) employee classification, control, and appeal regulations and recruitment
and promotion regulations and (2) five-year staff transition plans by December 31, 1996;
and
*  complete the transfer of staff to their respective cadres by March 31, 1997.
Implementation of Project Components
PartA
4.7   GRIDCO, which would be responsible for the implementation of Part A of the proposed
project, has established a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate day-to-day
implementation. As the distribution privatization program (Annex 2.3) proceeds, selected sub-
transmission and distribution activities and related project implementation responsibilities may
also be transferred to the new private distribution companies.
4.8   Given the significant increase in transmission and distribution investment in Orissa, the
Orissa government and GRIDCO have agreed to engage consultants and POWERGRID to help
implement Part A of the project as GRIDCO's Engineer. PMU will use staff drawn from both
GRIDCO and its consultants for the preparation of project reports, tender documents (including
technical specifications), bid evaluation and the supervision of project implementation. (Terms of
reference are given at Annex 4.3).
4.9   In 1994, OSEB engaged POWERGRID to help implement the transmission lines
associated with the Upper Indravati project. POWERGRID was subsequently invited to join the
PMU to assist with procurement and with the supervision of project implementation.
Construction will be done by contractors under large supply and installation contracts.
Procurement has already started under advance procurement action.
4. 10 The implementation of Part A would start with GRIDCO's proposed 220 kV and 400 kV
double-circuit transmission lines (including optical fibre ground wire and related substations) from
Duburi to Paradeep, Brajarajanagar to Bolangir, and Meramandali to Bidanasi to Chandaka at an
estimated cost of US$65 million. The Bank has reviewed and approved these transmission line
projects. Additional transmission and distribution projects would be proposed to the Bank during
project implementation. The Bank would approve funding on the basis of project reports
prepared by GRIDCO with the assistance of its consultants during project implementation.
Distribution projects submitted for funding could be either GRIDCO's or those of the new private
power distribution companies to be established under the reform program. Criteria for eligibility
(Annex 4.4) include technical feasibility and project justification, environmental assessment
(including rehabilitation and resettlement if any, though none is currently expected), statement
about clearances, and financing plan.
Part B



- 28 -
4.11  The implementation of the metering program has started under advance procurement and
the first proposed contract awards have already been cleared by the Bank. Installation will be the
responsibility of the suppliers. GRIDCO's consultants will assist in further bid evaluation and
implementation supervision.
4.12 Other demand-side management investments would be implemented by GRIDCO with the
assistance of consultants being engaged under Part C. In addition, a power utility would be
engaged under Part C to help GRIDCO implement and operationalize the load research program.
4.13  Investments would be undertaken either by GRIDCO (charged through monthly electricity
bills or leased separately) or by the electricity end-users (to provide the necessary flexibility for
GRIDCO to respond to its clients' requirements). Funding would be provided under the loan and
channeled through GRIDCO, or in the case of larger individual projects, possibly directly by the
Orissa government. In case of onlending of Bank funds by GRIDCO, a project implementation
agreement acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of Bank support. Demand-side
management projects below a threshold value of US$200,000 would not require prior approval by
the Bank, but would have to meet specified eligibility criteria, to be reviewed by the Bank during
project supervision. GRIDCO has established a demand-side management steering committee
chaired by its chairman and managing director to oversee the implementation of the demand-side
management program. The Orissa chapters of the National Productivity Council, Confederation
of Indian Industries, and the Chamber of Commerce are represented on the steering committee.
The Bhubaneswar Branch of the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) is also represented
and is expected to participate in the program as a cofinancier and appraiser of lessees and
borrowers, that is, end-users. Its participation would also facilitate the promotion of the demand-
side management funding facility.
Part C
4.14  The two main consulting services assignments under the reform program began in 1994.
The Reform Consultant - a UK/US/Canadian/Indian consortium of management, financial,
economic, legal, regulatory, power and environment consultants - was engaged in September
1994 under Cr. 1356-IN. The consortium is led by KPMG Management Consulting and
McKenna from United Kingdom. NERA (UK and United States), Monenco-Agra (Canada), and
DCL (India) are members, along with several individual consultants from other firms from all four
countries. Monenco was also engaged in late 1994 under an ADB technical assistance grant for
long-term investment planning for the Orissa power system.
4.15  A British consortium of management, financial, and technical consultants - led by Price
Waterhouse and including Merz MacLellan and Northern Electric - was engaged by ODA in late
1994 to supply institution-building support to GRIDCO and later to OHPC. Their work is being
closely coordinated with the overall reform program and arrangements for close interaction with
the Reform Consultant have been put in place (Annex 4.2). ODA is in the process of recruiting
consultants for OHPC for the environmental management and for GRIDCO for project
management, environmental management and the demand-side management assignments. The



- 29 -
training program for GRIDCO and OlPC will be managed by Price Waterhouse, for the
Regulatory Commission by the Reform Consultant.
Project Monitoring and Implementation Review
4.16 GRIDCO and OHPC, with the help of their consultants, would implement the project
Implementation would be monitored by the Orissa government and closely reviewed by the Bank
(Annex 4.5). Implementation review missions would monitor Orissa's progress in the
implementation of its power sector reform program and compliance with its own policy statement
(para. 2.7).
4.17  In view of the nature of the reform program it supports, the project would require much
more time than is standard at the Bank for supervision. It is estimated to require about forty staff
weeks a year in the first two years, reducing gradually thereafter. In the first three years, the
project would be reviewed in depth annually, the third review being designated a mid-term review
of the proposed project. Part of this intensive supervision effort would be carried out by the
consultants first engaged by the Bank to review the original reform program in early 1994, who
have continued to assist with sector reform implementation and project preparation.
4.18  GRIDCO would submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports covering the work of the
PMU, procurement, physical progress of project components, disbursements, technical assistance
and various administrative and financial aspects of the project. GRIDCO and OHPC would also
subrmit quarterly information to the Bank, on receivables against supply of power, age-analysis of
receivables, commercial payables, and cash-flow statement. Every six months (at the end of June
and December), the Bank would receive information on key financial indicators. The formats for
these reports have already been submitted to the Government of Orissa. GRIDCO and OHPC
would also furnish to the Bank annual financial and audit reports (paras. 4.19-20 and Annex 2.5).
Project Accounts and Audit
4.19  GRIDCO and OHPC would establish separate accounts for the project to be maintained in
accordance with the commercial accounting system defined in the Companies Act. The Special
Account would be maintained by the Government of India in accordance with appropriate
accounting practices.
4.20  At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government of India will:
* Have the records and accounts for the project and those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
* Furnish to the Bank as soon as available - but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each year - the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and detail
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the



- 30 -
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
5.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Benefits of Power Sector Reform
5.1   By implementing power sector reform, Orissa can make its utilities commercially viable
and attractive to capital financiers, private sector as well as official donors. Investments in the
reform program are designed to go well beyond closing today's power gap. They would create
the basis for sustainable future growth of the system. The Reform Implementation Organization
has projected the Orissa power system to be able to reduce the current shortages rapidly and be
able to meet projected electrical energy requirements as soon as the distribution weaknesses are
addressed under the program.
Benefits to Consumers and Orissa Economy
5.2   Closing the chronic gap between power demand and supply will benefit all electricity
consumers. Industrial consumers in particular will benefit from the improved quantity, quality and
reliability of their power supply, since they account for the majority of consumption and bear the
brunt of load shedding and other failures of supply. The Orissa government expects the state's
improved power supply outlook to attract additional industrial investment and encourage existing
industries to expand their production facilities. This expectation is fully in line with national
surveys where industrialists consistently rate power supply as one of their most critical
constraints. The benefits of projected additional supply have been conservatively quantified in the
economic analysis and demonstrated to exceed the costs of the program by a comfortable margin
(paras. 5.14-18 and Annex 5.1).
Environment
5.3   The overall environmental impact of the reform program is expected to be significantly
positive. Higher electricity tariffs and improved metering and collection will encourage electricity
conservation. Orissa's existing thermal generation will be renovated and new capacity will be
constructed and operated by private utilities in accordance with modern practices and national
environmental standards (which are in line with Bank standards). Both major ongoing thermal
projects in Orissa are being developed in accordance with Bank Group environmental standards:
NTPC's Talcher is supported by the Bank; Ib units 3-4 by IFC. Further support for Upper
Indravati's environmental and resettlement and rehabilitation aspects is proposed to be provided
under the proposed project. The proposed transmission and distribution rehabilitation, demand-side
management and technical assistance would significantly reduce power system losses and help
improve the efficiency of electricity consumption in Orissa, thereby also helping to containing
environmental emissions.



- 31 -
Orissa Finances
5.4   By cutting subsidies and reducing public spending in an area where the private sector can
efficiently replace public investment, the power sector reform program will promote fiscal
adjustment and help reduce Orissa's deficit. Given the past large share of the power sector both
in investments and subsidy requirements, sectoral adjustment will have a significant positive
impact on the Orissa govemment finances by eliminating state subsidies to OSEB from fiscal 1997
(para. 5.6), progressively reducing (and ultimately eliminating) the need for state investment in the
power sector, and converting Orissa's financially unrewarding investments in OSEB into
profitable investments (in terms of dividends and debt service) in GRIDCO and OHPC. The
overall impact of these measures would be to reverse the net flow of funds as of fiscal 1998 (para.
5.8). Power sector reform would therefore help reduce the Orissa government's fiscal deficit (a
problem not adequately addressed in India's macroeconomic reform program).
5.5   Power accounted for about 20 percent of Orissa's Seventh plan fiscal 1985-89 investments
and about 26 percent of its Eighth plan (fiscal 1992-97) investments. This puts it second only to
irrigation. But after the implementation of the reform program, power sector investments in
Orissa would be made from internal cash generation by the new corporations and using funds
raised from private investors, other commercial sources, co-financiers, and funds onlend by the
Government of Orissa (including the proposed Bank loan). In the Ninth Plan (fiscal 1998-2002)
power sector investments are expected to be well below 10 percent of Orissa's total and to be
eliminated altogether once the new corporations are fully privatized.
5.6   State subsidies provided to OSEB to enable it to meet its financial targets (including
covenants under Cr. 1356-IN) have grown steadily to take up an increasing share of the
Government of Orissa's resources. Fiscal 1993's power subsidies (about Rs 0.8 billion) accounted
for almost 40 percent of Orissa's total budgeted subsidies. In fiscal 1994, the power subsidy
(including the balance of fiscal 1993 requirement) was about Rs 2.0 billion, due to the need to
clear the state subsidy backlog and make up for the write-off of uncollectable accounts receivable,
which had accumulated over the years. By contrast, estimates for fiscal 1995 indicate that OSEB
covered its costs, although it still required a subsidy of some Rs 0.3 billion to meet its financial
objectives. The five tariff adjustments implemented in 1992-95 will eliminate the need for these
subsidies from fiscal 1997.
5.7   The impact of the reform program on Orissa's state finances goes well beyond the
elimination of subsidies and reduction in state funding for the sector. Although the Govemment
of Orissa will have to provide equity financing to GRIDCO up to fiscal 1999, such outflows will
be smaller than debt service, dividends, and electricity duty inflows from the utilities (Annex 5.2).
The power sector will therefore become a net source of funding to the state, from fiscal 1997.
Annual net inflows to the state would approach US$70 million equivalent in the fiscal 2001-03,
excluding the privatization proceeds which are expected to be substantial over the years. The
impact of onlending Bank funds would initially be revenue neutral (outflows to utilities are
reimbursed by the Bank through the central Govemment) and would become another source of
revenue after project completion, since Orissa's borrowing terms from the Govemment of India
are more favorable than its lending terms to the utilities.



- 32 -
Impact on the Poor
5.8   The proposed project is not directly targeted to the poor, and its main direct poverty
consideration is related to electricity pricing. While Orissa's electricity pricing policy emphasizes
cost recovery, the utilities would continue to provide low-cost (life-line) rates for poor electricity
consumers to ensure that service for basic household uses of electricity remains affordable. It
must also be recognized that while a more commercial approach to sector development may result
in investment plans with more modest system expansion targets than what is commonly evident in
SEBs' plan across India, what actually gets implemented on the ground by GRIDCO and its
distribution successor organizations is likely to far exceed what OSEB would have been able to
actually execute in the coming years. The reform program would indirectly help the poor by
freeing up state funding (as elaborated above) for higher priority use in the social sectors. Most
importantly, by improving the power supply, the program will eliminate one of the most serious
constraints to higher economic growth. Orissa is a poor state even in the Indian context and
poverty is wide-spread. In the long term, its eradication is fundamentally dependent on growth
and employment, the state's direct poverty alleviation interventions notwithstanding. These
indirect impacts are regarded to be more important in Orissa, where connection rates are still low,
in rural areas well below 20 percent of households, and the poor typically do not have a power
connection. The key contribution of power reform to the poor is to lift the burden the power
sector has placed on the state government finances (which mostly these poor indirectly have to
bear) and simultaneously remove the power supply bottleneck to economic activity and growth.
The Specter of a Future with No Power Sector Reform
5.9   Project justification has so far focused on the benefits of the proposed reform program and
on comparisons to the program's total estimated cost. This is a conservative measure of the
project's real overall impact. For without power sector reform, any expansion of generation
capacity in Orissa - beyond the possible eventual completion of the Upper Indravati Project -
would be highly unlikely. In the absence of the reform program, even the Government of India
counter-guarantees and IFC support for the Ib unit 3-4 would have been unlikely. While NTPC
might possibly have taken over OSEB's Talcher in exchange for the electricity OSEB could not
pay for, additional NTPC generation would be diverted to paying clients and away from Orissa.
5.10 Transmission and distribution rehabilitation would also not be possible in the absence of
the proposed Bank loan to finance it. OSEB might have been able to retain the on-going support
through the PFC, but continued compliance with the OFAP and therefore continued access to
PFC funding in the absence of reform would have been doubtful at best.
5.11  Tariff reform - including bulk of the adjustments already implemented since 1993 - would
not have materialized without the prospect of sector reform. OSEB would therefore not have
covered its cost of operations, nor been able to raise funds from intemal cash generation to devote
to future investment. Without improved billing and collection discipline, OSEB would have
continued to accumulate arrears, and at best, system losses would remain at the 45 percent level
of the early 1990s.



- 33 -
5.12  In summary, without a complete power sector overhaul, electricity consumers in Orissa
would face a scenario of deteriorating power supply, increasing average unit costs and higher
costs to the state government - a scenario not unlike that facing several other Indian states in the
coming years. The increasing burden of the power sector on the Orissa government finances,
moreover, would further constrain state funding available for other priority investments, adversely
affecting the development of the state far beyond any direct economic effect caused by the
deteriorating power supply and resultant loss of investment and production.
5.13   Comparing the benefits of the proposed reform project to this admittedly speculative
prospect of no power sector reform, its justification is far stronger and its estimated economic
returns far higher than those derived against the estimated costs of the program alone. This does
not mean that there would be no losers under the program. Consumers presently enjoying free if
unreliable electricity they steal from the system will more often have to pay for electricity, at
increasing rates. Some utility staff will see a corresponding decline in their total earnings, and
some may opt for voluntary separation. Except where workers are affected or terminated because
of theft of electricity, these people would be compensated under the program. OSEB staff and
their labor unions have generally acknowledged that the current system cannot continue and - so
long as a large-scale retrenchment can be avoided - cautiously support the program. The political
burden of OSEB's poor performance and a genuine desire for Orissa's development explain the
wide political support enjoyed by the program once the initial visionary go-ahead signal was given
by Orissa's chief minister in 1993. It is appropriate to conclude by reiterating that the poor and
the environment are beneficiaries, not among the losers, under Orissa's power sector reform
program.
Economic Viability
5.14   The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and
benefit streams associated with the fiscal 1997-2003 time-slice of Orissa's investment program.
Tariff revenue is regarded as the minimum measure of actual benefits, since tariff revenue reflects
only a portion of the total benefits of electricity supply. Yet even with this conservative, revenue-
based benefit valuation, the ERR for the program is about 14 percent.
5.15   A more accurate valuation of the economic benefits of electricity supply was also carried
out. Shares of replaced use were established for alternative sources of energy (diesel generation,
diesel pumping, and kerosene lighting) and energy consumption induced by the availability of
electricity were established for major consumer categories. Induced consumption was then valued
by estimating the consumer surplus - the difference between what the consumers would be willing
to pay for electricity and what they actually pay - and adding that to the tariff revenue. The
replaced use of alternative sources was valued in terms of economic resource cost savings. Using
this analysis, the project's base-case ERR was established at about 17 percent.
5.16  Finally, an analysis was carried out in which the economic value of electricity supply was
based on more conservative estimates of the consumers' surplus. This analysis is yielded an ERR
of about 14 percent. Excluding the consumer surplus entirely, on the other hand, yielded an ERR
of about 13 percent (Annex 5. 1). These results incidentally confirm that electricity is projected to



- 34 -
be priced appropriately under the reform program. Sensitivity analysis confirms the robustness, as
the summary of results in Table 5.1 readily indicates.
Table 5.1. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analyses
(percentage)
1. Base case                                                 16.8                      14.5
2. Transmission and distribution                              16.4                     14.2
investment up by 10 percent
3. System loss reduction decelerated                          15.8                     13.7
(losses up by 10 percent)
4. Generation down by 10 percent                              15.4                     13.2
5. Average tariff revenue down by 20 percent                  15.1                      8.6
6. Scenarios two through four combined                        14.1                     12.0
7. Scenarios two through five combined                        12.5                      6.3
a. Benefits valued at economic replacement cost and willingness to pay.
b. Benefits valued at tariff revenue.
5.17   Changes in the costs of the investment program and in the implementation schedules of its
individual components would not significantly affect the economic viability of the present time
slice. The impact on the program of lower than projected generation due to lower-than-projected
demand or somewhat slower than projected loss reduction performance is similarly not
threatening. A reduction in demand growth would affect the timing of new projects but not that
of generation projects within the present time slice (Upper Indravati and Ib units 3-4). For
despite problems with implementation, these projects would be needed in the system even before
their current commissioning dates. The transmission and distribution rehabilitation program is
also urgently required, and only the timing of transmission lines directly associated with new
generating stations would need to the adjusted.
5.18   The critical role of proper electricity pricing is confirmed in this sensitivity analysis. Cases
where tariff revenue - rather than willingness to pay - is used as a measure of benefit, show how
the returns drop sharply if tariffs are not properly adjusted. Tariff reform is one of the key
elements of the reform program and the Regulatory Commission is expected to authorize
adjustments and enable utilities meeting its performance standards to earn reasonable returns. It is
evident, as the results summarized in Table 5.1 readily demonstrate, that the investment program
is viable, economically attractive and robust to changes; as long as the underlying reform program
continues to be implemented. These results are linked to qualitative risks and safeguards below.
Risks and Safeguards
5.19   The major project risk is its direct dependence on Orissa's political willingness and
capability to implement the reform program. The government and OSEB have so far



- 35 -
demonstrated strong commitment to the program by implementing difficult and typically
unpopular measures by raising tariffs, improving collection and lowering subsidies, and are now
actively pursuing privatization. These are concrete signs that Orissa has embarked towards a
primarily commercial behavior in power sector management and operations. As long as the key
elements of the reform program proceed as planned, the project and Orissa's overall power sector
investment program remain viable under a wide range of implementation difficulties (Table 5.1).
Should the reform program collapse, inter alia resulting in minimal tariff adjustments, stagnation
of distribution rehabilitation, loss reduction and revenue collection, and further slowdown of
investments, the economic viability of the investment program would also be threatened - and its
financial viability would disappear.
5.20  The implementation of the reform program has continued after a change of state
government in March 1995, demonstrating its political support in Orissa, and the wide recognition
of the need for a fundamental change in the state's power sector. The new state government
quickly reviewed and adopted the program, as evidenced by the submission of a formal statement
of its power policy in April 1995 (para. 2.7). The commitment was demonstrated in a most
concrete fashion by the November 1995 tariff adjustment, Central government clearance and State
Assembly approval of Orissa Electricity Reform Act, and the transfer orders under the new Act on
April 1, 1996. Therefore, given the outlook for reasonable electricity tariffs and the interest
already expressed by various reputable private investors to take over existing assets and invest in
new developments, successful reform is feasible though by no means guaranteed.
5.21   Orissa's capability to develop and manage the two new utilities and the regulatory
commission is a major project risk. Appropriate management arrangements and safeguards
against future government interference are key features of project design (Annex 5.3). Orissa has
acknowledged that while technical skills are readily available, the required management expertise
is in short supply. Therefore, the boards of directors of GRIDCO and OHPC include several non-
government part-time directors and outside functional directors as well, for financial, commercial
and human resource areas. The government invited to GRIDCO's board two individuals who
were instrumental in the initial institution building of POWERGRID, for ready access to that
highly relevant experience. A comprehensive range of external support has also been engaged.
While a variety of problems will continue to be faced in the reform process, the new entities with
their outside directors and external support are expected to be able to meet the challenges and
maintain reform momentum.
5.22  The Bank intends to continue its current close involvement in the implementation of the
power sector reform program through intensive supervision and its active dialogue with
cofinanciers to help Orissa secure their continued support for the program. Continued Bank
support would inter alia depend on the state allowing persons it has appointed to manage
GRIDCO and OHPC and to lead the Regulatory Commission independently in accordance with
the state's power sector policy statement. The Bank would have remedies under the loan
agreement to deal with noncompliance with this policy statement or failure to meet other
commitments; moreover, the Bank has an established track record in Orissa of using such
remedies, including the cancellation of Ln. 2278-IN in 1991 and the suspensions of Cr. 1356-IN



- 36 -
on three different occasions. The emphasis will, however, be on helping Orissa face both the
expected and unforeseen challenges in reform implementation in particular at times of trouble.
5.23   Given the fundamental structural changes involved, the reform program's implementation
necessarily entails a number of financial, commercial and institutional risks. These have been
analyzed and appropriate safeguards have been built in to the project design (Annex 5.3). The
project's main financial and commercial risk relates to tariff reform and the utilities' ability to
recover charges from their clients. Special attention has been paid to ensure that power
distribution, the foundation of the sector, will be developed commercially, with arrangements in
place to ensure satisfactory attention to loss reduction and revenue recovery. This will be
accomplished essentially by transferring responsibility for distribution to specialized private
companies whose survival depends on their success in addressing Orissa's current problems in
distribution. To minimize the initial operational complexities during the transition from a state
controlled monolith to decentralized market structures, GRIDCO, in addition to being the grid
company (a transmission company and coordinator of system operations) will initially also be
responsible for central power procurement.
5.24  Proven technologies will be used throughout the project, which does not therefore pose
any particular technical risks in implementation or operation. Sensitivity analysis has established
that the impact on the ERR brought about by a combination of substantial adverse changes would
be acceptable (Table 5.1) with appropriate pricing of electricity by the Regulatory Commission.
5.25   Legislative risks at central and state levels have been mitigated by securing the
Government of India clearance for Orissa's reform legislation and by Orissa enacting the
legislation. Through its broader policy dialogue with India, moreover, the Bank continues to
emphasize the role of the Central Govemment in state power restructuring. The Govemment of
India is expected to provide political leadership and support to reforming states, undertake the
reforms required at the central level to pave the way for state power reform, and encourage
parallel reform initiatives in other states besides Orissa.



- 37 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
6.1   Agreements were reached at negotiations that:
(a)   The Govemment of India will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the
Government of Orissa, under the Government of India's standard arrangements of
developmental assistance to the states, and fully additional to Orissa's regular
central assistance (para. 3.16).
(b)   The Govemment of Orissa will onlend the proceeds to GRIDCO (under Parts A-C
of the project), and, if necessary, to OHPC (Part C), private distribution companies
(under Part A) and electricity end-users (under Part B) at terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and will, without setting off any amounts that may be due
to it from GRIDCO and OHPC, release funds simultaneous with releases by the
Govemment of India (paras. 3.16 and 3.29).
(c)   The Govemment of India would: (1) have the records and accounts for the project
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (2) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year together with the procedures and
intemal controls involved in their preparation can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals (para. 4.20).
6.2   Agreements were reached at negotiations that:
(a)   the Government of Orissa will fumish to the Bank (1) by December 31 each year, a
statement of the Regulatory Commission's estimated expenditure for the ensuing
financial year as prepared by the Commission; and (2) by March 31 each year, the
Regulatory Commission's approved budget for the ensuing financial year (Annex
2.3, para. 8).
(b)   the Government of Orissa will indemnify GRIDCO for all liabilities that may be
incurred by GRIDCO as a result of commitments made by the Govermment or
OSEB under power purchase agreements, Memoranda of Understanding or other
similar arrangements with independent power producers (Annex 2.3, para. 15).



- 38 -
Specific Financial Objectves to be Achieved by GRIDCO and OHPC
6.3    Agreements were reached at negotiations that:
(a)    OHPC will take all such measures (including adjustments of the level and structure
of its tariffs) and conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as to achieve:
(1) in fiscal 1997, revenues from all sources related to operations and non-
operating income sufficient to cover all expenses related to operations (including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes, adequate
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges
on debt, and (2) in each subsequent fiscal year such rate as may be permissible
under applicable Government of India notifications (Annex 2.4, para. 14).
(b)    GRIDCO will take all such measures (including adjustments of the level and
structure of its tariffs) and conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as to
achieve: (1) in fiscal 1997, revenues from all sources related to operations and net
non-operations' income sufficient to cover all cash expenses related to operations
(including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes,
and interest and other charges on debt); and (2) in fiscal 1998 a rate of return on
its capital base of not less than 10 percent and in each subsequent fiscal year such
rate as may be permissible under the Electricity Act or prescribed by the
Regulatory Commission, whichever is higher (Annex 2.5, para. 16).
(c)    OBPC and GRIDCO will from fiscal 1998 not incur any debt unless a reasonable
forecast of their revenues and expenditures show that their estimated net revenues
for each financial year during the term of the debt to be incurred would be at least
1.5 times their estimated debt service requirements in such year on all their debt,
including the debt to be incurred (Annex 2.4, para. 15 and Annex 2.5, para. 18).
(d)   OHPC and GRIDCO will from fiscal 1997 maintain accounts receivable at a level
not exceeding two months average billing, and accounts payable not exceeding
two months equivalent of purchases (Annex 2.4, para. 15 and Annex 2.5, para.
21).
(e)    OHPC and GRIDCO will from fiscal 1997 furnish annually by December 31 their
five-year financial projections, including their investment programs and financing
plans, for Bank review and comments (Annex 2.4, para. 16 and Annex 2.5, para.
22).
(f)    OHPC and GRIDCO will from fiscal 1997 (1) have their records, accounts, and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses, and
related statements) audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; and (2) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later



- 39 -
than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request
(Annex 2.4, para. 17 and Annex 2.5, para. 24).
Disbursement Conditions
6.4   Agreement was reached at negotiations that disbursements for Part A of the Project will
commence after:
(a)   One distribution area has been placed under a lease/management contract
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.18).
(b)   The Regulatory Commission has been formally established in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 2.13).
Selected Reform Milestones
6.5   Agreements were reached at negotiations that:
(a)   GRIDCO and OHPC will: (1) develop and adopt their classification, control and
appeal regulations and recruitment and promotion regulations and five-year staff
transition plans by December 31, 1996; and (2) complete the transfer of staff to
their respective cadres by March 31, 1997 (para. 4.6).
(b)   GRIDCO and OHPC will list their shares and the Government of Orissa, GRIDCO
and OHPC will offer them for sale to the public in accordance with a program and
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 2.15 and 2.20).
(c)   GRIDCO will gradually transfer its distribution system to private distribution
companies in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.15).
Recommendation
6.6   With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of
US$350 million equivalent to India at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, repayable over
twenty years including five years of grace.



Annex 1. I
Page I of 7
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
AN OVERVIEW OF THE INDIAN POWER SECTOR
Organization and Regulation
1.    Responsibility for the electricity supply in India is shared constitutionally between the
central government and the states. The Electricity Act of 1910 provided the initial legal
framework that still today govems the operations of licensees, that is, the existing private utilities.
As amended, the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 provides the overall regulatory framework for
the sector, charging the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) with developing a national power
policy and with planning, coordinating, and regulating sector development. The 1948 Act also
empowers the central government (currently the Ministry of Power) to make rules for carrying
out CEA' s objectives by means of notification in the Official Gazette. The 1948 Act created the
SEBs and entrusted them with primary responsibility for public power supply as well as for
related state-level regulation. The boards were envisioned as largely self-governing entities
empowered to set tariffs and monitor licensees. But after the Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956
defined the aspects of generation and distribution that were the exclusive responsibility of the
states, the once-significant role of private utilities gradually diminished. Today, following the
1991 amendments, it is recognized that various sections of the 1948 and 1910 Acts could be
modernized, but there are no fundamental legal obstacles preventing private investment from
entering into the sector.
Central Sector
2.    Since the 1970s, the central government has been actively involved in power development
in India to complement the efforts of the states. The Government of India currently owns several
generating companies (including the National Thermal Power Corporation, NTPC, and the
National Hydroelectric Power Corporation, NBPC) and the new national transmission company
and grid operator, the Power Grid Corporation of India (POWERGRID). These utilities were
incorporated under the Companies Act.
3.    The Ministry of Power (MOP) approves tariff-setting principles for the centrally-owned
entities. Tariff proposals are reviewed by the Central Electricity Authority which then sends them
to the MOP for notification. Tariffs are determined on a cost-of-service basis and are subject to
basic performance standards. The utilities' financial viability is ensured to the extent that their
tariff revenues cover operational costs, including debt service. The Government of India also
owns two power sector financial intermediaries, the Power Finance Corporation and the Rural
Electrification Corporation.
4.    The Ministry of Non-Conventional Energy Sources administers the Government's
renewable energy program, which seeks to meet the decentralized energy needs of rural areas to



Annex 1. 1
Page 2 of 7
supplement conventional power supply with such alternative energy sources as mini-hydro,
biomass, wind and solar-power systems. The Government provides budgetary resources for
demonstration projects and promotes private investment through various fiscal incentives, while
the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA) provides institutional financing.
State Sector
5.    The states own the SEBs and State Generating Companies, which together generate
almost 70 percent of India's electricity supply and provide most of the distribution to consumers.
The 1948 Act explicitly requires the SEBs to operate "in the most efficient and economical
manner" and mandates that they adjust their tariffs to achieve a minimum retum, after interest, of
3 percent on net fixed assets in operation. The Act, however, allows a state to specify a higher
return target for its SEB than the statutory minimum return. Further, it specifies that interest on
loans from the state governments is to be paid by the SEBs only after meeting the minimum
return. States are, in fact, required to provide subsidies to help the SEBs meet the minimum
return requirement, by compensating the SEBs inter alia for low tariffs to residential consumers
and for using the SEBs as administratively convenient vehicles for agricultural input subsidies.
6.    For most SEBs, meeting the statutory 3 percent after-interest return would cover
operating costs and debt service provided state government subsidies were fully paid on time and
bill collection were reasonable. Because of their poor operational performance, low tariffs, and
inadequate subsidies, however, most SEBs do not reach the Act's statutory minimum returns.
Their aggregate operating losses are in fact rising, and operating deficits and capital expenditures
are presently financed by borrowing or from state budgetary resources.
Private Utilities
7.    At independence private utilities and licensed local authorities together provided about 80
percent of India's public electricity supply. But when their licenses expired, most licensees were
taken over by the SEBs, in line with the 1956 Industrial Policy Resolution. Today, only five of
the private utilities originally licensed under the 1910 Electricity Act remain: Bombay Suburban
Electric Supply (BSES) and Tata Electric Companies (TEC) in Bombay, Ahmedabad Electricity
Company (AEC), Surat Electric Company, and Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation (CESC) in
Calcutta.
8.    Then in 1991 India reversed its long-standing policy on private investment in the sector.
Power was removed from the list of activities reserved for the public sector in the Industrial
Policy Resolution, and the 1948 Act was amended to lift many of the regulatory disincentives to
private investment in the power sector. These changes were fully consistent with the Government
of India's objective to tap the financial, technical, and managerial capabilities of the private sector
in areas previously restricted to the public sector.
9.    India now allows full local or foreign private ownership of power companies and offers a
thirty-year license with the prospect of twenty year renewals and increased financial returns.
Provision is also made in the 1948 Act for private generating companies and captive plants to sell
power to the SEBs. Additional incentives were introduced in the Government of India budget for



Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 7
fiscal 1994 included reducing the import duty on power projects to 20 percent and offering new
private power projects a five-year tax holiday.
Grid Operations
10.   Indian utilities are grouped into five regional interconnected power systems in the Eastern,
Northern, North-Eastern, Southern, and Western regions of India. In 1964 the Government of
India created Regional Electricity Boards to bring the state boards together with the central and
joint sector utilities to coordinate system operations in their respective regional grids. It also
entrusted the Central Electricity Authority with the development and operation of Regional Load
Dispatch Centers to support the regional boards. In 1991, an amendment of the 1948 Act
strengthened the authority of the Regional Electricity Boards by requiring generating companies
and licensees to follow their instructions.
11.   In 1993, under the POWERGRID System Development Project (Ln. 3577-IN), the central
government agreed to transfer the Regional Load Dispatch Centers and their operational
responsibilities from the Central Electricity Authority to POWERGRID. The transfer program
was implemented on schedule and completed in January 1996. POWERGRID, in cooperation
with the SEBs and with Bank support, is implementing projects to develop modern coordination
and control systems for the Northern and Southern regions. It has also prepared similar projects
for the Eastern, Western, and North-Eastern regions, all expected to go into implementation in the
course of 1996. A recently-completed study confirmed the need for further improvements in the
structure of bulk power and transmission tariffs, and work on the recommended modifications has
began under an action plan approved by the central government as agreed under Ln. 3577-IN.
Electricity Supply, Demand, and Retail Tariffs
12.   As of March 1995, India's power system had an installed capacity of about 81,000 MW
(comparable to that of France), of which about 26 percent hydroelectric and the balance thermal,
mostly coal fired. In fiscal 1995, this system generated about 351,000 GWh of electricity, with
about 77 percent by thermal plants and about 23 percent by hydroelectric power. In fiscal 1982
installed capacity was only 32,350 MW and generation 114,000 GWh, but while system capacity
has expanded rapidly, supply continues to lag behind demand.
13.   Along with the growth of supply, the availability and operational efficiency of India's
generation plants has also improved, further increasing their overall annual output, or their plant
load factor. These improvements reflect a strengthening of plant operations and maintenance and
are particularly commendable in view of the deteriorating quality of the coal supply.
Improvements, however, have been uneven among the SEBs, with most being attributable to the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), which currently provides about 30 percent of
India's thermal power supplies. NTPC's operational efficiency and plant load factor consistently
surpass that of most state utilities by a wide margin. But power station auxiliary consumption in
India still exceeds 10 percent and technical and commercial losses in transmission and distribution
are excessive. Officially reported at 22 percent of net generation, actual system losses are of the
order of 30-40 per cent for most SEBs. The official 22 percent represents a reasonable estimate
of the technical losses, but ignores the commercial losses including theft.



Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 7
Tariffs and Consumption
14.   India's industrial and commercial sectors consume about half of all its generated electric
power, agriculture reportedly uses over a quarter; and residential consumption, various public
services, and other miscellaneous groups account for the balance. In fiscal 1995, average retail
tariff revenue was about Rs 1.33 per kilowatt-hour (kWh), up significantly from about Rs 1.05
per kWh in fiscal 1993, showing the impact of central government pressure on the states to raise
tariffs. But increases in real costs, particularly for fuel and wages, have largely offset the
increases in plant efficiency and real tariffs. Average tariff revenue therefore still remains below
actual costs, estimated at about Rs. 1.60 per kWh for fiscal 1995, and at about half of the revenue
that would result from pricing based on the long-run marginal costs.
15.   Tariff differentials among consumer groups have widened. Rates to industrial consumers
have been raised and are in most states well above actual cost of supply, in fact close to, and in
some cases even above, long-run marginal costs. Average industrial tariff revenue in fiscal 1995
was about Rs. 2.12 per kWh. Agricultural tariffs have fallen in real terms, and at an estimated
average of Rs 0.22 per kWh for fiscal 1995, cover less than a fifth of actual costs and less than 10
percent of long-run marginal costs. Compounding the problem is the utilities' poor collection rate
from farmers and high transmission and distribution losses for rural supply. A similar situation
applies to the residential use of electricity, where tariffs are typically heavily subsidized and -
particularly in urban areas - meter-tampering and other forms of electricity theft are widespread.
16.   Low power tariffs have fostered wasteful end-use of energy and increased demand in the
residential and agricultural sectors. Most strikingly, agriculture's share in total consumption is
reported to have grown from about 17 percent in fiscal 1982 to about 28 percent in fiscal 1995.
Along with increases in average revenues, structural improvements in electricity tariffs and
improved metering are essential across India to contain cross-subsidies and promote more
efficient use of electricity.
17.   But while subsidization, flat tariff rates, and unmetered supplies have undoubtedly
accelerated the agricultural and residential use of electricity, many states are also suspected of
substantially overstating unnetered sales as a way to avoid reporting increasing system losses
from non-technical factors and chronic under-investment. Instead of admitting increasing system
losses including theft, most states prefer to report increasing sales to agriculture, a priority sector
across India.
Supply Outlook
18.   Power shortages today are estimated at about 10 percent of total electrical energy and 20
percent of peak capacity requirements and are likely to increase in the coming years in several
parts of India. Financial constraints will keep generation capacity additions during the Eighth Plan
(fiscal 1993-97) to less than 20,000 MW, as compared to the original 48,000 MW capacity-
addition requirement. The Ninth Plan (fiscal 1998-2002) projected capacity additions from
conventional sources at about 57,000 MW. This, however, is highly unlikely to be achieved
because of financing constraints and the long gestation period for power projects in India.



Annex 1I.1
Page 5 of 7
19.   India's power generation is largely coal based, and over a half (about 30,000 MW) of the
proposed Ninth Plan addition is to be provided by coal-fired plants. India's dependence on coal-
based power development is justified in terms of coal resources and economics of indigenous
coal-mining and power generation. But environmental considerations (including ash disposal) will
affect the pace and restrict the siting of coal-based power development. The capacity of India's
coal sector would also be severely strained to produce the additional coal required. Fundamental
issues in the coal sector (including the productivity, pricing, and profitability of indigenous
mining; environmental management; resettlement and rehabilitation; private sector participation
and coal import policy) are being addressed by the central government and Coal India Ltd. under
the proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project to help improve the quality and increase the
quantity of coal supply to public and private sector generators for the future.
20.   India presently has few alternatives to a coal-based power development strategy.
Hydroelectric power development will continue to be constrained by inter-state water issues and
environmental and resettlement considerations. The long gestation period of hydroelectric
projects, that succeed in obtaining the required elaborate agreements and clearances and actually
go into construction, makes achieving the additional 19,000 MW projected in the Ninth Plan
virtually impossible. The increase in gas-based power generation is slowed by lack of resource
development. Until large-scale gas import projects materialize, it will also be constrained by the
limited natural gas reserves.
21.   India's renewable energy program is among the most active in the world. Progress is
being made in such areas as wind, solar-photovoltaic, bagasse and biogas, and mini-hydroelectric
energy generation. As an example, as of October 1995, India had about 650 MW of installed
wind-power capacity and another 200 MW under construction. The renewable resources
program is supported by several donors, including the Bank Group under the Renewable
Resources Development Project (US$115 million under Cr. 2449-IN), and a grant from the
Global Environment Facility (US$26 million). As of December 1995, IREDA had provided
funding for over 600 renewable energy projects. But while yielding encouraging and locally
significant results and contributing to India's power supply, renewable energy will not be able to
cover India's projected energy supply shortfall in the foreseeable future.
22.   It can also be argued that India does not actually need to add the 57,000 MW as projected
for the Ninth plan, since demand could be contained by more realistic pricing and other demand-
side management measures (improvements in the performance of existing capacity and reductions
in system losses are included in the government's estimate). The Bank's 1991 study of long-term
issues in the power sector estimated that by fully implementing various measures to improve
electricity end-use efficiency, as much as 30 percent of maximum demand and 20 percent of
electrical energy could theoretically be saved over time. More meaningful for the short-term, the
study estimated that raising electricity tariffs to long-run marginal cost levels over five years
would reduce demand for generation capacity by about 8,700 MW (or about 10 percent of the
power demand estimated for the end of the Ninth Plan).
23.   Some progress can reasonably be expected in the coming years. Electricity prices to
industrial and commercial customers are already high, and pressures to improve productivity -
including the more efficient use of electricity - have increased rapidly under the Government's



Annex 1. I
Page 6 of 7
economic liberalization program. India's increasingly competitive business environment is also
expected to cause companies to pursue low-cost conservation measures more aggressively.
Time-of-day pricing needs to be introduced to provide an incentive to shift loads to off-peak
periods. But companies often defer the substantial investments typically required to gain more
substantial savings, preferring rather to invest in expanding their production facilities. As long as
the low and heavily subsidized residential and agricultural tariffs and relaxed bill collection
practices continue, little progress can be expected in these consumer sectors. The realization of a
significant part of the theoretical maximum savings arrived at in the 1991 Bank study would
require the majority of the states to implement the kind of power sector reforms that are being
pursued in Orissa. But the current outlook suggests that most states in India will not be able to
apply this option in the near term, pointing to worsening power shortages in the next few years.
State Electricity Boards
24.   The SEBs' lack of autonomy and the poor revenues from politically-inspired tariffs have
weakened them to the point of operational and financial crisis. Aggregate financial subsidies
received by the agricultural and residential consumers - conservatively defined as the difference
between actual tariffs and the tariffs required to recover actual cost of supply without cross or
state subsidies - amounted to about US$4.6 billion or 1.6 percent of India's 1996 GDP. Almost
80 percent of this windfall goes to agriculture, and the balance goes to residential consumers.
25.   Subsidies - which the states provide the SEBs as a (vastly insufficient) compensation for
unrealistically low retail tariffs - have stagnated in rupee terms since fiscal 1992 reflecting the
states' fiscal constraints. In fiscal 1996 state electricity subsidies amounted to the equivalent of
about US$600 million or about 0.2 percent of GDP leaving the SEBs to bear a deficit of about
US$4.0 billion of the US$4.6 billion subsidy the SEBs provided to agricultural and residential
sectors. Cross subsidies from industrial and commercial consumers provided the SEBs with about
US$1.8 billion (about 0.6 percent of GDP), reducing their 1996 commercial losses to about
US$2.2 billion (about 0.8 percent of GDP).
26.   When estimated as the difference between revenue from tariffs set to enable the sector to
operate commercially (defined here as earning returns high enough for the utilities to be able to
attract and service debt and equity raised from capital markets) and actual tariffs, aggregate
financial subsidies to agriculture and residential sectors exceed 2 percent of GDP. In addition to
low tariff rates, SEBs' poor bill-collection performance (partly due to political pressures)
subsidizes consumers still further, which in turn further undercuts the SEBs' financial position.
Together the commercial losses of the SEBs, state power subsidies, and investments in power
account for about 4 per cent of India's GDP and are almost entirely financed through central and
state budgetary resources. Successful state power sector reform could therefore significantly
reduce the claims of the power sector on fiscal resources and directly strengthen India's public
finances, along with its positive indirect fiscal impact through removing power supply bottlenecks
to increase industrial development and economic growth.
27.   Non-performing SEBs' burden on the Indian economy, moreover, is even higher than
revenue and cost indicators suggest. The poor quality and reliability of the power supply take an
additional toll on the current operations and expansion plans of industry, constraining industrial



Annex 1. 1
Page 7 of 7
development and economic growth. Given the poor financial position of the SEBs and the limited
capacity and willingness of central government to provide guarantees, there is little prospect that
in the absence of state power reform, private investment in generation will materialize anywhere
near the levels needed to close the gap between projected demand in India and today's public
sector supply.



Annex 1.2
Page 1 of3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE INDIAN POWER SECTOR
1.    Over the last decade and up to the early 1990s, IBRD followed a three-pronged strategy
in its lending to the power sector in India. Firstly, it supported agencies owned by the
Government of India, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in particular, as a means
of effecting sector-wide improvements. Secondly, it financed a selected number of state
electricity boards (SEBs) whose management and state governments appeared to be committed to
improving their performance. Finally, and in close cooperation with IFC, it financed existing
private power utilities and encouraged the Government to lower entry barriers for new investors.
The success of this strategy has been uneven, reflecting fundamental sectoral weaknesses.
Operations with central sector and private utilities have been generally successful. Despite some
progress, SEBs in general did not respond to the Government's initiatives, and up to 1993 there
was no effective mechanism to enforce compliance or elicit cooperation, even in case of non-
payment for central sector electricity. It has become painfully clear that a sustainable solution to
the sector's problems will have to focus on SEBs, instead of attempting to resolve the power
crisis only through central or private sector generation capacity additions.
2.    Experience from NTPC and POWERGRID Operations. Project completion reports and
the Performance Audit Reports l recognize the achievements and success of NTPC in project
implementation. Despite delays in the pre-construction stages, NTPC generally completed the
projects on schedule and within budget, reflecting the strong project management capability it has
developed. Quality control procedures introduced by NTPC helped improve the quality standards
of power equipment supplied by Indian manufacturers. NTPC has grown rapidly into a 15,625
MW generation company. As NTPC's operational performance exceeds the SEB average by a
wide margin, its impact shows in power generation statistics as an overall sectoral improvement.
Not surprisingly, NTPC has not in the past inspired fundamental improvements in the SEBs. This
was somehow expected in the 1980s, without granting NTPC a mandate or mechanism to even
try to achieve such results. A substantial part of the latest loan, Ln. 3632-IN approved in June
1993 for the NTPC Power Generation Project, has been committed. Notwithstanding generally
satisfactory progress in the Environmental Action Plan under that project, problems are still being
experienced in the implementation of NTPC's new resettlement and rehabilitation policy
particularly in the Singrauli area. NTPC is taking remedial actions to address the problems. The
Bank's initial experience with POWERGRID is virtually identical, reflecting the strong influence
of NTPC in its project management and implementation systems and the transfer of most of its
key personnel from NTPC. While POWERGRID struggled to launch the delayed Northern
Region Transmission Project (Ln. 3237-IN) taken over from NHPC and CEA, it has recently
I  The latest OED Performance Audit Report, No. 10854, was issued in February 1993.



Annex 1.2
Page 2 of 3
awarded contracts committing the major part of the loan, bringing its implementation in line with
the POWERGRID System Development Project (Ln. 3577-IN) approved in March 1993.
3.    Bill collection has been a persistent problem. NTPC and POWERGRID have only
recently been able to meet their two months account accounts receivable covenant, first
introduced for NTPC under Ln. 2555-[N in 1985. Intensified collection efforts and central
appropriations (direct payments by the Government from central assistance intended to the
concerned states) have reduced accounts receivable and further improvements have been achieved
after the adoption of NTPC's and POWERGRID's new investment and commercial policies as a
result of a prolonged dialogue with the Bank during the preparation of Ln. 3577-IN and Ln.
3632-lN. After initial hesitation in applying the new policies and under consistent Bank pressure
(including an informal suspension of disbursements under Bank loans to NTPC and
POWERGRID in early 1994), supply restrictions have been applied by NTPC and/or
POWERGRID in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in the Northern region, all three states (Bihar,
Orissa and West Bengal) in the Eastern region and Andhra Pradesh in the South. The overall
collection performance has improved and has been generally satisfactory since mid-1994, though
problems with a few individual states including Uttar Pradesh continue.
4.    As of March 1996, NTPC's accounts receivable, net of central appropriations, were at
about 2.5 months. Excluding tariff disputes (in arbitration since mid-1994), this comes down to
2.0 months. POWERGRID has collected its current bills, after a difficult start, remarkably well
since early 1994, and such receivable as of March 31, 1996 were at about 1.9 months. Its overall
accounts receivable position is, however, still unsatisfactory at about 4.4 months. This is due to
unresolved bill disputes (also in arbitration since mid-I 994) and extraordinary delays in
Government tariff notifications, which add 0.8 months and 1.7 months, respectively, to the 1.9
months of current receivables. The implementation of Rihand II power station extension project,
approved for funding under Ln. 3632-IN, has been deferred by NTPC, in line with the new
investment policy. The main reason is the unsatisfactory accounts receivable position and
continuing tariff disputes with the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board (UPSEB), the state in
which the plant is to be located and its main beneficiary. The appraisal of the proposed
POWERGRID II has been deferred by the Bank, inter alia pending resolution of the tariff
disputes and notification of new tariffs. Umpires appointed by the Government to arbitrate the
disputes are expected to issue their long-awaited rulings in May 1996.
5.    Experience with SEBs. Beginning in the mid-I 980s, IBRD attempted to improve the
performance of SEBs by direct involvement at the state level. This approach, involving close
lending relationships with the SEBs, has generally been unsuccessful. Projects with institutionally
and financially weak SEBs have not met expectations (beyond their physical construction
activities). This has forced the Bank to apply increasingly strong remedies, including suspension
of disbursement and subsequent cancellations of loans to the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
(DESU), the states of Karnataka, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh, and formal threat of suspensions of
loans to the states of Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. The Bank's stance yielded positive responses
from some of the concerned state governments at the time of acute crisis, including substantial
tariff adjustments in Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh, but most of the SEB
operations have not resulted in any measurable sustained improvements in performance. More



Annex 1.2
Page 3 of 3
fundamental reforms in the structure and management of the sector, along the lines outlined in
para. 1.21 of the main text, are therefore necessary for future Bank state-level power operations.
6.    Experience with Private Utilities. The Bank's and IFC's experience with India's private
utilities has been generally satisfactory. Unlike the SEBs, private utilities have been allowed by
their respective state governments to operate autonomously and in a technically and financially
viable manner. They have not suffered from the financial problems of the central government-
owned entities either. The power they generate is largely fed into their own distribution networks
which supply financially lucrative urban residential and industrial consumers in India's major
cities. This experience validates the Government's and the Bank Group's current strategy on
improving power sector performance in India through wider private sector participation. It is
also equally clear that a sustainable solution to the sector's problems will have to focus on
resolving the problems of the SEBs and therefore involve power distribution. Private sector
participation in power distribution is essential and has to be a key feature of any state power
sector reform program seeking Bank support. This will not be easy to implement. The concerned
state governments have authorized the existing private utilities to charge their consumers tariff
rates higher that those of the SEBs in the respective states. Extending private distribution outside
India's main cities will have to be accompanied by similar action, higher and differential tariff
rates, in line with the power supply and consumer mix of each distribution company. Recent
experience with the Noida Power Corporation (NPC), a small new private distribution utility in
Uttar Pradesh, has quickly demonstrated that a state government's requirement for NPC to adopt
UPSEB's unrealistically low tariff rates in order to maintain uniform retail tariffs in Uttar Pradesh
make profitable operations impossible without subsidies by the SEB or state government.



Annex 1.3
Page l of3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
POWER SECTOR REFORM AND COMMITMENT LENDING
1.    The actions of the Government of India, through NTPC, POWERGRID and PFC, the
opening the sector to private investment and the new state power sector restructuring program
demonstrate a clear commitment to reform. The Government's program supports policies for
effective institutional, regulatory and financial reform in line with the guidelines for Bank lending
to the power sector in the 1992 policy paper, "the World Bank's Role in the Electric Power
Sector". The following paragraphs measure the Government's reforms against those guidelines
and discuss ongoing and planned Bank support for the reforms at the center and at the state level
in that context.
2.    Transparent Regulation. India has in place, in its 1910 and 1948 Electricity Acts, a
workable regulatory framework for the sector. The Government has shown its willingness to
modify the regulatory framework, particularly to make private investment in the power sector
more attractive. CEA's involvement in regulating private power is slowly evolving towards a
more appropriate lighter regulatory review, particularly in projects awarded through competitive
procedures as against MOUs, to ensure that normative ceiling costs (rather than detailed
normative technical parameters) are not exceeded. The maximum value of projects exempted
from CEA review has already been progressively increased from Rs 250 million in 1991 first to Rs
1,000 million and in January 1996 to Rs 4,000. CEA is progressively giving up its operational
responsibilities as the regional load dispatch centers are transferred to POWERGRID and is de-
emphasizing its role in supervising project implementation, to focus on regulatory functions. CEA
has also helped set the new tariffs for NTPC and POWERGRID. GOI hesitates to reduce its
own involvement in regulatory matters better suited to be handled by an autonomous regulator, an
upgraded CEA and/or a new agency with a sharply-focused regulatory duty as compared to
CEA's broad range of responsibilities. However, it is state-level regulation that should be tackled
as a matter of highest priority.
3.    In practice the state governments do not allow the SEBs to operate with the autonomy
provided by the 1948 Act and state-level regulation is characterized by heavy state government
control and intervention and lack of transparency. There are no easy answers and experience
from other countries does not provide a one-and-only direction: solutions adopted elsewhere
range from heavy regulatory processes with independent regulatory authorities (e.g., United
States), to reliance on competition with either light incentive regulation (e.g., United Kingdom) or
mainly a threat of government regulatory intervention (e.g., Finland, New Zealand) with
operational and financial autonomy of the utilities. The proposed project addresses these issues in
the state of Orissa and sets a model for state-level regulatory framework tailored for Indian
conditions, which other reforming states are already examining for possible application, on a
state-by-state basis. The Orissa model may be eventually adopted nation wide, through a national



Annex 1.3
Page 2 of 3
amendment to the Electricity Act, but this is likely to be a time-consuming process due to the
need to reach a national consensus before such an amendment can be enacted.
4.    Commercialization and Corporatization. The centrally-owned entities in the power sector
are all incorporated under the Companies Act and already enjoy reasonable autonomy in decision
making and day-to-day operations. The main challenge is the application of the commercial
policies recently granted by the Government to the central agencies. The process of establishing
commercial contracts between the SEBs and the central utilities is cumbersome, but progress is
being made with Bank support under Ln. 3577-IN and Ln. 3632-IN. NTPC's new bulk power
purchase agreements with the SEBs are equivalent to the PPAs negotiated with private
generators. Efforts are also being made under these operations to improve NTPC's and
POWERGRID's access to domestic and international capital markets. The dialogue on the
commercialization and corporatization of the activities currently performed by SEBs continues
with GOI and several states. The Bank in its future operations under the state power sector
restructuring program will seek to support these and other states who wish to restructure their
power sectors. The proposed Project addresses these issues in the state of Orissa.
5.    With the establishment of POWERGRID, India has taken an important strategic step
towards a functioning national power grid with an increasingly competitive and coordinated
generation and transmission system. The emerging industry structure would consist of: (a)
competing central, state and private generating companies; (b) POWERGRID as the national grid
company; and (c) state and privately-owned distribution. Long-term prospects also include power
imports from Nepal. SEBs are likely for the time being to remain integrated state-level utilities,
but are expected to focus more on distribution and, with POWERGRID's assistance, on trading
and improved coordination of their system operations. Power purchases from central sector
utilities (NTPC in particular) and competitive procurement of private generation would account
for a steadily increasing share in their overall supply. Most private power projects are expected to
be focused on one state. A few large generation projects may be developed, with the assistance
of POWERGR1ID, for sale of power to several clients in different states and regions. One such
project has been proposed to be located in Orissa. The involvement of POWERGRID, beyond
transmission service, in the facilitation of such mega power projects is being supported under Ln.
3577-IN. As a result the commercial pressures on the SEBs would increase as generators (both
private and public) focus their investments and operations to serve financially viable and
commercially disciplined clients and divert supplies from non-performers; at the same time
generating companies would have to increasingly compete to sell their output to the performing
SEBs.
6.    Private Investment. India, unlike most developing countries, has a few large private
utilities which have operated successfully for decades. The Bank has been actively involved, in
close cooperation with IFC, in supporting their investment programs. The opening of the power
sector for new private developers has resulted in tremendous business development activity. IFC
supports private generation projects in Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu. Studies
supported by the Bank under the state power sector restructuring program address privatization
issues and options. The proposed project addresses private power issues in the state of Orissa
and involves the privatization of Orissa's distribution system. The Bank has also supported the
implementation of the new policy under the Second Maharashtra Power Project (Ln. 3498-IN,



Annex 1.3
Page 3 of 3
approved in June 1992) by helping Maharashtra develop its private power policy and negotiate
contracts with private developers for major power generation projects. Similar activities are
currently carried out in Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, financed by two Japan PHRD
grants and the Technical Assistance Project for Private Power Development (Ln. 3630 -IN,
approved in June 1993) to provide the central and state governments and the concerned entities
the required specialized expert services to help resolve the remaining policy, regulatory and
administrative issues and assist in project preparation.
7.    Pricing and Demand-Side Management. New two-part bulk tariffs for NTPC coal-fired
stations became effective in 1992 and POWERGRID's initial tariffs were put in place in 1993.
Further reforms in bulk power and transmission tariffs have been studied under the POWERGRID
System Development Project supported under Ln. 3577-IN. A comprehensive set of
recommendations was issued in the final report of this ADB-financed study completed in February
1994. An implementation action plan was approved by GOI in November 1994 and has been
initiated by a National Task Force, in (delayed) compliance with agreements under Ln. 3577-IN.
Its implementation will be a major challenge and will test the resolve of the Government, CEA
and POWERGRID to improving system operations. The required structural improvements
involve not only the central and private power generators and POWERGRID, but also all SEBs,
and implementation work has to proceed on a region-by-region basis.
8.    At the state level progress on tariff reform has been generally insufficient. Apart from the
need to improve cost recovery and meet financial targets, major changes are required in the
structure of the retail tariffs to contain cross-subsidies and ensure that they provide appropriate
incentives to conserve energy. Demand-Side management (DSM) is being introduced in India and
incentives for conservation are emerging with the ongoing trade liberalization, which will
introduce the required competitive pressures, and with state-by-state electricity tariff reform. The
proposed Project addresses these issues in the state of Orissa. The preparation work on similar
state power restructuring projects in Bihar, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh addresses
pricing and efficiency issues in these states.
9.    Importation of Services. As part of its liberalization program, India has opened up its
power sector to entry by foreign investors and reduced import duties on advanced technology and
mainstream equipment. The use of the Bank's standard bidding documents, initiated with
Maharashtra in 1989 and since continued with PFC, NTPC, POWERGRID and most recently in
Orissa in advance procurement under the proposed project, has encouraged competition and
exposure to foreign manufacturers, contractors and consultants. Compared to most other
developing countries, India has an abundance of educated and trained manpower and the use of
foreign consultants would mainly be required in high-technology projects (such as
POWERGRID's regional power system coordination and control investments) and preparation
and implementation of reforms under the proposed project in Orissa and elsewhere inter alia under
the state power sector restructuring program.



Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
FINANCES OF THE ORISSA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD (OSEB)
1.     Historical Performance of OSEB. A brief summary of the performance of OSEB,
GRIDCO's and OHPC's predecessor organization, for the last six years beginning FY90 and
estimates for the current year is presented in Table 1. OSEB's income statement, sources and
application of funds, and balance sheet are provided in Attachment 1.
Table 1: OSEB's Past Financial Performance (FY 90-96)
(Rs million)
Yerending MarcI~$I      FY .) .FY91           FY92       ?Y9$       FY-9 .-FY5 .
-.....  --...- -......  ..-; . . .--... ...    .  --.  --...   . .   .   . . . . . . . .   . ..  .   ..  .   .   -     .- .--... .  .-
|Uditd . aUdit-d    a-dited                    id                t     .
Sales (GWh)                         4,338      4,902      5,593      5,432      5,994      6,471      7,076
Average revenue (Rs/kWh)             0.78       0.76       0.88       1.03       1.52       1.38       1.78
Operating income                    3,805      4,175      5,489      6,186      9,597      9,500     13,218
Net income                            181        228        247        259        299        249        285
Subsidydue(Rsmillion)                 260        121        849      1,110      2,260      1,610      3,272
Subsidy paid (Rs million)               0        260          0        452        538      2,389      2,832
Subsidy due/Revenue (%)               9.0        3.6       23.3       26.5       39.4       22.2       36.7
Ratios:
Rate of return (ES Act)                3.5        3.4       2.9        2.9        2.9        2.9        3.0
Rate of return (before interest)      19.7       17.6      15.4       15.6       13.7       16.5       15.3
Level of self financing - %            23       neg.          6         12         34         62         29
Debt service coverage                  0.9        1.0       0.9        1.2        1.3        1.1        1.0
Accounts receivable (days)            161        186        167        160         93         93         76
Current ratio                          0.7       0.7        0.8        0.7        0.9        1.0        1.3
* Average revenue includes subsidy from GOO. In FY94 000 paid large amount of subsidy (Rs 2,260 million) to enable OSEB to make
provision for uncollectible receivables (equivalent to about 19% of revenue), and for prior period accounting adjustment arising due to GOO's
decision to charge higher price for power sales to OSEB from OO owned hydro stations.
2.      The last six years have witnessed a steady deterioration in the financial performance of
OSEB. In spite of an annual average growth of about 19% in sales revenue OSEB has not been
able to earn the statutory rate of return of 3% (after interest) on net fixed assets without subsidy
from GOO, because of its very low level of tariffs. There was no increase in tariffs from FY90 to
FY92 resulting in its inability to recover its costs. OSEB started a program to remedy this
situation four years back and has increased its tariffs by almost 67% over this period, including



Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 2
recent revision of 17% in November, 95. The level of subsidy as a percentage of revenue
increased from about 9% in FY90 to about 22% in FY95. In FY94 OSEB was able to cover its
cash operating expenses but had a small short-fall ( Rs 76 million) in meeting its debt service
requirements to non-government lenders. It improved its performance in FY95 and was able to
cover, without subsidy, its operating expenses and debt service obligations to its lenders including
the state government. Since last three years OSEB has been focusing on cleaning up its balance
sheet by making large provisions against uncollectibles accumulated over past many years. In
FY94 and FY95, subsidy was required to enable OSEB to make a large provision for
uncollectible receivables accumulated from previous years and for prior period adjustments.
Again in FY96 it is estimated that OSEB will require subsidy of Rs 3272 million because of
provision for uncollectible receivables ( Rs 1308 million); increases in rates of depreciation by
GOI effective April 94 which resulted in additional depreciation costs that could not be
immediately recovered through tariffs; increase in power purchase costs as OSEB plans to
purchase about 1000 GWh from OPGC at Rs 1.48/kWh compared to its average purchase price
of Rs 0.70/kWh; and delay in tariff revision. Another contributory factor to OSEB's weak
financial position is its high level of debt. GOO has traditionally provided funds to OSEB only in
the form of long-term loans. This has created a heavy debt service burden for OSEB as is evident
from its low debt service coverage of less than 1.0 up to FY93. Since then, its debt service cover
has improved, somewhat, but it is still not adequate.
3.    OSEB's billing and collection has also been unsatisfactory. Lack of appropriate internal
controls have adversely affected revenues. Poor accounting for sales revenues, defective and non-
functioning meters, and lack of reconciliation between financial accounts and unmetered supply to
large number of consumers obscures transmission and distribution losses. In order to understate
losses, OSEB has tended to overstate sales to some categories of consumers. Based on sample
field studies, analysis of billing data, and tariff structure, Orissa's Consultants have estimated
losses for FY96 to be about 43% compared to 24% reported by OSEB. Consequently actual
average tariff for FY 97 (before planned revision of July 1996) is estimated at Rs. 1.83/kWh
(Attachment 3). Its weak collection performance resulted in non-compliance under Cr. 1356-IN,
due to receivables exceeding the maximum level, of three months electricity sales, agreed with the
Bank. As a consequence of its poor billing and inability to collect, OSEB has not been able to
meet its obligations to its suppliers for purchase of power, fuel, and capital goods.
4.    Valuation and Transfer of Assets. Under Orissa's power sector reform program, the
power facilities previously owned by OSEB and GOO are being transferred to GRIDCO and
OHPC. Attachment 2 shows how the assets and liabilities have been split between the new
owners. GRIDCO is not only taking over all the transmission and distribution assets but also the
unpaid electricity and other receivables together with the related provision for bad and doubtful
debts. GOO has also agreed to revalue the fixed assets before transferring these to the new
companies. This is a path-breaking decision since it is the first occasion where an SEB has been
permitted to revalue its fixed assets. This will enable GOO to realize a more realistic value for its
past investments at the time of privatization. It will also help the sector, to provide more self-
financing for new investments, due to the higher depreciation which the new owners can recover
on the revalued fixed assets. This also helps eliminate GRIDCO's and OHPC's dependence on
budgetary support from the GOO. The impact of the revaluation of fixed assets on OHPC's and
GRIDCO's tariffs is discussed in Annexes 2.4-2.5.



Ann.c 2.1
AftachmaWe1
P1o
Pug. I of 3
INDUA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURfN
ORISSA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
INCOME STATEMENT
(Re. MilIon)
FY ending March 31                                   FY 30       FY 91       FY  2      FY 93        FY 94        FY f          FY 3
Actual  Actuel  Actl   Actui   Acul    AcI                               Esdnu
Generation Capacity (MW)                                 1,530       1,568       1,568      1,698        1,388          1,388        1,388
Energy Generated (GWh)                                   4,672       5.526      6,051       5,163        4,196         4.245         3.118
Auxiliaries consumption (GWh)                              169        171         161         149          138           115            60
Electricity Purchases (GWh)                              1,202       1,089       1,442      2.086        3,768         4,363         6265
Energy available for sale (GWh)                          5,705       6,444      7,332       7,100        7.826         8,494         9,323
T&D Losses (%)                                              24         24          24          24          23             24            24
T&D Losses (GWh)                                         1.367       1,542       1,739      1,668        1,832         2,022         2,248
Electncity Sales (GWh)                                   4,338       4,902      5,593       5,432        5,994         6,471         7,076
Operating Revenues:
Revenue from Sale of Electncity                        2,897       3,362      3.642       4,195        5.733         7,250         8,927
Electricity Duty                                        406         445         587         564         484            598           654
Revenue Subsdies                                        260         121         849       1,110        2,260         1,610         3,272
Other income                                             137        247         214         227         305            335           365
Prior period income                                      105          0         197          90         814           -293            0
Total Operating Revenues                               3,805       4,175      5,489       6,186        9,597         9,500        13,218
Operating Expenses:
Generation of Electncity (Fuel)                          345         344         330        474          486           488            75
Cost of Electricity Purchase                            562         511         759       1,340        2,478         3,061         6,679
Operation and Maintenance:
Repairs and Maintenance                               226         324         375        435          457            482          418
Employee costs                                        805         887         992       1,300        1,491         1,785         1,946
Administrative and General Expenses                    42          46          52         114         144            149           162
Provision for Bad & Doubtful Debts                       18           2         343         172        1,189           696         1,308
Other Expenses                                            15        115         100          71          89              8             8
Electncity Duty payable                                 406         445         587         564         484            598          654
Prior period expenses                                    96           0         294           0        1,106           534            0
Depreciation                                            275         327         355         516         525            571          814
Total Operating expenses                               2,790       3,001      4,187       4,986        8,449         8,372        12,064
Less Expenses capitalized                                 0           0           0         188         262            303          300
Operating Income before Interest
Interest Chargeable to Revenue                            834         946       1,055       1,129        1,111         1,181         1.169
Profit before Tax                                          181        228         247         259         299            249           285
Less Provision for Tax                                      0           0           0           0           0              0             0
Net Incomne                                               181         228         247        259          299            249          285
Dividend                                                    0           0           0           0           0              0             0
Transfer to Reserves                                       181        228         247         259         299            249           285
Average Tariff (Ps/kWh)                                    66          68          65          77          95            112           126
Average revenue (Ps/kWh)                                    78         76          88         103         152            138           178
Average cost of supply (Ps /kWh)                           74          71          83          99         147            134           174
% Annual Increase in Tanffs                                 9           3          -5          19          23             18            13
Operating Ratio (%)                                        73          72          76          78          85             85            89
Return on Net FLxed Assets (%)
After Interest                                        3.5         3.4         2.9        2.9          2.9            2.9          3.0
Before Interest                                      19.7        17.6        15.4       15.6         13.7          16.5          15.3



Annex 2.1
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
ORISSA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(Rs. million)
FY ending March 31                                  FY 90      FY 91       FY 92       FY 93        FY 94           FY 95         FY 96
Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual            Actual          Actual    EstImats
Sources of Funds
Funds from internal sources                          1,312       1,507      2,004       1,895          3,087           2,741       2,872
Equity                                                   0          0           0           0              0               0           0
Capital Receipts                                        59         74         122          59            101             393          50
Otherreservehinds                                       30        133          71         144             93             312         192
Borrowings
State Government                                   1,179       1,318         85         857            101             153        -912
IBRD                                                   0          0           0           0              0               0           0
PFC/ADBIODA                                            0          0           0           0              0             958        750
Others                                              996         918         935        619             734             557       1,083
TotW Borowings                                     2,175       2,236      1,020       1,476            835           1,668        921
Interest on Loans not paid                             325        126         454         216             65             165           8
Less RE Subsidy not received                           260        -139        849         658           1,722           -779        441
Total Sources                                          3,641       4,215      2,822       3,132          2,438           6,054       3,602
Applicaton of Funds
Investment
CapiW Investment                                   1,999      2,189       1,046       1,336         -1.319           1,343       -320
lnterest & Expenses capitirzed                        0           0           0         188            262            303         300
Totai Investment                                   1,999       2,189      1,046       1,524         -1,057           1,646        -20
Debt Service
Amortbation of loans and bonds                      675         490         767        501           2,419            685        1.166
Interestcharged to operations                       834         946       1,055       1,129          1,111           1,181       1.169
Payment of Interest due in previous years             0          49           0           0            859               3        504
ToW Debt Service                                   1,509       1,485       1,822       1,630          4,389           1,869      2.839
Increase in Working Capite                             133        541         -46         -22            894           2,539        783
Total ApplicaUons                                      3,641       4,215      2,822       3,132          2,438           6,054       3,602
Self Financing Ratio (%)                                  23        -25           6          12             34              62          29
DebtServiceCoverageRatio                                 0.9         1.0         0.9        1.2             1.3            1.1         1.0



Annex 2.1
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
ORISSA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
BALANCE SHEET
(Rs. million)
FY ending March 31                            FY 90       FY 91      FY 92       FY 93       FY 94       FY 95   FY 96
Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual  Estimates
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Block                                   9,655     11,872      12,757     14,500       13,375     15,071      14,811
Less: Depreciation                            2,224      2,555       2,914      3,249       3,717       4,339       4,449
Net Fixed Assets                              7,431      9,317       9,843     11,251       9,659      10,732      10,382
Capital Works in Progress                       1,168      1,140       1,301      1,082        1,150      1,100       1,340
TotalFixedAssets                                8,599     10,457      11,144     12,333       10,809     11,832      11,702
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                         343         296        202         271         222         502         351
Inventory                                      410         559        623         664         636         847         686
Receivables                                   1,277      1,709       1,665      1,843        1,464      1,848       1,860
RE Subsidy receivable                          260         121        970       1,628       3,350       2,571       3,012
Other Receivables                               224        400        306         292         856        1,011      1,112
Total Current Assets                            2,514      3,085       3,766      4,698       6,528       6,778       7,021
TOTAL ASSETS                                     11,113     13,542      14,910     17,031      17,337      18,611      18,723
LIABILITIES
Net Worth
Share Capital
Retained earnings                            -1,300     -1,072        -825       -566        -267         -14        270
Capital Receipts                              1,002      1,076       1,198      1,257        1,358      1,751       1,801
Other reserves                                 275         408        479         623         716       1,028       1,220
Total Net Worth                                  -23         412        852       1,315        1,809      2,764       3,290
Long Term Debt
State Government                              3,306      4,624       4,561      3,424       3,422       3,505       2,593
IBRD                                             0           0          0           0           0           0           0
PFCIADB/ODA                                      0           0          0           0        -101         497       1,853
Others                                        4,148      4,299       4,881      5,075       5,328       5,149       5,626
Total Long Term Debt                            7,454      8,923       9,442      8,499       8,649       9,151      10,072
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                              2,275      2,401       2,659      3,068       5,236       4,368       4,675
Deposits from consumers                        145         173        198         228         281         384         404
Working Capital Borrowings                      106        123         61          88          57           0           0
Accumulated interest payable                   666         743       1,197      1,413         619         780         284
Current Maturities of Debt                     490         767        501       2,419         685       1,166           0
Total Current Liabilities                       3,682      4,207       4,616      7,215       6,877       6,699       5,364
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                11,113     13,542      14,910     17,031      17,337      18,611      18,723
Current Ratio                                       0.7        0.7         0.8        0.7         0.9         1.0         1.3
Accounts Receivables (number of days)               161        186        167         160          93          93          76
Accounts Payables (number of days)                 402         333        305         257         333         198         161



Annex 2.1
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
TRANSFER OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
(IB.Mi in
FROM            - TO -v
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31, 1996                             OSEB    GRIDCO                 OHPC  ADD 300    TOTAL
TO OHPC   OHPC
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                                                13,758         11,032           2,726          1,994        4,720
Interest & Expenses Capitalized                                    1,053            975             78              0           78
Less Accumulated depreciabon                                       4,449          3,630            819            413         1,232
Net Fixed Assets                                                  10,362          8,378           1,985          1,581        3,568
Cap. Exp.. in progress                                             1,340           1,340              0              0           0
Total Fixed Assets                                                11,702          9,718           1,985          1,581        3,566
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Bank Balances                                               351            308             44               0          44
Total stocks                                                         686            656             30               0          30
Receivables for Sale of Electricity                                5,857          5,857              0              0            0
Provision for Bad & Doubtful debts                                 3,997          3,997              0              0            0
Net Receivables                                                    1,860          1,860              0              0            0
RE Subsidy receivable                                              3,012          3,012              0              0            0
Other Receivables                                                  1,115          1,115              0              0            0
Total Current Assets                                               7,021          6,951             74              0           74
TOTAL ASSETS                                                      18,726         16,669          2,058           1,581       3,639
NET WORTH
Equity                                                                 0              0              0              0            0
Consumees contribubons                                             1,323          1,323              0              0            0
Retained Eaming (LossesyReserves                                     270            270              0              0            0
Restructuring Account                                                  0            740           -740              0         -740
Grants                                                               478            478              0              0            0
Total Net Worth                                                    2,071          2,811           -740              0         -740
STAFF SUPERANNUATION FUND (GPF)                                    1,047            898            150             50          200
OTHER RESERVE FUNDS                                                  173            173              0              0            0
LONG TERM DEBTS
State Government loans                                             2,593            732           1,861          1,531       3,392
PFC loans                                                          1,853          1,182            671              0          671
Other loans                                                        5,626          5,530             96              0           96
Total Long Term Loans                                             10,072          7,444           2,628          1,531       4,159
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                                   4,675          4,655             20              0           20
Current Maturity of Debt                                               0              0              0              0            0
Deposits trom Consumers                                             404             404              0              0            0
Accrued Interest on non-Govt. Loans                                  284            284              0              0            0
Borrowings for Working Capital                                         0              0              0              0            0
Total Current Liabilifies                                          5,364          5,344             20              0           20
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                 18,727         16,669          2,0581         1,581        3,



Annex 2.1
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OPENING BALANCE SHEET FOR OHPC AND GRIDCO
Opening Balance Sheet FY 97                              From OSEB To GRIDCO   From OSEB To OHPC
& GOO
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                                               11,032         11,032          4,720       4,798
Revaluation of Assets                                                           11,200                      8,402
Interest & Expenses Capitalized                                    975            975             78            0
Less Accumulated depreciation                                     3,630          3,630          1,232       1,232
Net Fixed Assets                                                  8,378         19,578          3,566      11,988
Cap. Exp.. in progress                                            1,340          1,340             0            0
Total Fixed Assets                                                9,718         20,918          3,566      11,968
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Bank Balances                                             308             308            44           44
Total stocks                                                       656             150            30           30
Receivables for Sale of Electricity                               5,857          1,468             0            0
Provision for Bad & Doubtful debts                                3,997              0             0            0
Net Receivables                                                   1,860          1,468             0            0
RE Subsidy receivable                                             3,012             0              0            0
Other Receivables                                                 1,115          1,115             0            0
Total Current Assets                                              6,951          3,041            74           74
TOTAL ASSETS                                                     16,669         23,958          3,639      12,042
NET WORTH
Equity                                                               0           3,262             0        3,000
Consumers conbibutions                                            1,323          1,323             0            0
Retained Eaming (LossesyReserves                                   270            270              0            0
Restructuring Account                                              740              0           -740            0
Grants                                                             478            478              0            0
Total Net Worth                                                   2,811          5,333          -740        3,000
STAFF SUPERANNUATION FUND (GPF)                                    898            898            200          200
OTHER RESERVE FUNDS                                                173             173             0            0
LONG TERM DEBTS
State Government loans                                             732              0          3,392          392
PFC loans                                                         1,182          1,012           671          671
Other loans                                                       5,530          4,977            96           86
Partially Convertible bond issued to GOO                                         4,000                      7,663
Partially Convertible bond issued to Pension Trust                               1,500
Total Long Term Loans                                             7,444         11,489         4,159        8,813
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                                  4,655          4,655            20           20
Current Maturity of Debt                                             0            723              0           10
Deposits from Consumers                                            404            404              0            0
Accrued Interest on non-Govt. Loans                                284            284              0            0
Borowings for Working Capital                                        0              0              0            0
Total Current Liabilities                                         5,344          6,067            20           30
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                16,669         23,958          3,639      12,042



Annex 2.1
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TRANSFER OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1.    Transfer of Assets: Through operation of law, GOO took over all transmission and
distribution assets, and hydro stations of OSEB at historical depreciated cost of Rs 10,362
million. It then transferred transmnission and distribution assets to GRIDCO at depreciated
replacement value of Rs 19,578 million (historical cost Rs 8,378 million). Hydro assets acquired
from OSEB ( historical cost Rs 1,985 million) and GOO's own hydro generation assets (Rs 1,581
million), have been transferred to OHPC at depreciated replacement value of Rs 11,968 million
(historical Rs 3,566 million).
2.    Capital work in progress: Valued at Rs 1,340 million, the capital work-in-progress has
been transferred to GRIDCO. Orissa Government has transferred Upper Indravati Project to
OHPC as work-in-progress at a value of Rs. 6,443 million.
3.    Long term loans: OSEB's hydro assets were financed through perpetual loans of Rs
1,861 million and Rs 767 million from other lenders ( including PFC) which have been transferred
to OHPC. GOO owned hydro stations were constructed at a cost of Rs 1,994 million against
which GOO transferred to OHPC loan liabilities of Rs 1,531 million and Rs 50 million of liability
on account of staff superannuation fund. Of the total Rs 3,392 million GOO loans, Rs 3,000
million were then converted as equity to OHPC and Rs 392 million as GOO loans of 15 years
maturity with 5 years grace period and 9.75% per annum rate of interest. Against transmission
and distribution assets GOO has transferred to GRIDCO loans taken from PFC (Rs 1,182
million); other lenders (Rs 5,530 million); and converted Rs 732 million of its own outstanding
loans into share capital.
4.    Current Assets: Stocks of Rs 30 million and Cash of Rs 44 million was transferred to
OHPC. All other current assets were transferred to GRIDCO. Against receivables of Rs 5,857
million provision of Rs 3,997 million was made by OSEB for uncollectible receivables. Out of
net receivables of Rs 1,860 million taken over by GOO it has set off arrears due form GOO
departments and undertakings against value of assets and transferred receivables to GRIDCO at a
net value of Rs 1,468 million. It is estimated that out of distribution maintenance stocks of Rs
656 mnillion, only stocks worth about Rs 150 million are usable and are therefore transferred to
GRIDCO at that value.
5.    Other Capital and Current Liabilities: Accounts payable to suppliers of Rs 20 million and
Employee terminal benefits of Rs 200 million are transferred to OHPC. All other capital and
current liabilities are transferred to GRIDCO.



nne 2.1
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
6.    Adjustment of revaluation amount: Revaluation of fixed assets for two companies is
adjusted as follows
(Rs million)
GRIDCO:   Revaluation of fixed assets                      11,200
add adjustment of restructuring account         740
less reduction in value of maintenance stocks  (506)
less write off of receivables                 (392)
less subsidy due from GOO                    (3.012)
Net increase in value of assets                8,030
Issue of share capital to GOO                  2,530
Partly convertible bond issued to GOO          4,000
Partially convertible bond issued to Employee Trust  1.500
Net increase in liabilities                    5,030
OHPC:       Revaluation of fixed assets                     8,402
less adjustment of restructuring account     (740)
Net increase in value of assets               7,662
Partially convertible bond issued to GOO      7,662



Annex 2.1
Attachment 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOSSES, SALES AND AVERAGE TARIFFS
As per OSEB Accounts        Revised lstiates of Orisas           i
Consultuau 
FY96                    FY96                  Y97
Energy available for sale within state(GWh)                    9323               9323                        9679
Losses:
Technical losses (%)                                                             20.9                       21.
Non-Technical losses (%)                                                         22.2                       13.5
Total Losses (%)                                             24.1                43.1                       39.5
Energy sales (GWh):
Domestic                                                     2250                1044                       1197
Commercial                                                    340                 280                        354
Industrial - HT                                              2506               2949                        31%
Industrial - LT                                               762                 257                        325
Agricultural                                                  474                 169                        195
Bulk Supply                                                   349                 319                        351
Public Institutions                                             0                   0                          0
RJy Traction                                                  186                 176                        178
Public Lighting                                                40                  24                         28
Public Waterworks                                             170                  83                        100
Total Energy Sales                                           7075               5301                        5924
verage tariffs (Ps/kWh):
Domestic                                                       42                  91                         93
Commercial                                                    159                 192                        213
Industrial - HT                                               235                 199                        221
Industrial - LT                                                48                 142                        155
Agricultural                                                   18                  50                         50
Bulk Supply                                                   143                 156                        172
Public Institutions                                             0                   0                          0
Rly Traction                                                  228                240                         287
Public Lighting                                                73                 120                        131
Public Waterworks                                              75                 154                        168
Average Tariff                                                126                 168                        183
Revenue from Sale of Electrkity (Rs. Million)
Within state                                                8,891               8,891                     10,854
Interstate                                                      0                   0                          0
Total                                                       8,891               8,891                     10,854
1/ Explanatory Notes:
a) Because of lack of meters/defective or non-functioning meters, consumers are charged on a flat rate basis. In
absence of energy accounting, OSEB has tended to understate losses and overstate sales to certain category of
consumers. Based on sample field studies, and analysis of billing data and tariff structure the consultants have
prepared the estimates of sales and losses.
b) Average estimated tariff for FY 97, used in the analysis above, does not include proposed tariff increase of 16%.
This tariffs have been computed based on the estimated average tariffs in FY 95 and FY 96 after adjusting these
tariffs to reflect full years impact of tariff increases in July 1993 (15%), July 1994 (15%) and
November 1995 (17%).



Annex 2.2
Page I of 10
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT OF ORISSA
April 4, 1996
Mr. Heinz Vergin
Director
South Asia Country Department II
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Vergin:
RE: Power Sector Policy of the Government of Orissa
I have much pleasure in furnishing the following statement of the Power Sector Reform
Development Policy of the Government of Orissa (referred to as the Government in this
statement). This statement has been prepared in response to a request by the World Bank for the
Government of Orissa to reconfirm its power sector reform policies at the time of negotiations of
a proposed loan for the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project.
Since 1992, the Government and the Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB) have been
taking measures to improve OSEB's operational and financial performance to enable Orissa to
attract private investment for power development. At about the same time, we began discussions
with the Bank which in November 1993 led to an agreement for the Government to implement a
comprehensive power sector reform program in order to secure the required investments. In
November 1993, the Chief Minister of Orissa confirmed the Government's commitment to power
sector reform and sought the Bank's assistance to help implement our planned reforms. The
reform program was reviewed and approved by the Council of Ministers in April 1994.
Significant progress has been achieved in implementation of the reform program. The
Government has since sought assistance of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the UK's
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) as well, and we acknowledge the support of the
Bank in securing such assistance.
Power Sector Reform Program
As a pioneer among the states in India, the Government has embarked on a radical
program of reform, to address the fundamental issues underlying poor performance. We have
decided to restructure the state power sector and substantially privatize the power sector in
Orissa, to make power supply more efficient and to be able to meet the investment needs of the
sector. The Government's ultimate objective is to provide an appropriate policy environment for



Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 10
growth of the power sector and withdraw from it as an operator of utilities, having instead
privately-managed utilities operating where feasible in a competitive environment under an
appropriately-regulated power market. Power sector industry and market structures being
established under the reform program have been defined so as to facilitate the realization of this
ultimate objective. Significant private sector participation is to be achieved during the
implementation of the proposed Bank loan which we are seeking, to support our power sector
reform program.
Reform Program Description
The key principles of the Government's power sector reform program comprise the
following:
(a)   Restructuring of the former OSEB by corporatization and commercialization
- unbundling and structural separation of generation, transmission and distribution
into separate corporations;
(b)   Privatization - through private sector participation in the hydro generation and
grid corporation and privatization of thermal generation and distribution;
(c)   Competition - competitive bidding for new generation;
(d)   Separate Regulation - development of a power sector regulatory commission;
and
(e)   Tariffs - related electricity tariff reforms at bulk power, transmission and retail
levels.
Our policy is to separate generation, transmission and distribution and create an
independent regulatory commission; to promote competition, efficiency and transparency, and to
attract private capital for power sector development in Orissa. At the completion of the
restructuring program, a substantial private sector involvement in the sector would be
accomplished, including complete privatization of our power distribution system. Shares of some
of the new corporations would be offered also to the public, including employees, institutional
investors, and the general public through the stock market. The above key principles are more
fully described in the next paragraphs.
Restructuring of the former OSEB by Corporatization and Commercialization
The Government has consolidated hydro projects and stations of GOO's Department of
Energy (DOE) and OSEB into the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC). Each station will
operate a profit center.
We have also established the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) for transmission and
grid operations, including plant dispatch in Orissa and coordination with the Eastern Region



Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 10
Electricity Board and the Power Grid Corporation of India (POWERGRID) and the management
and privatization of new power distribution corporations. GRIDCO will also initially perform a
central power procurement function on behalf of the distribution companies.
While OHPC and GRIDCO may remain initially mainly under the Government ownership,
they will have from the beginning non-government directors (such as power, finance and industry
professionals) on their Board of Directors.
GRIDCO and OHPC will have their own cadre of staff. The Government has issued after
the due consultation with the staff, orders for transfer of its staff on deputation to GRIDCO and
OHPC. The transfer of personnel to GRIDCO and OHPC will be completed before March 31,
1997 for which the companies are preparing their personnel policies, to be finalized by December
31, 1996 and implemented by March 31, 1997. The draft five-year transition plan for the
rationalization of staff has been prepared and after consultation with the staff will be finalized by
December 31, 1996 based on an ongoing review of the age and skills profile of existing staff A
set of proposals for reducing staff to reasonable levels will be drawn up and will include estimates
of reduction in staff through attrition, voluntary retirements, retraining and transfers to other
Government bodies. Voluntary retirements/redundancies and costs including pension entitlements
will be estimated and financing set aside. We will discuss and agree the plan with the workers
before it is implemented. Retrenchment of staff will be implemented with legal and social
responsibility to the rights and dignity of affected staff, reasonable compensation will be paid to
those staff affected. Compensation payments and pension entitlements will be financed by each of
the companies, through tariffs and/or Government contributions. We also reiterate that the power
sector in Orissa is poised for rapid expansion. Therefore the seemingly redundant staff may get
adequate scope for being absorbed.
Privatization
We are committed to limiting public sector investment in generation development to
possible minority share-holdings in thermal project companies (if considered desirable to lower the
perceived risk and facilitate the transaction). The majority of funding for new generation
including OHPC's new projects should come from private sources. The possibility of further
investment in Orissa by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), is of course not
precluded.
OHPC's shares will be offered to the public as soon as a track record required for
successful listing has been achieved, not later than March 31, 2000 according to our current
expectations. The bulk of the Government's power investments are in hydro power, and even a
minority disinvestment will enable the Government to release substantial amounts for its other
high priority development needs.
Negotiations to establish a privately managed distribution company are underway and we
expect to complete the first privatization under a management contract in mid-1 996. (We decided
not to attempt long-term privatization of the first company before the Regulator has become fully
operational and detailed information about the distribution systems to be privatized has become



Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 10
available.) It is anticipated that this management contract will converted into a long-term lease in
about three years. The planned three additional distribution companies will be privatized by
GRIDCO in stages under the reform program, by the end of year 2000 at the latest though we
intend to complete the distribution privatization program earlier.
GRIDCO itself will, initially, be owned by the Government with possibility of some later
private equity participation preferably of a grid company and/or a utility with strong experience in
transmission, grid operations and power pooling. Public listing of GRIDCO's shares is scheduled
by March 31, 2001. To ensure that GRIDCO's suppliers/buyers of power can not influence the
policies, operations and business decisions of GRIDCO in their favor, no single
generator/distributor, its associates and related companies, subsidiaries etc. shall be allowed to
hold individually and collectively a controlling stake in GRIDCO's equity.
The reform program includes the divestment of a part of GOO's stake in OHPC and
GRIDCO. It is in the interest of OHPC and GRIDCO to establish track record and get
themselves listed on the stock market before significant divestment takes place. However it may
not be possible to do so before four years to five years as stated above. To initiate the process
early on, and to motivate the employees who are important stake-holders in the survival and
growth of their company, GOO considers it desirable to invite the employees of OHPC and
GRIDCO to participate in the equity of the company. GOO desires to divest about 10 percent of
its equity in OHPC and GRIDCO to the employees. In the absence of opportunities to sell the
stocks, the employees may, however, not be ready to invest till the stocks are listed on the stock
exchange. Since the Companies Act prohibits a company from buying its own shares (except for
reducing its capital) we intend to establish a self-liquidating short-term "trust" which shall buy and
sell shares of OHPC and GRIDCO, only to the employees, for the interim period before these
companies get their shares listed on the stock exchange.
Competition
Thermal generation will be developed through separate companies by the private sector.
We also plan to select sponsors through competitive bidding managed by GRIDCO, which will be
required to carefully establish the need for such capacity and then procure it with efficiency and
economy as its mandate. We also plan to seek proposals for hydro projects on the basis of
competitive procurement, subject to the need for such additional capacity and demonstration that
competitive procurement of a selected hydro. is feasible. We expect OHPC, however, to take the
lead in implementing hydro components of multipurpose hydro and irrigation, possible flood
control projects such as the ongoing Upper Indravati Project. Finally, we will pursue competition
in distribution privatization, and, to the extent possible, full-scale bidding for the remaining three
distribution areas.
Separate Regulation
An independent regulatory agency, the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission is being
established. The Regulatory Commission will be autonomous as provided for under the law and
will ensure the operational, managerial and financial autonomy of the new utilities and companies



Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 10
in Orissa's power sector. Enabling legislation, the Orissa Electricity Reform Act, has been
enacted with assent of the President of India and became effective from April 1, 1996.
The Regulatory Commission would consist of a Chairman and two additional members.
The commissioners' qualifications and appointment procedures and the conditions of appointment
are specified in the legislation to ensure the selection of qualified persons. The Government is
committed to allowing the new Regulatory Commission to operate with the level of autonomy
and independence provided for in the legislation. The cost of regulation will be met by the
Government.
Under the new law the Regulatory Commission has the authority to issue licenses to
GRIDCO and the future private distribution companies. Drafts of such licenses have been
prepared. The Regulator would regulate the licensees in the performance of their statutory and
license obligations. This would inter alia include: (a) the setting of retail tariffs of distribution
companies and bulk supply and transmission tariffs of GRIDCO; (b) related performance
standards in the supply of electricity, (c) performance standards in the promotion of efficient use
of electricity by consumers to be achieved by the licensees; and (d) settlement of certain disputes
between licensees and consumers. The legislation authorizes Regulatory Commission to vary the
principles to be used in regulating licensee's charges from those contained in the Sixth Schedule
of the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948, most importantly the pass through of costs irrespective of
performance would not be automatic and their rate of return would not be guaranteed, but be
made conditional on performance. The Regulatory Commission need not issue licenses to
generators or directly regulate the tariffs or quality of service of generating companies operating
in Orissa. This would be accomplished through GRIDCO, which in its license would have an
obligation to contract generation with efficiency and economy and GRIDCO would not be
automatically able to pass on costs under unreasonable power purchase agreements (PPAs).
Regulatory functions will be conducted, with transparency and fairness, and with the
participation.of stakeholders and feedback mechanisms with power suppliers providing
informnation to the Regulator on their performance and costs. The Regulator is to ensure that:
(a)   utilities operating within agreed efficiency parameters earn a commercial rate of
return on the shareholders equity and are able to raise a reasonable share of their
financing requirements for future investment through internal cash generation after
meeting income tax and dividend requirements; and
(b)   the rights of all categories of consumers are protected, e.g., with respect to the
cost, efficiency and quality of service.
Tariffs, Load Management and Electricity Conservation
The Regulator will continue to implement progressive retail tariff adjustments initiated by
the Government with successive adjustments since 1992, in addition to passing through of fuel
and purchase power costs, so as to ensure reasonable rates of return and self-financing, and
improving the time-of-day tariffs to be introduced in the next tariff adjustment for large industrial



Annex 2.2
Page 6 of 10
consumers. The principles to be followed will reflect market-based tariffs based on competitive
procurement of generation and cost-based efficiency-incentives linked to tariffs for transmission
and distribution.
Bulk power purchases will be based on power purchase agreements to be signed with each
of the OHPC power plants, NTPC, OPGC and the independent power producers. Power sales by
OHIPC plants will be cost-based and linked to availability and provide incentives to OHPC for
providing availability at system peak. These costs including the costs of fuel will be automatically
passed on to consumers in the retail rates. GRIDCO's costs and those of the distribution
companies will be regulated and only costs allowed by the Regulator will be included in retail
rates charged to customers. When separate distribution companies are established, a separate
transmission tariff will be developed which will be added to the overall costs of power purchased.
This may over time lead to different retail tariffs for each distribution profit center of GRIDCO
and subsequently for each private distribution utility.
Cross subsidies may have to continue to be provided for in the retail tariff structure in the
near term, but they would be contained and limited to the truly needy. The Government will not
abandon its responsibility to protect the interests of small rural consumers and rural poor and
expects the Regulatory Commission to provide life-line rates in rural areas, while maintaining the
viability and commercial focus of all distributors. Agricultural electricity tariffs will be reviewed
by the Regulatory Commission and are expected to be revised gradually, taking into account
financial needs of utilities and economic conditions of small and marginal farmers. Lack of meters
and absence of any reasonable estimate of T&D losses obfuscates the issue of subsidy, which
appears to be exaggerated since non-technical losses cannot be distinguished from unmetered
sales. Installation of meters would help in reflecting sales and losses accurately; in reducing the
losses; and in better targeting the subsidy to deserving consumers. Explicit subsidies, financed by
the Government, would be made for well-defined target groups to balance the Government's
social objectives and distributors' financial and commercial requirements. We expect, however,
the need for such subsidies to be minimal. The Regulatory Commission is expected to continue to
allow full cost recovery by the utilities, as the Government has authorized in the recent tariff
adjustments.
Electricity demand-side management policies are being articulated, with initial focus on
pricing, metering, collection and disconnection. These ongoing measures will be accompanied by
a program of load management/electricity conservation measures promoted by GRIDCO under
the reform program. Our longer term programs to promote load management and conservation
will be determined based on the results of this pilot program and we trust Bank support will be
forthcoming for their implementation even if the bulk of power sector financing is to come from
private sources and capital markets.
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
The overall environmental impact of the reform program is expected to be significantly
positive. Efficient and economic electricity tariffs and improved metering, billing and collection
will promote electricity conservation. Electric power projects in Orissa will continue to be



Annex 2.2
Page 7 flO
implemented in accordance with applicable state and national environmental standards,
resettlement and rehabilitation and tribal development policies. Orissa's existing thermal
generation will be renovated and new capacity constructed and operated by private companies in
accordance with modem practices and applicable national environmental standards. Transmission
and distribution rehabilitation and load management/electricity conservation measures will
significantly reduce system losses, reduce the need for generation expansion and thereby also
contribute to containing environmental emissions; no environmental issues are envisaged. The
distribution rehabilitation program will also cover the appropriate handling of outdated
transformers and other potentially environmentally harmful replaced materials, if any are
discovered in the rehabilitation process.
Program Benefits
The reform program will enable Orissa to establish and develop a viable power industry,
capable of meeting Orissa's electricity needs and applicable environmental standards. The new
utilities will improve the efficiency of power supply in Orissa and close the chronic power
demand/supply gap to the benefit of all electricity consumers. Visible progress in system
improvement with Bank support under the new loan will strengthen credibility and help gain
public acceptance and support for the reform program. The program will promote fiscal
adjustment as it enables the Government to cut its power subsidies and reduce public spending in
the power sector. Finally, we are proud to state, the program is already providing a model for
state power sector reform in India. Several other states are contemplating similar reform efforts
for their power utilities and are in close touch and following the progress of our reform efforts.
The Government's electricity pricing policy for the reform program, to be implemented by
the Regulatory Commission, will continue to emphasize cost recovery. Significant adjustments
have already been implemented by the Government. As noted above, the policy will, however,
continue to provide for low-cost (life-line) rates for poor consumers in line with their limited
capability to pay for their electricity consumption, to ensure affordable service for basic household
and small and marginal farmers' agricultural uses of electricity.
Along with life-line tariff rates, the reform program will facilitate poverty alleviation in
two indirect, yet significant ways. First, the program will free up the Government funding (capital
investment and the Government subsidies) from the power sector to social sectors. The flow of
funds from the power sector to the Government will exceed the Government's inputs from FY97
onwards. Second, and even more important, the program will help the Government eliminate one
of the most serious constraints to higher economic growth in Orissa, by closing the gap between
power supply and demand and improving the quality and reliability of supply to satisfactory levels
for further industrial and other economic activities.
Progress of Reform Program Implementation
The implementation of the reform program has started and our progress has been
commended by most observers including the Bank. The success of the program is based on the
unwavering political support. Though critical, that alone of course is still only a start;



Annex 2.2
Page 8 of 10
implementation involves numerous details and requires a well-oiled machinery for steady
progress. A senior-level Steering Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary of the Government
has been established to provide policy guidance and monitor the implementation of the reform
program. A Task Force chaired by the Principal Secretary of the Government's Department of
Energy and a Reform Project Management Group reporting to the Task Force have been
established. They manage the program and coordinate the work of seven working groups. The
progress of the program can be attributed to the devotion and effort of these groups, which
brought together government and OSEB officials, retired OSEB employees and outside experts.
A consortium of management, financial, economic, legal, regulatory, engineering and environment
consultants (what we call the Reform Consultant) has been engaged to help the Government
implement the program. Under the reform program the Government will continue to provide
adequate funding, complementing external sources, in its annual budgets for the implementation
organization including phase 2 and 3 of the Reform Consultant's work. With the formation of the
companies most of this work is now being transferred to them. Complementary technical
assistance projects for institution building support to the new utilities and power system planning
have been initiated for which ODA and ADB support have been received. Individual investment
components under the reform program are being implemented by the concerned power
generation, transmission and distribution utilities, GRIDCO carrying the main responsibility for
implementing investments supported under the Bank loan.
The key actions already implemented and measures taken by the Government and the
reform implementation organization in each main area of the reform program are described more
fully in the following sections:
(a)   Unbundling and Structural Separation. Generation has been separated from
transmission and distribution and two new utilities, OHPC and GRIDCO have
been established complementing earlier action establishing the Orissa Power
Generation Corporation (OPGC, which has commissioned the two units of the lb
thermal project). The service area of GRIDCO has been divided into four areas
for the privatization and development of four distribution utilities. Once
completed this will leave GRIDCO in charge of transmission and system
operations and centralized power procurement for the distributors,
(b)   Reform Legislation. Enabling legislation has been enacted. The transfer of assets
includes the settlement and valuation of OSEB's accounts receivable and payable
balances, as the uncollectible receivables and overdue payables will not be carried
over to GRIDCO or the new distribution companies. While establishing the
opening balance sheets for OHPC and GRIDCO, the fixed assets of OHPC and
GRIDCO have been revalued, keeping the economic value, investment needs,
adequacy of return, as well as sensitivity to tariff in view;
(c)   Institutional Development. OHPC and GRIDCO have been registered under the
Companies Act. Their Boards of Directors and top management have been
appointed, with significant non-government representation on the two boards
reflecting the Government's commitment to the development of autonomous



Annex 2.2
Page 9 of 10
commercial utilities. The development of OHPC and GRIDCO's management and
commercial accounting systems, personnel policies and other operational
procedures has started with the support of institution building technical assistance
and will continue under the reform program. The companies will have their own
personnel policies and will have full autonomy for making business decisions. The
private sector distribution companies will of course develop their own policies and
systems;
(d)   Staffing. A time-bound transition plan for the transfer of the Govemment power
staff and OSEB staff to the new corporations is under preparation, in consultation
with the labor unions and employees and with assistance of our consultants;
(e)   Regulatory Commission. Key staff of the regulatory agency have been identified
and the agency has started operations in shadow mode. Process for selection of
Commissioners has been initiated and is expected to be finalized within three
months. A set of regulations have been prepared. Soon after the commissioners
are appointed these will be finalized and placed before the state legislature;
(f)   Privatization/Pivate Sector Participation. OSEB's Talcher thermal power
station has been divested to NTPC. A power purchase agreement has been signed
and necessary security arrangements including a counter-guarantee agreement by
the Government of India (GOI) have been finalized for the development of two lb
units by a private developer for the sale of electricity to GRIDCO, financial close is
imminent. Structured negotiations for a management contract of one of the four
distribution companies have been concluded and the contract will be signed
shortly. This will provide a mechanism for testing the feasibility of private
management of distribution even before the regulatory regime is fully operational;
(g)   Competitive Bidding of New Generation. Under the reform program, GRIDCO
will contract new generation through competitive bidding procedures. Model
power purchase agreements have been prepared for both hydro and thermal
producers. Procedures for selection, qualification and evaluation of bidders are
being developed. These will be managed by GRIDCO which will ensure that
procedures for processing projects are transparent and fair to all interested parties;
(h)   Tariffs. Five electricity tariff adjustments raising average tariff revenue by about
67 percent were implemented between April 1992-November 1995. This record of
tariff decisions and implementation is unparalleled in the state power sector in
India. To continue the program of correcting the tariff distortions we are
committed to revise tariffs at appropriate level for FY 1997; and
(i)    Load Management/Electricity Conservation. Tariff adjustments, both to the level
and structure, have been and will continue to be used to promote efficient use of
electricity by the consumers. In addition, the Government has formulated and will



Annex 2.2
Page 10 of 10
under the reform program implement, with Bank financing and ODA technical
assistance, a program of load management/electricity conservation measues.
I trust the Bank will appreciate the depth of commitment and extend its support to reform
program implementation expressed in this policy statement. The Bank has commended our
reform efforts all along. The Government has benefited from Bank assistance in the formulation
and initial implementation of the reform program and of course, funding under the Upper
Indravati credit has been truly needed. Early new Bank funding is now needed and will help, in
addition to solidifying the reform program, enable work on the essential improvements to the
transmission and distribution systems to start at a level unprecedented in Orissa. I trust the Bank
Funding can be approved early to maintain the momentum of the Reform program.
With kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
[original signed]
A.R. Nanda
Principal Secretary



Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 15
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA'S POWER SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Key Features of Orissa's Power Sector Reform Program
I.    The Objectives of the Reform Program. As a pioneer among the states in India, the
Government of Orissa has decided to restructure and substantially privatize the power sector in
Orissa, to make power supply more efficient and to be able to meet the investment needs of the
sector. The Orissa government's ultimate objective is to withdraw from the power sector as an
operator of utilities, having instead privately-managed utilities operating in a competitive and
appropriately-regulated power market. Power sector industry and market structures to be
established under the reform program have been defined so as to facilitate this ultimate objective
with no further institutional restructuring. Significant private sector participation is to be
achieved under the program during the implementation period of the proposed project. The
reform program was endorsed by Orissa's Chief Minister in November 1993, formally approved
by the Council of Ministers in April 1994 and has been endorsed by the new state government,
which took office in Orissa in March 1995. GOO issued on April 20, 1995 a formal statement of
its power sector policy (an updated version is attached at Annex 2.2).
2.    The reform program was reviewed in January-March 1994 and was endorsed by a team of
consultants engaged by Bank. This independent review was considered desirable in view of the
close involvement of the Bank in the formulation and design of the program. Consultants
engaged by the Orissa government under Cr. 1356-IN in September 1994 to help implement the
program also reviewed the program at the beginning of their assignment and endorsed it,
however, with a recommendation to establish a new Regulatory Commission instead of
attempting to convert OSEB into an autonomous regulator.
3.    The Scope of the Reform Program. Orissa's power sector reform prograrn involves the:
(a) unbundling of generation, transmission and distribution, into separate services provided by
separate companies; (b) private sector participation in the new hydro generation and transmission
utilities and privatization of thermal generation and distribution; (c) competitive bidding for new
generation; (d) the development of an autonomous power sector regulatory agency; and (e)
related electricity tariff reforms at bulk power, transmission and retail levels.
4.    New Industry and Market Structures. The key elements of the program are as follows:
(a)   the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC) took over the hydro stations of the
Orissa government and OSEB on April 1, 1996. OHPC's operations and
organization; institutional development, staffing and training; private sector
participation; investments; and finances are detailed in Annex 2.4. OHPC will be
initially owned by the Orissa government, which intends to attract private sector



Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 15
participation in OHPC. New thermal generation will be developed by the private
sector, the first private power project is about to reach financial closure. The sale
of OSEB's only existing thermal station, Talcher, to NTPC has already been
approved. Orissa's lb units 1-2 are to be either privatized, most likely through the
sale of the majority of the Orissa Power Generation Corporation's (OPGC) shares
to private investors. OHPC and individual private generating companies will
function as generating companies under the 1948 Electricity Act;
(b)   the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) is responsible for transmission,
coordination of system planning and operations and, initially, distribution and bulk
power procurement. It took over these functions from OSEB on April 1, 1996.
GRIDCO is the main executing agency of investments supported under the
proposed project. Its operations and organization; institutional development,
staffing and training; private sector participation; investments; and finances are
detailed in Annex 2.5. GRIDCO has a mandate to privatize its distribution
operations in four stages, into four companies, by the end of 2000. Distribution
privatization is a key feature of the reform program and is elaborated in paras. 19-
24. GRIDCO will purchase power from OHPC and other generating companies
under power purchase agreements (PPAs) and sell in bulk to its own distribution
divisions and the new private distribution companies, which are allowed, and are in
the future expected, to buy also directly from the generators. GRIDCO will be
initially owned by the Orissa government, which intends to attract private sector
participation;
(c)   the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission will be an autonomous authority,
responsible for the regulation of the power sector. The structure selected for the
Regulatory Commission is a three-member commission with the necessary support
staff. Its objective is to help ensure the operational, managerial, and financial
autonomy of the new utilities in Orissa's power sector, to promote transparency,
efficiency, and economy; and to help Orissa attract private capital for power sector
development while safeguarding the interests of consumers; and
(d)   Reform Legislation. The Regulatory Commission has a statutory basis. New
legislation, the Orissa Electricity Reform Act 1995 (Orissa Act 2 of 1996), had to
be enacted (as described in para. 8) as the concept of a state-level Regulatory
Commission independent of the state government and power utilities does not exist
in India's power sector legislation, the 1910 and 1948 Electricity Acts, and the
fundamental statutory duties of OSEB under the 1948 Act (which include the basic
obligation to serve) and related assets have to be transferred to the Regulatory
Commission, GRIDCO and the distributors. The reform legislation: (a) established
the Regulatory Commission and defined its functions; (b) provided for the
licensing of transmission and supply of electricity; and (c) provided for the Orissa
government to restructure the Orissa power sector and to vest in companies
licensed by the Regulatory Commission certain assets, rights and liabilities of
OSEB. GRIDCO and the distributors will function as licensees under the new



Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 15
legislation, regulated by the Regulatory Commission in the performance of their
statutory and license obligations. Power sector regulation and the Regulatory
Commission are presented in detail in paras. 8-11, electricity tariffs are discussed in
paras. 12-14.
5.    The Rationale of Selected Design Features. The Regulatory Commission and GRIDCO
are at the center of the new industry and market structures selected under the reform program:
(a)   A New, Autonomous Regulatory Commission. Autonomy is not an end in itself,
instead, it is a means to an end. The fundamental reason for the Orissa
government establishing an autonomous Regulatory Commission is to persuade
prospective private investors that Orissa is making a credible commitment to
private ownership and operation of power sector facilities, which in turn is the key
for the sustainable financing and development of the sector (para. 18). It was
initially envisaged that OSEB be developed into a Regulatory Commission, after
the transfer of all its assets to the new utilities, in an attempt to avoid extensive
amendments to existing legislation. Orissa's legal advisers concluded, however,
that amendments were inevitable in order to adequately deal with the range of
fundamental statutory duties of OSEB, and it was therefore decided that a new
Regulatory Commission be established as legislation would have to be enacted in
any case. This approach also helps demonstrate the new direction of Orissa's
power sector policy, with OSEB no longer involved in the power sector in any
active role;
(b)    Vertical Separation. The Orissa government selected corporate unbundling, i.e. a
structure involving a separate grid company (GRIDCO) with independent private
generators (including OHPC, OPGC along with IPPs) and distributors, so as to
create a structure which is conducive to significant power development and
efficient distribution and not suspect for abuse by a dominating generation-
transmission utility. Generation was already partly separated from transmission
and distribution, as parts of Orissa's generation capacity were developed and
owned by the Orissa government and OPGC. Orissa's substantial coal reserves
and even in the national context significant potential for power development (para.
15) also influenced the choice of the industry structure, away from a structure with
a dominating integrated generation-transmission utility accompanied by
independent private distributors. Given the severe management, financial and
operational problems of OSEB, privatization without restructuring and related
regulatory reforms was ruled out as unfeasible and incapable of meeting the
objectives of the reform program;
(c)   Several Distribution Companies. OSEB has about 1.3 million consumers, and the
potential for connecting several million additional consumers in the long-term
exists, given the current low connection ratio. Orissa's population is about 34
million, 100 per cent electrification would involve about 5-6 million consumers.
Distribution rehabilitation is one of the main objectives of the reform program,



Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 15
given the current extremely poor efficiency of OSEB's distribution operations. The
current system even without any further growth could support a minimum of five
separate companies (a reasonable minimum size of a viable distribution utility being
about 200-300,000 consumers). The long-term prospect of substantial growth
reinforces the desirability of creating several, not just one, private distribution
companies, so as not to monopolize distribution from OSEB into one large private
monopoly. This will facilitate performance comparisons and thereby encourages
competition among the distributors and also facilitates improved information flows
and more effective regulation, which taken together are expected to contribute to
and result in better overall operational efficiency and consumer service. The
reform program involves the establishment of four distribution companies, selected
on the basis of detailed analysis of OSEB's distribution system (para. 19);
(d)   Centralized Power Procurement. Making GRIDCO initially responsible for
centralized procurement of bulk power, rather than decentralizing this
responsibility and requiring each distribution company to arrange its supplies (also
referred to as wholesale competition) and the gradual privatization of distribution
and initial reliance on GRIDCO for distribution are conscious design choices
strongly preferred in the Orissa situation over less conservative/more ambitious
(unrealistic) alternatives (such as immediate wholesale competition and immediate
privatization), to help ensure the successful implementation of the reform program
and to minimize the operational complexities during the transitional period from
the Orissa government/OSEB environment to the post-reform decentralized
industry and market structures. At a later stage, as the distribution companies
develop they will be able buy power directly from generators, after gaining the
necessary competence and confidence of suppliers (and their financiers in the case
of new generation projects) and after the necessary coordination mechanisms in
system planning and operations have been put in place; and
(e)   Retail Wheeling. The reform program also stops short of adopting retail wheeling,
one of the most advanced (and controversial) potential features of power sector
reform, adopted e.g. in the United Kingdom and pursued e.g. in the state of
California. Retail wheeling involves: (a) the separation of the supply of electricity
and its physical delivery to retail consumers; and (b) competition to supply to retail
consumers in the service areas of distribution companies, which retain the
monopoly of only the distribution function (also referred to as the wires business).
The main objectives of retail wheeling are to maximize competition in the power
sector by extending it to the supply business and thereby pressure the utilities for
the immediate elimination of cross-subsidies. While they are desirable objectives
and while competition and reduction of cross-subsidies are pursued in Orissa's
reform program, retail wheeling is regarded to be too complex for Orissa to adopt
at this early stage of development of its new industry and market structures. It
would add further risks to distributors and make distribution privatization even
more difficult than it already is in the Orissa situation, and would add further
complications to the planned gradual tariff reform.



Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 15
6.    Post-reform Orissa Power Sector. The reform program is scheduled to be completed by
FY2001, with the support of the proposed project and substantial complementary private
investment: (a) the Regulatory Commission would be in its fifth year of operations and would,
having completed its initial development program, be functioning in accordance with well-
established procedures and practices. After having devoted time and resources to tariff reform
and regulation in the initial years of the reform program, the Regulatory Commission, the Orissa
government and the utilities would well before FY2001 be in a position to operate in the new
structures and regulatory regime, (b) a major transmission and distribution rehabilitation program
would be substantially completed and the power system would be operating at an acceptable level
of operational efficiency; (c) four Distribution Companies would be serving Orissa's electricity
consumers. The distributors would still be buying their power in bulk from GRIDCO, but they
and the Regulatory Commission would be starting to consider the possibilities, advantages and
risks of wholesale competition and direct procurement; (d) GRIDCO would have privatized its
distribution functions, rehabilitated its transmission system and transferred the bulk of its DSM
activities to the distributors. The focus of its operations would have shifted to grid operations,
system planning and related coordination and power procurement; (e) OHPC would have
commissioned the Upper Indravati project and rehabilitated the oldest stations in its system,
shifting its attention to new hydro development prospects, and (f) three thermal power
companies would be operating (NTPC/Talcher, OPGC/Ib units 1-2 and AES/Ib units 5-6,
respectively). The fourth thermal generating company would be about to commission a new
station, Orissa's first without a central government guarantee, and further projects would be in
various stages of planning and execution.
7.    Initial Reform Implementation Action. Orissa has demonstrated strong commitment to
the program. The Orissa government and OSEB have taken significant concrete steps to
implement the program and improve the operational and financial performance of the Orissa
power sector:
(a)   Reform Implementation Organization. The Orissa government created in early
1994 and staffed a well-structured organization to launch its reform program. A
senior-level steering committee, chaired by the chief secretary, provides policy
guidance and monitors the implementation of the program. A task force chaired
by the principal secretary of the Department of Energy and a reform project
management group reporting to the task force are managing the program,
coordinating various working groups and teams of consultants funded by the
Bank, ODA, and ADB. The tasks of the working groups are currently being
transferred to the new utilities, GRIDCO and OHPC. The building that was used
to locate the Reform Implementation Organization is being taken over by the
Regulatory Commission;
(b)   Expert Support. Under Cr. 1356-IN, the Government of Orissa engaged in
September 1994 a consortium of consulting firms (referred to herein as the Reform
Consultant) to help implement the sector reform program. ODA has approved
technical cooperation grants to support Orissa's reform program and institution
building within GRIDCO and OHPC and took over the financing of the Reform



Annex 2.3
Page 6 of 15
Consultant's services in August 1995. The ADB provided complementary
technical assistance for long-term investment planning. It was completed in late
1995 and inter alia helped define Part A of the proposed Project;
(c)    Tariffs, Subsidies, Billing and Collection. The Orissa government has since 1992
authorized a series of five tariff revisions (the last in November 1995) to raise
OSEB's average tariff to the level of full cost recovery, covering OSEB's (now
GRIDCO's) operating costs and interest on borrowings. Orissa is therefore not
faced with having to implement abrupt tariff adjustments, which could make
reform politically impracticable. The Orissa government has also cleared the
backlog of subsidies that used to be required to compensate OSEB for
unremunerative tariffs and uncollectable receivables. In fiscal 1994 and 1995,
OSEB improved its bill collection close to full recovery of current bills and
reduced non-technical system losses by about 5 percentage points. The current
level, however, is still unsatisfactory, at almost 40 percent;
(d)   Privatization. The sale of OSEB's Talcher power station, Orissa's only thermal
power plant, to NTPC was approved by the Orissa State Assembly in June 1995.
Orissa is presently renegotiating the contract for lb units 5-6 with AES
Transpower. Negotiations are also underway to lease a part of OSEB's
distribution system to private sector management (para. 21);
(e)   Other Reform Implementation Milestones. In addition to the privatization and
private sector participation initiatives listed above, Orissa has incorporated
GRIDCO and OHPC, enacted the reform legislation, drafted regulations and
licenses for power transmission and distribution and PPAs for hydroelectric and
thermal projects, and prepared a grid code - thereby defining the new regulatory
and operational framework to guide operations among generators, GRIDCO, and
distributors; and
(f)    Reform Legislation, Asset Transfers and Start of Operations. Following advance
clearance by the central government, the Orissa State Assembly passed the Orissa
Electricity Reform Act of 1995 in November 1995. Formal central clearance, in
the form of the President's Assent, was obtained in January 1996 and the new law
was gazetted immediately thereafter. Assets transfers took place and GRIDCO
and OHPC became operational on April 1, 1996. The Regulatory Commission has
started operations in shadow mode. The recruitment process of its three
commissioners is underway in accordance with the provisions of the new 1996
Act.
Regulation and the Regulatory Commission
8.    The Enactment of the Reform Legislation and the Establishment of the Regulatory
Commission. Constitutional sharing of the power sector responsibility between the center and
the states requires that the reform legislation, though applicable only in Orissa, will also have to
be approved by the Government of India. This approval is formally issued as the President's



Annex 2.3
Page 7 of 15
Assent. A complete draft legislation prepared by Orissa was reviewed and refined in an iterative
process by the two governments. The advance clearance of the legislation by the central
government was issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs in early November 1995. With this
advance clearance, Orissa was able to formally approve the legislation on November 28, 1995,
with confidence that the required final step, President's Assent, would be obtained without
complications. The President's Assent was given in January 1996 and the Orissa Electricity
Reform Bill was gazetted in January 1996 and became effective on April 1, 1996. This legislative
process had to be completed before the Regulatory Commission can be formally established. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that disbursements under Part A of the proposed project will
commence once, inter alia, the Regulatory Commission has been formally established, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. For the other disbursement condition, please see para. 21. The
Regulatory Commission would have substantial autonomy in approving tariffs and making other
regulatory decisions designed to encourage competition and efficient operation of the power
sector, as outlined below. The reform legislation contains several fundamental building blocks
designed to achieve autonomy. These include: (a) fixed and staggered terms for the three
commissioners; (b) their transparent selection process and qualification requirements; (c) limits on
the Orissa government's ability to remove commissioners before the end of their terms; (d)
prohibitions on current and future ties to regulated entities and restrictions on post-regulatory
employment; and (e) financing of the Regulatory Commission's operating expenses under the
consolidated fund in Orissa's budget (a privilege granted in India only to the supreme and high
courts, the election commission, and few other constitutional authorities) and their recovery
through license and other fees. These elements are intended to prevent the Regulatory
Commission from being "captured" by either the state government or the entities that are being
regulated. Autonomy does not mean the absence of accountability. The Regulatory Commission
will be accountable to the tariff standards and other obligations in the reform legislation and in the
individual operating licenses and regulations issued under the legislation. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government of Orissa will furnish to the Bank (1) by December
31 each year, a statement of the Regulatory Commission's estimated expenditure for the ensuing
financial year as prepared by the Commission; and (2) by March 31 each year, the Regulatory
Commission's approved budget for the ensuing financial year.
9.    The Development of the Regulatory Commission. Work to build up the Regulatory
Commission is underway. Prior to its formal establishment, the Regulatory Commission operated
in a "shadow mode", led by two shadow commissioners identified by GOO. This effectiveness of
this effort suffered, however, as the two shadow commissioners could not ultimately be
considered for regular appointment (due to age restrictions that resulted from the central
government review) and the Orissa government found it difficult to mobilize sufficient staff in
advance. Comprehensive legal, commercial and technical documents (reform legislation,
regulations and licenses, PPAs and a grid code, respectively) to set the new regulatory and
operational framework between generators, GRIDCO and distributors have been prepared by the
Reform Implementation Organization with the assistance of the Reform Consultant. During the
ongoing phase 2, technical support will be provided to the new utilities and the Regulatory
Commission under the proposed project to help operationalize these new agreements. One of the
main areas of work of the Reform Consultant under Phase 2 is the institutional development of
the Regulatory Commission and the closely related electricity tariff reform, since a new regulatory



Annex 2.3
Page 8 of 15
regime and tariff reform are crucial to the successful implementation of the reform program. The
Reform Consultant will help develop the Regulatory Commission, establish its work arrangements
and procedures and assist in their initial application. Inter alia the Reform Consultant will help: (a)
the Regulatory Commission develop and apply tariff setting methodology; (b) the utilities model
and develop tariff proposals; and (c) the Regulatory Commission evaluate the tariff proposals of
GRIDCO and the distributors. Study tours to and visits from other regulatory agencies in the
developed and developing world and a collaborative twinning arrangement with a regulator to be
selected will be supported under the technical assistance component of the proposed project.
10.   The Regulatory Commission will issue the licenses of GRIDCO and the distributors and
monitor the performance of their statutory and license obligations. This would inter alia include:
(a) approving the retail tariffs of distribution companies and the bulk supply and transmission
tariffs of GRIDCO, on the basis of proposals submitted by the utilities; (b) setting and monitoring
related performance standards in the supply of electricity; (c) setting and monitoring performance
standards in the promotion of efficient use of electricity by consumers to be achieved by the
licensees; and (d) resolving certain disputes between licensees and consumers. The new
legislation authorizes the Regulatory Commission to vary the principles used in regulating
licensee's charges from those contained in the Sixth Schedule of the 1948 Electricity Act. Most
importantly, the pass-through of costs would not be automatic (irrespective of performance) and
their rates of return on their capital base (shareholders' equity and reserves utilized in the
business) would not be guaranteed at a prescribed level as in the Act, but would be linked to
performance standards specified in their licenses. In line with the Act, the reference rate of return
is expected to be tied at a variable rate (currently 12%) determined by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI). The proposed key financial covenant of GRIDCO is to be set accordingly (Annex 2.5),
with a rate of return of capital base of RBI rate plus 5%, currently 17%. Performance standards
are expected to evolve from basic loss reduction targets towards a more comprehensive set of
requirements (paras. 21-22), in consultation with the industry and other affected parties.
Requirements in the promotion of the efficient use of electricity by the consumers will similarly be
initially modest (to be realistic) and evolve over time. They will be influenced by experience in the
implementation of the DSM component of the proposed project.
11.   The Regulatory Commission need not issue licenses to generating companies operating in
Orissa or directly regulate their tariffs or quality of service. GRIDCO will have in its license an
obligation to contract generation with efliciency and economy. GRIDCO would not be
automatically able to pass on costs under its PPAs. As per Orissa's power policy statement, new
generation is expected to be procured through competition. GRIDCO will have to demonstrate
to the Regulatory Commission: (a) that new capacity is needed; and (b) that it has conducted a
fair and transparent competition to select developers for new generation projects to meet its
license requirement for efficiency and economy. The Regulatory Commission would have the
right to review the bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and contract award
recommendations, though its review would be expected to over time increasingly focus on the
competitiveness of the process rather than the details of the documents and evaluation. Several
memoranda of understanding (MOUs) are already in place, signed between OSEB and
prospective developers of private generation projects. Should GRIDCO wish to pursue some of
them, it would have to specifically satisfy the Regulatory Commission that the terms and



Annex 2.3
Page 9 of 15
conditions in the resulting PPAs are reasonable, i.e. meet its license requirement for efficiency and
economy in power procurement. In the absence of competitive selection of the developers, the
Regulatory Commission's review would be expected to be more exhaustive and detailed. Tariffs
of private generators will be set in accordance with applicable central government notifications,
which currently specify 16% return on equity at prescribed performance levels. The same
principles would be applied to OHPC's tariffs as well. The proposed key financial covenant of
OHPC is to be set accordingly (Annex 2.4). There may initially be some overlap in the
jurisdiction of CEA and the Regulatory Commission in the review of private generation projects
in Orissa. Demarcation lines are being reviewed and will over time become clearer, as CEA's
involvement in the review of state-level power projects not seeking central guarantees is expected
to substantially decrease and ultimately diminish. As an example, the maximum value of projects
exempted from CEA review has been progressively increased from Rs 250 million in 1991 to Rs
1,000 million and in January 1996 to Rs 4,000 million.
Electricity Tariffs
12.   Current Electricity Tariffs and Subsidies. The Orissa government is not faced with a
requirement to implement abrupt tariff adjustments, which could have made the implementation of
the whole reform program politically impossible. Instead, the program is premised in a series
of politically manageable tariff adjustments, each raising average tariff revenue well above
the rates of inflation, but acceptable within the prevailing political realities. The first
adjustment was made in April 1992, after a period of marginal annual revisions. In 1993, GOO
adopted a five-year policy of annual adjustments of about 15% and has implemented the policy in
1993, 1994 and 1995. After four tariff adjustments from April 1992, OSEB's average tariff
revenue in FY95, about Rs 1 .38/kWh, was sufficient to enable OSEB to cover the cost of its
operations in FY95 notwithstanding the high system losses. The Orissa government subsidy
(Rs. 1 ,6 10 million) was still required to cover extraordinary provision for uncollectible receivables
and write-offs for an amount of Rs 1,521 million. But for this additional provision and write-offs,
OSEB's tariffs were adequate to cover its costs and earn the statutory return in FY95. For FY96
even after tariff increase of 17% in November 1995, Orissa government needs to provide subsidy
to OSEB to cover large provision ( Rs. 1.3 billion) for bad and doubtful receivables and loss of
revenue due to delay in tariff revision. The accumulated subsidy has been off set against
government's loans and asset revaluation while transferring the assets to GRIDCO in April 1996.
13.   Future Tariffs Annual tariff adjustments to be implemented over the FY96-FY98 period
to meet the agreed financial targets of GRIDCO and OHPC are in the same range as those
implemented since April 1992, notwithstanding the entry of increasingly high cost new generation
from lb units 1-2, NTPC's Talcher and then lb units 5-6. Subsequent adjustments, in the FY99-
2001 period, will be even smaller. The main explanations for this reasonable tariff outlook are:
(a) past tariff adjustments have brought the tariffs to a level of cost recovery, notwithstanding the
current high system losses; (b) the small 6 per cent share of agricultural load and the introduction
of the central government's recommended minimum paise 50/kWh rate in 1992, i.e. the absence in
Orissa of the situation so common in India, where a substantial agricultural load is being served by
the SEBs at heavily subsidized rates; (c) low cost and relatively fast system loss reduction, given
the very high level of system losses, is an "alternative" source of additional revenue to be realized



Annex 2.3
Page 10 of 15
from additional recorded sales and helps contain the need to raise unit revenue; and (d) the cost of
generation of the Upper Indravati project is very attractive in spite of the implementation delays
and when commissioned the project will have a positive impact on the finances of OHPC and
GRIDCO. The FY97 tariff adjustment, already authorized by the Government in GRIDCO's
provisional license issued on April 1, 1996, is expected to become effective by July 1996.
Subsequent tariff adjustments would be authorized by the Regulatory Commission. Annexes 2.4.
and 2.5 present OHPC's and GRIDCO's financial projections and tariff requirements.
14.   Structural Improvements. While the electricity tariff rates in Orissa have been raised to
cover the cost of supply in FY95, the structure of the tariffs still contains substantial distortions
from a structure set to cover the cost of service from each major consumer category. Industrial
and commercial consumers pay tariff rates in excess of the cost to supply them. The resulting
extra revenue is used to cross-subsidize agricultural and residential consumers. With the
introduction of GOI's minimum agricultural rate of paise 50/kWh in 1992 and subsequent
additional minor adjustments, and given the low share of agriculture in electricity consumption in
Orissa, the burden of cross-subsidizing agricultural consumers is bearable in Orissa. This is in
contrast to several other states in India, which report agricultural sales of 30-40% of total
consumption (though actual agricultural use of electricity may be substantially lower as discussed
in SAR Chapter 1). The bulk of cross-subsidies in Orissa is enjoyed by residential consumers.
GOO's policy statement includes a commitment to contain cross-subsidies and in the FY96
adjustment in November 1995 the Orissa government introduced a major structural improvement
in the residential tariffs, to limit cross-subsidy to the low monthly consumption levels and
thereafter progressively raise the rates to full cost recovery at highest monthly consumption levels.
Beyond FY97, the policy of containing cross-subsidies will be implemented by the Regulatory
Commission. Cross-subsidies can be reduced only gradually, given the very low income levels of
a large number of current and future residential electricity consumers and the Orissa government's
inability to provide direct subsidies from its budget.
Power Investments, Financing and Sustainability
15.   Investments under the Reform Program. Program investments include: (a) transmission
and distribution rehabilitation for system reinforcement and loss reduction; (b) consumer meters
and other demand-side management (DSM) investments; (c) the completion of the hydro
component of the ongoing Upper Indravati multipurpose hydro and irrigation project; (d) the
renovation of Orissa's only existing coal-fired thermal plant at Talcher; and (e) the privatization
and further development of coal-fired power generation at lb (the completion and privatization of
Ib units 1-2 and the construction of units 3-4). Additional power generation projects, beyond Ib
units 3-4, are expected to commence during the fiscal 1997-2003 period. Though a number of
memoranda of understanding (MOUs) and provisional power purchase agreements and their
equivalents have been signed with private power developers by OSEB and/or the Orissa
government, not many of these are expected to reach fruition, inter alia due to difficulties and
controversies in earlier non-competitively awarded projects and the March 1996 deadline set by
the central government for obtaining CEA's in-principle clearance of MOU projects. In order to
protect GRIDCO from such prior arrangements, at negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Government of Orissa will indemnify GRIDCO for all liabilities that may be incurred by GRIDCO



Annex 2.3
Page 11 of 15
as a result commitments made by the Government or OSEB under provisional power purchase
agreements, Memoranda of Understanding or other similar arrangements with independent power
producers. Instead developers for future generation projects are expected to be selected by
GRIDCO through competitive bidding, as per Orissa's policy statement and GRIDCO's license
obligation. In addition to the lb units 5-6 (the AES Transpower project), this core investment
estimate assumes that two thermal projects with a capacity of 500 MW each will be launched in
the next few years and will commissioned in FY2002 and FY2004 respectively. In addition, a
provision for one hydro project, Sindol, is included in the above investments requirements. The
proposed Sindol project is planned as a series of three run-of-river stations, the first two at 100
MW and the third at 120 MW capacity. The justification of this investment program is analyzed
in SAR Chapter 5.
16.   Future Investments. About a quarter of India's coal reserves are located in Orissa and
accordingly the state has the potential for substantial further coal-based power development, for
sale within Orissa and for export to other states and regions. While GRIDCO will facilitate power
development for Orissa's needs, other agencies including the central government's NTPC and
POWERGRID are expected to play a major role in facilitating the development of Orissa's coal
resources for power. NTPC's investment program includes substantial further investment in
Orissa beyond the 2x500 MW Talcher station being developed under Bank support (Ln. 2845-
IN). Private developers are exploring possibilities in Orissa, including the Hong Kong-based
Consolidated Electric Power Asia (CEPA), which has announced plans to develop a major station
(ultimately consisting of eight 660 MW units) in Orissa for sale to several states in the Eastern,
Western and Northern regions, to be facilitated by POWERGRID. Orissa's hydro potential is
significant only for local development. Fifteen medium and large hydro projects, totaling 2,450
MW, have been identified for potential development to help meet Orissa's needs. Most are
suitable for competitive development, some are expansions at existing sites or multipurpose
developments and expected to be undertaken by OHPC.
17.   Financing. The total cost of projected investments under the reform program in the
FY97-2003 is estimated at about US$3.3 billion. The cost estimates and financing arrangements
of the program are given in Attachment 1. The majority of the investments in the program, about
US$1.9 billion, are for private generation projects and are expected to be financed by project
sponsors and their financiers (domestic and international credit and capital markets and export
credit agencies). The balance of the program consists of the investments of GRIDCO and OHPC
(along with a relatively modest investment by NTPC for Talcher renovation). They are expected
to be financed substantially through internal cash generation of GRIDCO and OHPC, consistent
with their projected strong internal resource mobilization capability, by various local financiers,
ADB, ODA and as proposed by the Bank.
18.   Sustainability. The justification of the reform program in Chapter 5 includes a section
examining the expected development path of the Orissa power sector in the absence of the reform
program. It concludes that reform is a prerequisite to sustainable power development and
economic growth in Orissa. The launching of the reform program will, however, by itself not be
sufficient notwithstanding the actions already taken and the significant results already achieved
under the program. While Orissa's first private power project is about to reach financial closure,



Annex 2.3
Page 12 of 15
it has to be noted that this pioneer project will enjoy a Government of India counter-guarantee as
insisted upon by its developer and financiers. Future projects are unlikely to obtain such a
guarantee, Orissa's reform program notwithstanding. Central government counter-guarantees to
an individual state are limited to the total central assistance to that state, in practice well below
that. Orissa (which is a medium-size state) is unlikely to "qualify" for a second guarantee. Future
private generation projects will have to depend primarily on the financial strength of the client
(GRIDCO and later also the private distribution companies) and related security arrangements.
The sustainability of power development in Orissa, beyond the core investments in the
FY97-2003 program, depends critically on GREDCO/the private distributors and the
Regulatory Commission being able to create, demonstrate and maintain a track record of
commercially viable operations and prudent sector regulation. The proposed project is
designed to help develop the utilities and the Regulatory Commission and enable them to build
such a track record of performance. In the (obvious) absence of such a track record in the
immediate future, Bank guarantees may be sought to facilitate the implementation of the next 1-2
projects. The Bank has indicated to the Orissa government that for the guarantee to be
considered, Orissa would have to continue to implement the reform program and select project
developers through competitive bidding in line with GOO's policy statement. Bank guarantees
would also be considered to facilitate distribution privatization. In order to ease the concerns of
prospective private distributors about access to capital to upgrade the distribution systems, the
transfer of ongoing investments under the project and their financing including the Bank loan as
well as the leasing of investments made by GRIDCO financed under the proposed Bank loan
would also be allowed.
Distribution Privatization
19.   Distribution privatization by December 31, 2000, along with regulatory and tariff reforms,
is a key feature of Orissa's reform program. Accordingly, at negotiations agreement was reached
that GRIDCO will gradually transfer its distribution system to private distribution companies in
accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the Bank. As reflected in its policy
statement, GOO intends to complete the process well before the agreed deadline. Orissa's
distribution system, comprising 10 OSEB distribution circles, has been divided into four areas,
entitled Central, Southern, North-Eastern and North-Western. Each area consists of two or three
circles of OSEB. The distribution company areas have been selected so that they are reasonably
comparable regarding mixes of consumer loads and other criteria (such as growth potential).
GRIDCO has a mandate to privatize its distribution system gradually, area by area, by the end of
year 2000. Distribution areas will be privatized sequentially, rather than all at once, recognizing
that this is a new, and complex exercise and has to be carefully planned and managed to ensure
that it is successful.
20.   The First Distribution Privatization. The first privatization was complicated by the lack
of detailed and accurate information about the assets and liabilities of each OSEB circle and the
fact that the new Regulatory Commission is not yet in place. It was not considered appropriate to
structure a contractual arrangement that bypasses the Regulatory Commission; nor was it
straightforward to structure a mutually satisfactory arrangement that requires a private sector
company to accept now (in a lease contract) a future change to a new, but as yet unknown, set of



Annex 2.3
Page 13 of 15
rules that would affect the lease. Given the uncertainties about the Regulatory Commission and
the lack of detailed information any long-term transaction with the private sector would require
the Orissa government to give such guarantees and assurances to the private sector that they
would be very little transfer of risk. Privatization without the transfer of risk is amongst the worst
of possible privatization options. Orissa's distribution privatization will therefore be launched
with a short-term distribution operations agreement (DOA) that terminates at a fixed date (by
which time the Regulatory Commission is in place and also has an initial track record). The DOA
would be followed by either a long term lease or transfer of ownership to the private sector,
pursuant to a license granted by the Regulatory Commission. The company selected for the DOA
will have an exclusive opportunity to negotiate, within a specified period and subject to
performance, regarding the follow-up, long-term privatization arrangements. If such negotiations
result in an agreement, the DOA may be terminated early to allow the long-term arrangement to
commence. If an agreement can not be reached within the specified period, GRIDCO may
negotiate with other parties so as to ensure that a long-term arrangement is finalized by the
termination date of the DOA.
21.   Negotiations on a DOA of the Central Company (comprising three circles: Bhubarneswar,
Cuttack and Dhenkanal) are about to be completed. Four companies, that had earlier expressed
interest in taking over parts of OSEB's distribution system and had signed MOUs for specific,
partly over-lapping areas, were instead invited in February 1995 to participate in structured
negotiations to take over circles in the area of the proposed Central Company. A technical and
financial information package and a draft term sheet for the DOA prepared by the Reform
Implementation Organization with the assistance of the Reform Consultant were submitted to the
four companies ahead of negotiations. After several rounds of technical offers, price bids and
negotiations, one of the four companies was selected and final details of the Distribution
Operations Agreement (DOA) are being negotiated. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
disbursements under Part A of the proposed project will commence once, inter alia, after one
distribution area has been placed under a lease/management contract acceptable to the Bank. The
DOA about to be signed meets the Bank's expectations. For the other disbursement condition,
please see para. 8.
22.   The term of the DOA would be up to three years. The company's compensation for its
services would be in the form of a fee consisting of a fixed element (which would be subject to
indexation) and a variable incentive fee. The incentive fee in the short-term lease is determined
primarily by the reference to any increase in the net revenues realized over the term of the
agreement (net of changes in tariff rates) for each kWh supplied to the circles as metered at
designated bulk supply points. The agreement would provide for additional elements of the
incentive fee to be calculated by reference to other measures of performance. These include: (a)
promptness and regularity of metering of supplies; (b) proportion of working meters out of total
meters installed; (c) cost of service to the consumers; (d) time to complete and number of repairs;
(e) time to complete and number of new connections; (f) security of supply; (g) accuracy of bills;
and (h) number of accidents. These additional elements will become more prominent in the
follow-up long-term arrangement.



Annex 2.3
Page 14 of 15
23.   Privatization of the Remaining Areas. The two-stage process of the first privatization --
short term followed by long term arrangement -- would no longer be required once the
Regulatory Commission has become operational and detailed and accurate information about the
assets and liabilities has become available. Hence, the strategy outlined above is to be replaced by
a long term lease or sale at least for some of the other three distribution companies. They are to
be privatized under contracts to be awarded through a transparent competitive bidding process
with the assistance of the Reform Consultant. Detailed data collection to facilitate due diligence
and accelerate the privatization process is underway. Long-term lease or sale contracts are
expected to feature much more prominently the additional elements of incentive fee of the short-
term lease listed above and will also reflect the license requirements of the Regulatory
Commission, including the promotion of the efficient use of electricity by their consumers. There
is currently a preference for a long-term lease over an outright sale of assets, due to two factors:
(a) the condition of existing assets is generally poor, due to insufficient maintenance and less than
satisfactory operational practices. Possible protracted arguments over the valuation of assets can
be eased if not avoided by opting for a politically more acceptable lease, where it will be easier for
the Orissa government to accept and defend lower, more realistic lease payments as the transfer of
the ownership of the assets is not involved; and (b) in the case of non-performance, it would be
much easier for GRIDCO to terminate the lease and take over the assets than in the case of
transfer of ownership. Outright sale of assets has, however, not been ruled out for the private
distribution companies and importantly, lease of sale, the private distribution companies will be
required to assume the responsibility for future investment in their areas. The proceeds of the
Bank and assets already installed using such proceeds can be transferred from GRIDCO to the
companies so as to facilitate meeting this requirement.
24.   Investment and Staff Arrangements. The objective of the DOA is to initiate the
distribution privatization program as quickly as possible, paving the way for longer term
arrangements for involving the private sector throughout Orissa's distribution system, and to
introduce private sector skills into distribution to improve management, operational efficiency and
quality of service. The bulk of investments in system rehabilitation and reinforcement would be
made by GRIDCO. The company would be invited to help manage and execute GRIDCO's
capital investment program, to be supported under the proposed project. The company would be
expected to provide its own staff for key management posts, the rest would be seconded by
GRIDCO to work for and be managed and paid by the company. The long-term leases or sale
contracts will shift the investment obligation from GRIDCO to the new companies. Staff would
similarly be transferred from GRIDCO and become regular employees of the companies. Some of
prospective companies pursuing distribution business in Orissa have indicated to the Orissa
government (and in informal discussions with Bank staff) their readiness to: (a) accept such staff
transfer arrangements, initial staff surpluses notwithstanding; and (b) deal with the staff
rationalization issues over a period of time in line with GRIDCO's own five-year staff transition
plan. Ongoing investments including those under the proposed project would either continue to
be financed by GRIDCO and leased to the companies upon their completion or transferred to the
new companies.
25.   Financial Viability. GRIDCO's financial projections have been prepared on the basis of
including the total investment requirements in distribution and keeping all 10 circles in the service



Annex 2.3
Page 15 of 15
areas of GRIDCO, in order to establish the viability of distribution as a whole. When distribution
areas are privatized, GRIDCO will transfer parts of this business, which overall has been
established to be viable. The transfer prices (primarily the lease payments and bulk power tariffs
to be paid by the companies) will be set so as to ensure that both the new distribution entities and
the remaining GRIDCO businesses remain viable. Both GRIDCO and the new distribution
companies would therefore be able to earn reasonable returns on their investments, subject to
satisfactory performance.



Annex 2.3
Attachment I
Pagel of 2
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(FY 1997-2003)
Rs. Million                     Millions of USS                 Foreign
Investment Plan                                        Local   Foreign        Total      Local   Foreign         Total       as % of
Total
Project investments a/
Transmission and Distribution                         8,261      16,667     24,928        201        398         599              e6      86.2%
Demand - Side Management                              1,250       2,527      3,777         30         67          97              69       980%
Technical Assistance                                    491       1,145      1,635         13         31          44              70       4.2%
0          0           0          0          0           0              0        0.0%
Project Base Cost                                      10,002      20.338     30,340        244        496         740              67
Physicalcontingencies                                   679       1,838      2,517         16         44          60              73
Price contingencies                                   3,438       2,994      6,432         79         69         148              47
Total Project Cost                                     14,120      25,170     39,290        339        609         948             64
Interest During Construction (IDC) on Bank Loan           0       1,034      1,034          0         24          24             100
IDConotherloans                                         814        212       1,026         19          6          25              23
Total Financing Required (Project)                     14,933      26,416     41,349        357        640         997              64
OHPC Investmenta
Upper Indravati - Main Construction                   1,097       4,326      5.423         29        113         143              79
Other OHPC Hydro Projects                             3,188       3,846      7,034         80        101         181              56
NTPC (Talcher Renovation)                               1,097          0       1,097         31          0          31               0
Pnvate Sector Generation Projects
AES Transpower (lb Units 3-4)                         7,737      18,054     25,791        199        464         662              70
Thermal Plant 1 (500 MW)                              7,679      17,918     25,598        186        433         619             70
Thermal Plan 11 (500 MW) b/                           5,417      12,640     18,057        116        271         387             70
Sindol Hydro (320 MW) _J                              6,009       6,009     12,018        130        130         260             50
Total Other Reform Program Investments                 32,224      62,794     95,018        771       1,512      2.283             66
Total Investment Plan (Sector)                         47,158      89.209    136,367      1,128       2,152      3,280             66
Financing Plan (Project)                                                                                                    %dTob
Proposed Project - IBRD                                     0      14,419     14,419          0        350         350             35
Asian Development Bank                                      0       2,025      2,025          0         57          57              6
Government of Orissa                                      960          0        960          26          0          26              3
Other Finanaers                                        10,605           0     10,605        233          0         233             23
Overseas Development Administration                     1,940       1,585      3.525         65         45         110             11
Intemal Cash Generation                                 1,429       8,387      9,816         34        188         222             22
Total Financing (Project)                              14,933      26,416     41,349        357        640         997            100
OHPC
Govemment of Orissa                                   3,133          0       3,133         81          0          81              4
Internal Cash Generation                              1,152       2,640      3,792         28         67          95              4
Other Financiers                                          0       5,120      5,120          0        136         136              6
Overseas Development Administration                       0        413         413          0         12          12               1
NTPC                                                    1,097          0       1,097         31          0         31               1
Private Sector Generation                              26,843      54,621     81,463        630       1,298      1,928             84
Financing of Other Investments                         32,224      62,794     95,018        771       1,512      2,283            100
Total Financing (Sector)                               47,158      89,209    136,367      1,128       2,152      3,280
uf Indudng taxes and duties equivalent to USS 195 million.
hi Reflects only part of the investment on these projects which will be completed beyond
the selected lime-slice of FY 97-2003



Annex 2.3
AKtachmentl
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
INVESTMENT & FINANCING PLAN
(Rs. million)
TOTAL  % OF
FY 97     FY 98      FY 99     FY00       FY 01     FY 02      FY 03   FY 97-03   TOTAL
INVESTMENT PLAN
1. OHPC                                     1,568     2,237      2,235     1,264       249        305        358       8,213
Add IDC                                     712       935       1,199     1,398         0          0         0        4,244
Total                                     2,280      3,172     3,434      2,661       249        305       358       12,458        9
2 GRIDCO                                    1,867     4,597      4,783     5,762      5,518      6,124     5,470      34,121
Add IDC                                     144       287        297        330       334        344       324        2,060
Reform Expenditure                          145       575        400         0          0          0         0        1,119
Technical assistance                        380       675        450        100        30          0         0        1,635
Incremental Working Capital               1,001       122        43          0         0          0          0       1,165
Demand Side Management                        0         0        400       400        450          0         0        1,250
Total                                     3,536      6,255     6,372      6,592     6,332      6,468      5,794      41,349       30
3 NTPC                                       529        568          0         0          0         0          0       1,097         1
4 PRIVATE SECTOR                            2,829     8,919     12,596     16,834    17,425     11,146    11,714      81,463        60
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                          9,174    18,914     22,403    26,087     24,005     17,919    17,865     136,367       100
FINANCING PLAN
1 OHPC
GOO                                        706       351       1,037     1,038         0          0         0        3,133       25
ODA                                        200       213          0          0         0          0         0         413         3
PFC                                      1,034      1,690     1,500       866         30          0         0        5,120       41
IBRD                                         0         0          0         0          0          0         0           0         0
ICG                                        339       917        897       758        219        306       357        3,792       30
TOTAL                                     2,280     3,172      3,434     2,661        249       305        358      12,458       100
2 GRIDCO
ICG                                        -654       839      1,605     1,642      1,975     2,141      2,268       9,816        24
ADB                                       1,000       800       225          0          0         0          0       2,025         5
PFC                                          0          0         0          0          0       500        500       1,000         2
OTHERS                                    1,060       760      1,056      1,175     1,002      1,527     3,026       9.605        23
IBRD                                       550      1,900      1,900     3,200      2,875      2,300         0      12.725        31
IBRD-Reforrn                               125        125       125         70          0         0          0         444         1
IBRD - DSM                                   0          0       400        400       450          0          0       1,250         3
GOO - ODA (LDCP)                            55        225       235         75          0         0          0         590         1
GOO-Reform                                 120        100        150         0          0         0          0         370         1
ODA-TA                                     280      1,025       575         30        30          0          0       1,940         5
ODA - Incremental Working capdal          1,001       482       103          0         0          0          0       1,585         4
TOTAL                                     3,536     6,255      6,372     6,592      6,332     6,468      5,794      41,349       100
3 NTPC                                       529        568         0          0          0         0          0       1,097
4 PRIVATE SECTOR                            2,829     8,919     12,596     16,834    17,425     11,146    11,714      81,463
TOTAL FINANCING                             9,174    18,914    22,403    26,087    24,005       17,918    17,865     136,367



Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION (OHPC)
Operations and Organization
1.    Corporate Mission. OHPC was incorporated, under the Companies Act of 1956, on April
21, 1995. Its role in the power sector reform program and the emerging new industry and market
structures are described in chapter 2 and detailed in Annex 2.3. OHPC will be responsible for the
operations and maintenance of the existing plants taken over from the Government of Orissa and
OSEB and the hydro component of the Upper Indravati project as well as their expansion where
feasible and viable. OHPC is also expected to participate in future hydro development,
particularly in developing future multi-purpose projects which by their nature are not readily
suited for development through competitive bidding (para. 7).
2.    Organization and Management. OHPC is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of
a Chairman and Managing Director (CMD), four full-time directors (one each for Operations,
Engineering, Finance & Commercial, and Human Resource Management) and four part-time
directors, one of them representing the Orissa government and three non-government directors
with expertise in legal affairs, finance/banking, and hydro power projects. The company will have
a General Manager to head the Information Technology function. The Chief of Internal Audit will
report directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This is a significant departure
from the prevailing practice of the Chief Auditor reporting to the Director (Finance) in most of
the public sector organizations in India. A company secretary-cum-law officer has already been
appointed. The three non-government directors have also been appointed to the Board. In
addition, Finance & Commercial and Human Resources Directors will be recruited externally. The
management structure is regarded satisfactory and the significant non-government representation
is expected to help strengthen OHPC's autonomy from the state government.
3.    OHPC's organization structure is built around six main functions: (a) Operations
responsible for operation and maintenance of existing hydro projects organized into two zones i.e.
Zonal Manager (North) responsible for Hirakud and Rengali, and Zonal Manager ( South)
responsible for Balimela, Upper Kolab, and Machukund; maintenance of the catchment area;
hydrology and technology upgrading; (b) Engineering responsible for engineering safety and
policy, water-shed management and environmental protection, project planning, coordination with
CEA, GRIDCO, new site investigation and preparation of project reports, project design and
specification, surveys, procurement, construction management, and renovation; (c)mFinance &
Commercial responsible for financial accounts, budgets and cost control, treasury, and PPA
administration; (d) Internal Audit for auditing financial accounts, and commercial operations; (e)
Human Resources and Administration for personnel policies, personnel management, industrial
relations, training and development, health and safety, land acquisition; and (f) Information
Technology responsible for system development, system standard and security, and network



Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 6
operation. In addition, Upper Indravati ( currently under construction) will be headed by a
Project Administrator reporting to the Chairman. The organization chart of OHPC is attached as
Attachment 1.
Institutional Development, Staffing and Training
4.    Institution-Building. Technical assistance for OHPC's institution building, under Part C
of the proposed project, will help OHPC refine its organization structure, develop and introduce
financial, personnel and management systems, and assist in developing the staff capacity to make
the companies efficient and viable corporate entities. The scope of the program covers the same
items listed in para.4 of Annex 2.5 for GRIDCO, details are given in Annexes 4.1-4.2. The
institution-building consultant team will include a utility with experience in hydro generation to
assist OHPC in hydro project planning, operations and maintenance.
5.    Staffing and Training, Cadre. At present OSEB has about 35,450 staff, of whom about
5,000 will be transferred to OHPC. Preliminary estimates of the institution building consultants,
indicate staff surpluses of about 10% in hydro plants and are well within manageable limits. With
expansion in the system some staff will be redeployable though some of them require retraining.
Unlike GRIDCO the magnitude of staff redundancy and the associated costs are not expected to
be high and can be met from internal resources of the company. A five-year transition plan,
similar to that of GRIDCO, is under preparation. At negotiations agreement was reached that
OHPC will submit its five-year staff transition plan to the Bank by December 31, 1996. OHPC's
cadre and staff training programs will be developed and implemented along the lines of GRIDCO.
At negotiations it was agreed that OHPC will develop the cadre as follows: (a) develop and adopt
"Classification, Control and Appeal" regulations and "Recruitment and Promotion" regulations by
December 31, 1996; and (b) complete the transfer of staff to the new cadre by March 31, 1997.
Private Sector Participation in OHPC
6.    The Government of Orissa is committed to divesting gradually its equity in OHPC,
starting with employee share issues and private placements, subsequently public bond and equity
issues, the first of which is expected by March 31, 2000, by which time OHPC is expected to have
established a satisfactory track record of profitable operations. At negotiations agreement was
reached that OHPC will list its shares and the Government of Orissa and OHPC will offer them
for sale to the public in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the Bank. While
little operating efficiency gains are expected from privatizing Orissa's existing hydro facilities,
private sector participation will enable the Orissa government to release its substantial investments
in such facilities for use in other priority sectors. Critical issues relating to the multi-use character
of the facilities (hydro and irrigation, plus in some cases also flood control) will have to be
resolved and appropriately reflected in OHPC's power purchase agreements to facilitate
commercial operation of OHPC and private sector participation. Similarly important on
privatization prospects will be the development of the commercial relations between OHPC and
GRIDCO and GRIDCO and the distribution companies. These issues will be addressed in phase 2
and phase 3 of the Reform Consultant's work.



Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 6
Investments
7.    OHPC has inherited from OSEB the renovation of two of the six units at Orissa's oldest
hydro station at Hirakud and from the Orissa government the hydro component of the Upper
Indravati multi-purpose hydro and irrigation project. Hirakud work is financed by ODA. Upper
Indravati was supported under Cr. 1356-IN until the exhaustion of funds in March 1995. OHPC
would complete the hydro component and the Orissa government's Department of Water
Resources the irrigation works. Future investments are expected to include further renovation
work at Hirakud and the 2x60 MW expansion of Balimela hydro station for additional peaking
power capacity. OHPC is expected to participate in future hydro development, possibly by
implementing projects secured through competitive bidding and in particular by developing future
multi-purpose hydro and irrigation (possibly also flood control) projects (which by their nature are
not readily suited for development through competitive bidding). Fifteen medium and large hydro
projects, totaling 2,450 MW, have been identified for potential development in Orissa. Most are
suitable for competitive development, two are expansions at existing sites and expected to be
undertaken by OHPC.
Finances
8.    Historical Performance. A summary of the performance of OSEB, GRIDCO's and
OHPC's predecessor organization, for the last six years beginning FY90, including OSEB's
income statement, sources and application of funds, and balance sheet, is provided in Annex 2.1.
9.    Valuation and Transfer of Assets. The valuation and transfer to GRIDCO and OHPC of
fixed assets which previously belonged to OSEB and the Orissa government is described in Annex
2.1. The following major hydro facilities will be transferred to OHPC: (a) the Orissa
government's hydro plants at Rengali (units 3-5) and at Upper Kolab (units 3-4); (b) the Upper
Indravati project; (c) OSEB's hydro plants at Hirakud, Rengali (units 1-2), Balimela, and Upper
Kolab (units 1-2); and (d) the ongoing Hirakud renovation works.
10.   Traditionally the Orissa government has provided loans-in-perpetuity for construction of
hydro projects. Since OSEB has depreciated these assets but not repaid the loans, its accounts
showed outstanding long-term loans exceeding the historical depreciated value of its hydro
projects. Compared to Rs. 3,639 million the depreciated historical cost of these assets, the
associated liabilities were valued at Rs. 4,379 million. This difference of Rs. 740 million has been
offset against the revaluation of assets. In the case of the past loans for hydro developments, the
Orissa government has agreed to transfer Rs. 3,000 million as equity and consolidate the balance
in a new loan to OHPC which will be repaid over 15 years subject to a 5 year period of grace.
11.   As in the case of GRIDCO, the Orissa government has agreed to revalue fixed assets by
an amount of about Rs. 8,400 million before transferring these to OHPC. After revaluation and
off setting excess liabilities ( para. 10), OHPC has a revaluation reserve of Rs 7.6 billion, which
will be accounted for through issue of "Partially Convertible Bonds". OHPC will issue its
convertible bonds on the same terms as those being issued for GRIDCO. The impact of
revaluation of hydro assets on OHPC's and GRIDCO's tariffs is shown in Attachment 4.



Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 6
12.   Future Finances. OHPC's projected financial statements are provided in Attachment 2.
The related assumptions used in preparing these forecasts are given in Attachment 3. Its financial
results for the period FY97-2003 are summarized in Table 1 and are discussed below
Table 1: OHPC's Financial Indicator,
V..   MbI numb A                    im.. .........                    .....
lNet Fixed Assets (Rs. million)     12,654   13,485   14,678   15,743   27,378   26,425   25,513
lTotal Operating Revenue (Rs. million)  1,319    1,905    2,102    2,293    4,717    6,071    6,012
Average Tariff(Rs.tkWh)                34       49       54       59       81      104      103
Increase in Tariff -%                  0.0    44.4      10.4     9.1      36.6    28.7       -1
Net Income (Rs. million)               89      480      480     480    1,280    1,484    1,484
Return on Revalued Net Fixed Assets   2.6      6.4      6.8      6.9    20.1      13.8     13.7
bfore Interest (%)
Return on Equity (°/)                   3       16       16       16       16       16      1k
Self Financing Ratio (%)                12      31       29       36       88        *        *
Debtto equity Ratiol1/                3.1      3.3      3.4      2.3      0.9      0.7      0.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio           3.6      4.0      2.7      2.0      1.6      1.5      1.5
Payables (days)                         3       13       13       13       12       14       1
Rcivables (days)                     60       60       60       60       60       60       6
* Negligible investments during the
year
1/ zero coupon bond excluded
13.    OHPC' s financial strategy is designed to address the need to finance large hydro
investments without having to depend on uncertain budgetary flows from the Orissa government.
It has ag,reed that it will seek close to a market rate of return on equity to enable it to tap capital
markets for part of its future investments requirements. It is proposing by FY99 to divest a part
of its equity through issue of shares possibly to a strategic investor. OHPC's tariffs are driven by
its objective to achieve a minimum return on equity of 16%. It is expected that from FY2001
onwards OHPC would start paying dividends to its shareholders.
14. TariJyfs and Profitability. The Orissa government has proposed to raise OHPC's tariff
revenue in FY97 to a level adequate for OHPC to break-even ( about Rs 0.34/kWh (compared to
the current average level of about Rs 0.28/kWh prior to revaluation of hydro fixed assets) and
increase it at an average rate of about 21% over the next three years. To ensure adequate
maintenance of hydro projects OHPC has set the repair and maintenance budget for FY 97 at Rs.
265 million, a quantum jump from about Rs 60 million budgeted for FY 96. This sets the
benchmark for repair and maintenance budget of OHPC to be covered through tariff, and is
reflected in the financial projections of OHPC (Attachment 2). As discussed in Annex 2.3, India
has adopted a target of 16% as the benchmark allowable return on equity investments for private
power generation projects, which is selected as a reference rate for OHPC, (and a comparable
return on capital base target on licensees, to be adopted for GRIDCO, Annex 2. 5). At
negotiations agreement was reached that OHPC will take all such measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the level and structure of its tariffs) and conduct its operations and



Annex 2.4
Page 5 of 6
affairs in such manner as to achieve, in FY97, revenues from all sources related operations and
non-operating income sufficient to cover all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes, adequate depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt, and in each subsequent
fiscal year such rate as is permissible under applicable GOI notifications. The rate of return in
FY97 would be lower, in view of the still ongoing transition and the impact of asset revaluation.
If projected tariff increases are approved by the regulator, OHPC should be able to achieve a
return on equity of about 3% in FY97 and 16% through FY2003. However, after comnmnissioning
of the Upper Indravati Hydro Project in FY2001, OHPC would need to increase its tariff by an
annual average of 32% in the two year period FY2001-2 and no tariff increase in FY 2003 for
achieving 16% return.
15.   Liquidity and Contribution to Capital Investment. As a result of the revaluation of the
fixed assets OHPC took over from OSEB, its depreciation expense will be larger and provide
significantly higher internal financing of its investment program. It is expected to have a self
financing ratio well above 20%. This is mainly because no new hydro investments after Upper
Indravati are planned. However, it should be able to undertake further large investments in hydro
projects after 2001. Since all state government loans have been consolidated into one loan with a
five-year moratorium and 10-year repayment, OHPC's debt service coverage will be in excess of
2.0 times until FY2000. After this date, the cover will fall to a comfortable 1.5 times. At
negotiations agreement was reached that OHPC will from fiscal 1998 not incur any debt, unless a
reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of OHPC show that the estimated net
revenues of OHPC for each financial year during the term of the debt to be incurred would be at
least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of OHPC in such year on all debt of
OHPC, including the debt to be incurred. OHPC's financial projections show that it should be
able to meet the 1.5 times target comfortably from FY97. At negotiations agreement was also
reached that OHPC will from FY97, maintain its accounts receivable at a level not exceeding two
months average billing and its accounts payables at a level not exceeding two months equivalent
of purchases (payments as per its contracts with suppliers).
16.   Financing Plan. OHPC's financing plan is provided in Attachment 1 to Annex 2.3. A
summary is given in Table 2. It proposes investment of Rs 12.4 billion to be financed 30% from
intemal cash generation and 70% from borrowing. OHPC has already contracted an ODA grant
for Rs 0.7 billion to be onlent through PFC; and a loan from PFC itself for Rs 3.2 billion. Project
execution under this plan is expected to be much improved, since the bulk of financing of OHPC' s
investment plans will now be independent of the Orissa govemment's budget. At negotiations
agreement was reached that OHPC, like GRIDCO, would from FY97 fumish by December 31
each year, its 5-year financial projections, including its investment program and financing plan, for
the Bank's review and comments.



Annex 2.4
Page 6 of 6
Table 2: OHPC's Financing Plan (FY97-2003)
SOURCES OF FUNDS
FUNDS FROM INTERNAL SOURCES                            18,978            433
Less Increase in Working Capital                  (1,592)            (38)
Less Interest Charged to Operations               (7,845)           (176)
Less Repayment of Loans                           (2,882)            (63)
Less Dividend                                     (2.867)            (62)
TOTAL FUNDS FROM INTERNAL SOURCES                       3,793             95      30.
EQUITY & OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS 1/                            0               0
BORROWINGS
World Bank                                             0               0       0.
State Govermnent                                   3,133              81      25.1
PFC/ADB/ODA                                        5,533              148     44.
TOTAL BORROWINGS                                        8,666            229      69.
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                 12,458            324    100.
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment 2/                                  8,213             213      65.9
Interest During Construction                           4,244              110     34.1
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                       12,458            324    100.
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                             12,458            324    100.(
1/ Does not include conversion of partially convertible bond into equity.
2/ Excludes work-in-progress of Upper Indravati project transferred in FY 97 to OHPC.
17.   Accounting, Budgets and Audit. GRIDCO's and OBPC's arrangements are discussed in
para. 21 of Annex 2.5. At negotiations agreement was reached that OHPC will from FY97 (a)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited; and (ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request.



INDIA                                                                     Annum 2.4
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING                                                               Attchwe 1
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION
IOHPC Boudl
Director          Diector          UIP Proe                 irecor                Directo r        1     1 
Eng_neering       Operations       Administrator      Finrnce                  Hunln Resources       Infomnton Techmology |temalAudi
Engeeng & Safely        I         P IIt Oice  |
Polcy, Sbnduds_                                           Power Purchase
P. eursAgmrementN
& Practes                      ACnihnisneorr                                                                          Sytm  Seui &
Genal Manaer                                         _    Corporate Pbanning
Deveopnm                          Chief Engineer           Coordinator
Manager                                               Corporat mFinane                 Mger
Enviroine                                                    M     una              HRPodlcy, Procedurs,
Proten Assurance                                                                       Codes, Job Evalton,                   Ma
Apprisal & Renumeration            Ha       N
Man ag r_ _                                                                        _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
Procuremen
Manager Edablishment                 Mana
Hira4Apponmenti, Industrbial 
>  Zonzl Geerwal Marager u    I   I              m  Relaons, Discipline & HR
l   North    |   L     H    3                          AdebnIsration
4 Zool Gaerd ~~~~~~~~~~~Manager| T ld 
I GenwW ManaW                            ~~~~~~~~Manpower Planning,
I South                                            Trainim & De{ 3oamw
mLos3\ohptMger
I Occu P Hefth         I
m :naakhpcid5



Annex 2.4
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION
INCOME STATEMENT
(Re. Million)
FY ending March 31                                            FY 97      FY 98       FY 99       FY 00       FY 01       FY 02      FY 03
Generaton Capacity (MW)                                        1,244       1,244       1,244       1,244      1,844       1,844       1,844
Energy Generated (GWh)                                         3,900       3,900      3,900       3,900       5,870       5,870       5,870
Auxliaries consumpton (GWh)                                       20          20         20          20          29          29          29
Electricity Sdes (GWh)                                         3,881       3,881       3,881      3,881       5,841       5,841       5,841
Operating Revenues:
Revenue from Sale of Elecricity                              1,319       1,905       2,102      2,293       4,717       6,071       6,012
Operating Expenses:
Operabon and Meintenance:
Repairs and Maintenance                                      265        310         367         409         531        572         617
Employee costs                                               191        210         230         251        403         436         470
Administratve and Genera Expenses                             21         22          24          26          27         29          31
Depreciabon                                                    528        548         566         588         598       1,258       1,270
Total Operabing expenses                                     1,004       1,091       1,187       1,273      1,560       2,294       2,388
Operating Income before Interest                                 315         814        916        1,020      3,157       3,777       3,624
Interest Chargeeble to Revenue                                   227         334        436         540       1,877       2,293       2,139
Profit before Tax                                                 89         480        480         480       1,280       1,484       1,484
Less: Provision for Tax                                            0           0          0           0           0           0           0
Net Income                                                        89        480         480         480       1,280       1,484       1,484
Dividend                                                           0           0          0           0         640       1,113       1,113
Trnsfer to Reserves                                               89         480        480         480         640         371         371
Average Twiff (PsIkWh)                                            34          49         54          59          81         104         103
Average revenue (Ps/kWh)                                          34          49         54          59          81         104         103
Average cost of supply (PsJkWh)                                   32          37         42          47          59          79          78
% Annud Increase in Twiff                                          0          44         10           9          37          29         -1
Operating Ratio (%)                                               76          57         56          56          33          38          40
Net Income                                                        89        480         480         480       1,280       1,484       1,484
Return on Revalued Not Fixed Asseb beore in.te   (.)             2.6         6.4         6.8         6.9       20.1        13.8        13.7
Return on Equity (%)                                             3.0        16.0        16.0        16.0       16.0        18.0        16.0



Annex 2.4
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(Rs. Million)
FY ending March 31                                        FY 97       FY 98       FY 99       FY 00       FY 01       FY 02       FY 03
Sources of Funds
Funds from internal sources                                843       1,362       1,482       1,608       3,755       5,034        4,893
Equity                                                       0           0           0           0       5,000        1,277          0
Barowings
Stots Government                                       7.149         351       1,037       1,038           0           0           0
IBRD                                                       0           0           0           0           0           0           0
PFCIADB/ODA                                            1,234       1,903       1,500         866          30           0           0
Partially Convertible Bond                                 0           0           0           0           0           0           0
Total Borrowings                                       8,384       2,254       2,537        1,903         30           0           0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0
Total Sources                                              9,227       3,616       4,019       3,512       8,785        6,312       4,894
Applicadon of Funds
Investment
Capitd Investment                                      8,011       2,237       2,235       1,264         249         305         358
Interst during Construction                              712         935       1,199       1,398           0           0           0
Total Investment                                       8,723       3,172       3,434       2,661         249         305         358
Debt SerAce
Amortization of ons and bonds                             10          10         104         269         501         963       1,025
Conversion of loen to equity                               0           0           0           0       5,000           0           0
Interest charged to operations                           227         334         436         540       1,877       2,293       2,139
Conversion of bond to equly                                0           0           0           0           0       1,277           0
Total Debt Service                                       236         344         540         809        7,378       4,533       3,164
DMdend on Share Caoiti                                       0           0           0           0         640       1,113       1,113
Increase in Working Capitd                                 268         101          44          41         519         361         258
Total ApplIcations                                         9,227       3,616       4,019       3,512       8,785       6,312       4,894
Self Financing Raio (%)                                       12          31          29          36          88         100         100
Debt Sevice Coverage Ratio                                   3.6         4.0         2.7         2.0          1.6         1.5         1.5



Annex 2.4
Attachrnent 2
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION
BALANCE SHEET
(Rs. Million)
FY ending March 31                                  FY 97      FY 97      FY 9       FY 9       FY 00      FY 01      FY 02       FY 03
Opening
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Block
Without Revaluation                          4,798      6,012      7.390      9.149     10,802     23,036     23,340      23,698
Add Revaluation amount                       8,402      8,402      8,402      8,402      8,402      8.402      8,402      8,402
Less: Depreciation                               1,232      1,760      2,308      2,874      3,462      4,060      5,318       6,587
Net Fixed Assets                                11,968     12,654     13,485     14,678     15,743     27.378     26,425      25,513
Capital Works in Progress                              0      7,509      9,302      10,977     11,985         0          0          0
Total Fixed Assets                                11,968     20,163     22,787     25,655     27,728     27,378      26,425     25,513
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                              44         44         44         44         44         44        202        465
Inventory                                           30        223        285        294        220        244        256        266
Receivables                                          0        217        313        346        377        775        998        988
Total Curren1 Assets                                  74        483        642        683        640       1,064      1,455      1,719
TOTAL ASSETS                                         12,042    20,646     23,428     26,339      28,368     28,442     27,880     27,232
LIABILITIES
Net Worth
Share Capital                                    3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      3,000      8,000      9,277       9,277
Retainedeamings                                      0         89        569      1,049       1,529     2,169      2,540       2,911
TotalNet Worth                                     3,000      3,089      3.569      4.049       4,529     10,169     11,817     12,188
Staff Supperannuation funds                          200        200        200        200        200        200        200        200
Long Term Debt
State Govemment                                    392      7,542      7,893     13,930      9,968      4,675       4.385      3.972
IBRD                                                 0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
PFC/ADB/ODA                                        671      1,768      3,326      4,304      4,563      4,138      3,618       3,618
Partially Convertble Bond                         7,663      7,663      7,663      7,663      7,663      7,663      6,386      6.386
Others                                              86        214        455        707        813        598        383        383
Total Long Term Debt                               8,813      17,187    19,337     26,604     23,007      17,073     14,771     14,358
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                    20        162        219        216        132         37         67         73
Working Capital Borrwings                            0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Current Maturlies of Debt                           10         10        104        269        501        963       1,025       688
Total Current Liabilities                             30        171        323        486        633       1,000      1,092       761
TOTAL LlABIUTIES                                     12,042    20,646     23,428     26,339     28,368     28,442      27,880     27.232
DebUNel Worth Ratio                                               5.6        5.4        5.3        4.0         1.7        1.3        1.2
Debt (excl. bonds)/Net Worth ratio                                3.1        3.3        3.4        2.3        0.9         0.7        0.6
Accounts ReceNvables (number of days)                              60         60         60         60         60         60         60
Accounts Paybles (number of days)                                   3         13         13         13         12         14         14



Annex 2.4
Attachment 3
Page 1 of3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Operating Statement
1 .    Hydro generation: Based on firm power projected for each plant.
2.    Auxiliary consumption: Estimated at the rate of 0.5% of gross generation based on past
trend.
3.    Sale of power: OHPC shall sell to GRIDCO under a power purchase agreement.
Income Statement
4.    Revenue and tariffs: The tariffs are set to achieve a break-even in FY97 and from FY 98
onwards, a return of at least 16%on share capital.
5.    Operation and maintenance: These comprise of; a) repair and maintenance costs of 5%
(real terms) of gross fixed assets for old plants and 1% of gross fixed assets for Upper Indravati;
b) Employee, Administration and general costs are escalated by inflation plus increase of salary
and other costs by an average of 2% per year.
6.    Depreciation: As per GOI guidelines, the allowable depreciation on hydro plants is 3.4%
and for other assets it is 7.84%. The average depreciation is hence considered at the rate of 4% of
gross fixed revalued assets including capitalized interest and expenses. Depreciation is charged on
gross assets in use for the entire year.
7.    Interest charges: Loans from GOO are assumed to be repackaged at the beginning of FY
1996/97. The moratorium and repayment periods together with the rates of interest for all loans is
indicated below:



Annex 2.4
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 3
GOO                15 years                 5 years            9.8%-13%
GOI (R&M) Loan   15 years                   5 years            10%
IBRD               15 years                 5 years            13%
PFC/ADB/ODA        15 years                 5 years            16.75%
Others             15 years                 5 years            11.6%
8.    Interest capitalized: Interest on long term loans prior to commnissioning of assets is
capitalized and funded through long term sources
9.    Expenses capitalized: Expenses capitalized are included in the capital cost of Rs. 11,866
million for Upper Indravati.
10.   Dividend on Share capital: No dividends have been assumed in the period FY 1996-99,
and all profits are ploughed back into OHPC's operations to help finance the capital expenditure.
8% dividend on paid-up capital is assumed to be paid in FY 2001 and 12% thereafter.
Sources and Applications of Funds
1 1. Equity: The initial equity of Rs. 3,000 million consists of conversion of 000 loans of like
amount. In FY 2000, on completion of the Upper Indravati, 000 shall convert Rs. 5,000 million
of loans to OHIPC as equity.
12.   Loans: GOO shall transfer expenditure of Rs. 6,443 million incurred on Upper Indravati
Project up to March 31, 1996, as a new consolidated loan carrying the existing termns for G00
loan. For completion of Upper Indravati Project, Power Finance Corporation has approved a loan
of Rs. 3,200 million.
13.  Investment: Investment planning is based on investment proposals by OHPC.
Balance Sheet
14.   Revaluation of Fixed Assets: The fixed assets are revalued at depreciated replacement
cost. Out of Rs. 8,402 million, the amount of revaluation, OHPC shall set-off the excess of
liabilities of Rs. 740 million arising on restructuring due to difference between depreciated hydro
assets and loans-in-perpetuity provided to OSEB by 000 in the past.
15 Zero coupon convertible bonds: Bonds of value Rs. 7,663 million will be issued to 000
on account of revaluation of the assets transferred to OHPC. These bonds will comprise of two
parts: Part A, 50%, will be converted to equity, at the option of the holder, in three equal



Annex 2.4
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 3
installments, in the 6th, 8th and 1 0th years. Part B shall remain a debenture which shall attract
interest @ 13% per annum until redemption. The bond does not carry any interest for the first
five years.
16.   Receivables for sale of power: Projected as equivalent to 60 days of sales.
17.   Inventories: Capital inventories are projected equivalent to 30 days consumption of
capital stores. O&M inventories are projected equivalent of 30 days of consumption of O&M
stores.
18.   Payables: (a) purchase of capital stores: 30 days equivalent of purchases of capital
supplies; (b) repairs and maintenance supplies: 15 days equivalent of consumption of O&M
stores.
Definitions of Financial parameters.
19.   Return on Revalued Net Fixed Assets: Net income divided by the net fixed revalued
assets, at the beginning of the year, reduced by the contribution from consumers.
20.   Return on equitv: Net income divided by the equity.
21.   Self financing ratio: Sum of gross revenues from all sources related to OHPC's operations
for the year, reductions in non-cash working capital less the sum of all expenses related to
OHPC's operations for the year excluding depreciation and other non-cash operating charges,
interest and other charges on debt, repayment of loans, all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all
cash dividends and other cash distribution of surplus, divided by the average capital investment for
the previous, current and following years.
22.   Debt Service Coverage Ratio: Net income before interest and depreciation divided by the
interest charged to operations and repayments due during the year.
23.   Debt to Net Worth ratio: Total debt from all sources including zero coupon partially
convertible bonds divided by the equity and retained earnings.
24.   Current Ratio: Total current assets divided by the total current liabilities including the
current maturity of debt and the accrued interest on loans.
25.   Accounts Receivable: Gross receivables as a proportion of total sales of power.
26.   Accounts Payables: Commercial payables for fuel and O&M  purchases as a proportion of
fuel and O&M expenses.



Anne 2.4
Attachment 4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION
ASSET REVALUATION IMPACT
FY ending March 31                                      FY 97       FY 98      FY 99       FY 00       FY 01       FY 02       FY 03
1. Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                       5,299       5,743       6,302       6,558      18,792     19,096      19,454
Interest Capitalized                                       712       1,647       2,847       4,244      4,244       4,244       4.244
Expenses Capitalized                                         0           0           0          0           0           0           0
Asset revaluation                                        8,402       8,402       8,402       8,402       8,402      8,402       8,402
Less Accumulated Depreciation                            1,424       1,636       1,865       2,117       2.380      3,301       4,235
Depreciation on account of revaluation                 336         672        1,008      1,344       1,680       2,017       2,353
Net Fixed Assets                                        12,654      13,485      14,678      15,743     27,378      26,425      25,513
2. Income (ignoring interest & depreciation on account of Revaluatlon)
Income before interest & Depreciation                      843       1,362       1,482       1,608      3,755       5,034       4.893
Depreciation                                               192         212         230        252         262         921         934
Interest Expenses
State Government                                          712         781        871        1,006        935         615         579
Others                                                    226         488         764        931         942         847         730
Less Interest capitalized                                 712         935       1,199       1,398          0           0           0
Interest charged to operations                             227         334         436        540        1,877      2,293       2.139
3. Bonds issued against Revaluation
Partially convertible bonds issued & outslancing         7,663       7,663       7,663       7,663       7,663          0           0
Amount converted to equity                                  0           0           0          0           0       1.277       1.277
Debt portion of bond                                        0           0          0           0           0       6.386       6,386
Additional cost on account of
Equity                                                      0           0          0           0           0         153         153
Debt portion of bond                                        0           0          0           0           0         830         830
4. Additional cost due to Revaluation
Additional cost on account of
Depreciation                                              336         336        336         336         336         336         336
Servicing partially convertible bonds                       0           0          0           0           0         983         983
6. Net Additional costs                                    336         336        336         336         336       1.320       1,320
6. Units sold (GWh)                                      3,881       3,881       3,881       3,881      5,841       5,841       5,841
7. Pre-revaluation:
Tariff (Ps/kWh)                                             25          40          46         50          75          81          80
8. Impact of OHPC revaluation on:
Incremental Tarfff for OHPC (Ps/kWh)                         9           9          9           9           6          23          23
Incremental Tanff for GRIDCO (Ps/kWh)                        6           5          4           3           3          11          10
9. Existing GRIDCO tariff (Ps/kWh)                         194         233        234         245         259         290         304
10. Tax Calculation:
Taxable income before revaluation                          281         692        710         732        1,542      2,406       2,418
Income due to revaluation                                  336         336        336         336         336         489         489
Less Depreciation per Income Tax                         2,883       3,159       3,510       3,841      3,648       3,466       3,262
Net taxable income                                       -2,266     -2,130      -2,464      -2,773      -1,769       -571        -354
Carry over of unabsorbed depreciation                    2,266       4,397       6,861       9,634      11,403     11.974      12,328
Description of Bonds
Amount Rs 7,763 million
Part A - 50% Non-convertible, redeemable in 5 equal installments from year 11 to 15.
Part B - 50% Converted to equity @ 1/3 each at the end of 5,7, and 9 years.
Interest Part A Nil for years 1 to 5, 13% for years 6 to 15 Part B: Nil for years 1 to 5; 13% on non-converted part till redemption



Annex 2.5
Page I of 11
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA (GREDCO)
Operations and Organization
1.    Corporate Mission. Under the power sector reform program of the Government of
Orissa, the power sector operations of the state government (hydro stations) and OSEB have
been transferred to two new utilities, GRIDCO and OHPC. GRIDCO was incorporated, under
the Companies Act of 1956, on April 20, 1995. GRIDCO will be responsible for transmission,
coordination of system planning and operations and, initially, distribution and contracting for new
generation. GRIDCO's central role in the power sector reform program and the emerging new
industry and market structures are described in Chapter 2 and detailed in Annex 2.3. GRIDCO as
OSEB's successor organization will represent Orissa at the Eastern Region Electricity Board and
will coordinate system operations with the Eastern Region Load Dispatch Center operated by
POWERGRID. GRIDCO is finalizing power purchase agreements (PPAs) with OHPC and
OPGC for Ib units 1-2 (on the basis of model thermal and hydro PPAs developed by the PPA
reform working group). The PPA signed between OSEB and AES Transpower for lb valley
project will be assigned to GRIDCO. GRIDCO will also replace OSEB as the contracting party
for Orissa in NTPC's bulk power supply agreement in the Eastern region (for NTPC's stations at
Farakka, Kahalgaon and Talcher). GRIDCO will, on the basis of projected system needs,
contract new generation capacity for Orissa. Its license will obligate GRIDCO to do so with
economy and efficiency; compliance will be monitored by the Regulator. Finally, GRIDCO will
have a mandate to privatize its distribution system by the end of 2000.
2.    Organization and Management. GRIDCO is managed by a Board of Directors, consisting
of GRIDCO's Chairman and Managing Director (CMD), six full-time directors (one each for
Transmission projects, Distribution, Commercial, Finance, Corporate Planning and Divestiture,
and Human Resource Management), and seven part-time directors, two representing the Orissa
government (secretaries of the Departments of Energy and Industries) and five non-governmental
directors with expertise in industry, power sector, finance/accounting/commercial matters,
banking and project finance, and telecommunication to be drawn from Indian financial institutions
and the industrial sector as well as, in the future, GRIDCO's expected private sector shareholders.
The Chief Auditor will report directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, a
significant departure from the prevailing practice of the chief auditor reporting to Director
Finance in most of the public sector companies in India. The company has selected, from the
open market, three directors in charge of Finance, Commercial, and Human Resource
management functions. A company secretary-cum-law officer has also been appointed. Once
GRIDCO privatizes its distribution business, it will not need full time directors looking after
distribution and marketing and will reconstitute its Board. Three non-government have already
joined the Board. The management structure is regarded satisfactory and the significant non-
government representation is expected to help strengthen GRIDCO's autonomy from the state
government.



Annex 2.5
Page 2 of II
3.    GRIDCO is organized on the basis of six main functions: (a) the Transmission function
is responsible for load survey, load forecasting; supply of bulk power; planning, construction,
telecommunication, operation and maintenance of the grid including interconnection with other
systems. It would own and operate all extra-high tension (here 132 kV and above) transmission
assets, including 132 kV step-down sub-stations; (b) Distribution is organized under four
divisions operating as profit centers, grouping OSEB's 10 circles in a manner which facilitates
their privatization. For the Central Zone, for which Distribution Operations Agreement is
expected to be signed shortly with a private utility, a coordinator will be appointed while other
three zones will be headed by General Managers; (c) Finance is responsible for investments,
resource mobilization, financial budget, financial accounts, cost accounting and control; (d) the
Commercial function is responsible for procurement of bulk power, PPA administration, and
load dispatch; (e) Human Resource Management is responsible for personnel management,
industrial relations, personnel policies, staff redundancies, training and development,
rehabilitation and resettlement of project-affected people; and (f) Corporate Planning and
Divestiture is responsible for planning, disinvestment, and the overall coordination of the Orissa
Power Sector Restructuring Project . In addition there will be two Chief Engineers one looking
after Information Technology; and the other environmental protection, engineering practices and
procedures, and safety. GRIDCO's organization chart is given in Attachment 1.
Institutional Development, Staffing and Training
4.    Institutional Development. Technical assistance for GRIDCO's institution building,
under Part C of the proposed project, will help GRIDCO refine its organizational structure,
develop and introduce financial, personnel and management systems, and assist in developing the
staff capacity to make the companies efficient and viable corporate entities. The scope of the
program, detailed in Annex 4.1, covers: (a) system operations, maintenance policies, standards
and procedures; (b) corporate planning, financial and accounting systems (including the
requirements of the Companies Act and the Electricity (Supply) Act, accounting policies, cost
accounting, internal control and internal audit system; (c) commercial systems including
metering, billing, and collection, revenue improvement, and the administration of PPAs; (d)
design and implementation of an MIS; (e) human resource development covering personnel
policies, man power plans, career development, compensation, training, organization and process
for handling staff redundancies; and (f) environmental management. The management structure
of the technical assistance program is given at Annex 4.2.
5.    Staffingand Training. At present OSEB has about 35,450 staffofwhom about 5,000
will go to OHPC and the rest 30,450 to GRIDCO, of which 5,050 shall be for transmission and
25,400 for distribution. Preliminary estimates of the institution building Consultant, indicates
that with growth in business within five years the staff surpluses will reduce to about 1 1% in
absolute numbers, though there will be mismatch in the skill level during the transition period
which are sought to be addressed through re-training and re-deployment. Any immediate
reduction in staff would be disruptive to the restructuring process and would require funds for
retrenchment. Several options for dealing with staff redundancies ( in numbers as well as skills)
are under consideration. Surpluses in transmission are well within manageable limits. Potential
private distribution investors have shown willingness to accept surplus staff and deal with
redundancy over a five-year period (Annex 2.3). With expansion in the system some staff will be



Annex 2.5
Page 3 of 11
redeployable after some retraining. A five-year transition plan for staff rationalization through
natural attrition, voluntary retirement, retraining and redeployment is under preparation under
GRIDCO's technical assistance program, based on a thorough review of the age and skill profile
of existing staff. At negotiations agreement was reached that GRIDCO will submit its five-year
staff transition plan to the Bank by December 31, 1996. ODA has shown interest in providing
grant funding to Orissa to help with GRIDCO's capitalization, which might include some costs
of staff redundancy. Thus this expenditure would be capitalized and its cost recovered through
tariffs.
6.    Cadre. By March 31,1997 GRIDCO will create a cadre of its own staff, so that its
officers and other staff become the employees of the company rather than remain on secondment
from the Orissa government as has been the past practice with OSEB. Most of the OSEB
engineers were employees of the state government and seconded to OSEB. This practice was not
found conducive to development of employee commitment, discipline, and managerial
effectiveness. Existing staff in the power sector will be given an option to join the companies
under new employment contracts, not inferior to their existing service conditions, and be allowed
to retain their pension and other benefits of current employment. Cadre development shall include
pay and compensation, conditions of service, personnel policies, and human resource development
policies. At negotiations agreement was reached that GRIDCO will develop the cadre as follows:
(a) develop and adopt "Classification, Control and Appeal" regulations and "Recruitment and
Promotion" regulations by December 31, 1996; and (b) complete the transfer of staff to the new
cadre by March 3 1, 1997.
7.    Training. GRIDCO's institution-building consultants are helping it to identify training
needs, select local as well as foreign training institutes, arrange and provide training in technical,
financial, human resource development, and utility management, as well as organize study tours.
To build up a sustainable institutional capacity of GRIDCO in training of its staff, the consultants
are also helping GRIDCO: (a) establish a nucleus of training staff, who will be trained in
carrying on this activity in future; (b) develop local institutional capability of training institutes;
and (c) develop training manuals including training strategy, policy, and procedures. The
training program and support facilities and equipment would be financed under the proposed
project.
Private Sector Participation in GRIDCO
8.    GRIDCO has a mandate under the reform program to privatize its distribution system.
Distribution privatization is one of the key features of the reform program and is described in
Annex 2.3. For GRIDCO it will be the primary area of immediate attention in terms of attracting
private sector participation. In addition, the Orissa government is committed to divest gradually
its equity in GRIDCO, starting with employee share issues and private placements. This will
subsequently be followed by public bond and equity issues, the first of which is expected by
March 2001, by which time GRIDCO is expected to have established a satisfactory track record
of profitable operations. The Orissa government will also explore possibilities for a placement of
shares to other grid companies including POWERGRID. The timing of privatization depends on
GRIDCO's ability to establish a track record of sound operational and financial performance,



Annex 2.5
Page 4 of 11
including collection from its clients (retail and distribution companies). At negotiations agreement
was reached that GRIDCO will list its shares and the Government of Orissa and GRIDCO would
offer them for sale to the public in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the
Bank. The Orissa government is expected to retain majority ownership of GRIDCO in the initial
years, until the completion of GRIDCO's institution building program and the stabilization of the
operations of Orissa's new power system being created under the reform program. The
performance of the Regulator and the behavior of the Orissa government as the owner will also be
critical to the success of efforts to attract private investment in GRIDCO and overall sustainability
of the program. To ensure that GRIDCO's suppliers/buyers of power can not influence the
policies, operations and business decisions of GRIDCO in their favor, the Orissa government has
decided that no single generator/distributor, its associates and related companies, subsidiaries etc.
shall be allowed to hold individually and collectively a controlling stake in GRIDCO's equity.
This is reflected in the Orissa government's policy statement.
Investments
9.    Transmission. The investment program of the power sector (Annex 2.3) includes the
expected private sector investments in generation and GRIDCO's investment program has been
designed accordingly. GRIDCO's transmission investment plan is designed to meet the
generation expansion plan and load projections on the distribution system. It includes system
voltages from 400 kV down to 220 kV and 132 kV. Details are given in Annex 3.1, GRIDCO's
(and OHPC's) year-wise investments are presented in Annex 2.3.
10.   Distribution. Orissa's distribution system is overloaded and low voltage lines are lengthy,
further increasing system losses. The chronic unavailability of funds, equipment and spare parts
has resulted in the system deteriorating to a point where it no longer meets any reasonable
operational standards and the frequency and duration of outages have increased. The immediate
focus of distribution investments, supported under Part A of the proposed Project, is on the rapid
installation of cost-effective, fairly low-cost and fast measures and provision of spares to reverse
the deterioration of the system, while at the same time preparing and implementing the
conventional reinforcement investments (additional transformers at substations, voltage
upgrading, new feeders), which will take longer to commission. The composition of the capital
investment program is discussed in Annex 3.1. Its linkage to distribution privatization is
discussed in Annex 2.3. The investment program also includes reform expenditure, which is to be
capitalized and its cost recovered through future tariffs.
Finances
11.   Historical Performance. A summary of the performance of OSEB, GRIDCO's and
OHPC's predecessor organization, for the last six years beginning FY90, including OSEB's
income statement, sources and application of funds, and balance sheet, is provided in Annex 2. 1.
12.   Valuation and Transfer of Assets. Under Orissa's reform program, the power facilities
previously owned by OSEB and the Orissa government have been transferred to GRIDCO and
OHPC. Annex 2.1 shows how the assets and liabilities have been split between the new owners.
This has been accomplished by the Orissa government first taking over all assets and liabilities of



Annex 2.5
Page 5 of 11
OSEB and then transferring these to the new owners. GRIDCO is not only taking over all the
transmission and distribution assets but also the unpaid electricity and other receivables together
with the related provision for bad and doubtful debts. The Orissa government has also agreed to
revalue the fixed assets by about 200% for GRIDCO and about 300% for OHPC before
transferring these to the new companies. This is a path-breaking decision since it is the first
occasion where an SEB has been permitted to revalue its fixed assets. This will enable the state
government to realize a more realistic value for its past investments at the time of privatization. It
will also help the sector, to provide more self-financing for new investments, due to the higher
depreciation which the new owners can recover on the revalued fixed assets. This will help
eliminate GRIDCO's and OHPC's dependence on budgetary support from the Orissa government.
However, the state government has only agreed to revalue these assets provided no major,
immediate additional tariff adjustment is sought since this could threaten the successful
implementation of the reform program. This has been achieved by transferring the revaluation
related liabilities as Zero Coupon partially convertible bond, which mitigates the burden of interest
in the initial years. The impact of the revaluation of fixed assets on GRIDCO's tariffs is shown in
Attachment 4.
13.   Revaluation will increase the value of fixed assets by Rs 11.2 billion. Maintenance stocks
of OSEB will be valued down from Rs 656 million to Rs 150 million which is considered as usable
stores; and receivables valued down from Rs 5,857 million to Rs 1468 million (net of provisions
amounting to Rs 3,937 million). The Orissa government will transfer fixed assets to GRIDCO
with a depreciated replacement cost of about Rs 19.5 billion and work-in-progress of Rs 1.3
billion. Rather than establishing a revaluation of assets reserve to hold the increase in net fixed
assets arising from the revaluation, as adjusted by downward valuation of stocks and receivables,
the government has agreed instead to accept a partially convertible bond. The Orissa government
will receive Rs 4.0 billion in the form of" Partially Convertible Bonds" from GRIDCO,
and Rs 2.5 billion as share capital. In addition, government loans for Rs 732 million have been
converted into equity. OSEB also has unfunded liabilities, currently estimated at Rs 1.5 billion,
for pension and other terminal benefits of its staff, who will now be transferred to the new
companies. GRIDCO shall adjust it against revaluation amount and issue a partially convertible
bond, to Employee's Pension Trust Fund. The bonds will have a fifteen-year maturity and will be
interest free for the first five years, and then, pay interest at 13% p.a. till maturity. Half of the
face value of the bonds issued to GOO will be converted to share capital in three equal
installments in the sixth, eighth, and tenth years. The bond issued to the Employee's Pension
Fund will be redeemable in ten equal annual installments from year 6 through 15 but the holder
will have the option, to be exercised as and when the installment falls dues, to convert it into
equity. Reform expenditures being financed by ODA will be passed on by the state government to
GRIDCO and form part of the Orissa government's equity and loans. Other existing loans such
as those from PFC, REC, IDBI and LIC will be transferred to GRIDCO.
14.   GRIDCO 's Future Finances. GRIDCO's opening balance sheet has been prepared using
figures based on the arrangements described above. Its projected financial statements are
provided in Attachment 2. Attachment 3 gives the related assumptions which were used to
prepare the forecasts. GRIDCO's forecast financial performance for the period FY97-2003 is
summarized in Table 1.



Annex 2.5
Page 6 of 11
15.    GRIDCO's financial indicators have been chosen with the objective of increasing its level
of self-financing so as to reduce its dependence on the Orissa government's budgetary support
and to enhance its ability to access funds from capital markets on reasonable terms. It was
concluded that the Bank's traditional financial performance measures for typical state-owned
power utilities, based on a mninimum rate of return on revalued net fixed assets or a minimum level
of self-financing were not suitable. The rate of return approach could not be used because, in
India, there is no generally accepted method of undertaking annual revaluation of fixed assets.
The self-financing measure was also judged unsuitable because GRIDCO is expected to reduce its
future investment requirements quite sharply as it progressively privatizes its distribution
functions. Accordingly, a suitable measure of market returns on investment which would be
linked to the cost of capital was needed. The measure which best meets this description is a
target rate of return on capital base (equity plus reserves used in the business). As discussed in
Annex 2.3, India has adopted a target of 16% as the benchmark allowable return on equity
investments for private power generation projects, (to be adopted for OHIPC, Annex 2.4), and a
comparable return on capital base target on licensees, is to be adopted for GRIDCO.
Table 1: GRIDCO's Financial Indicators
Fiscal Year Ending March 31          1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Net Fixed Assets (Rs. million)      19,273   20,640   23,418   26,931   30,582   33,642   36,346
Total Operating Revenue (Rs. million)    14,015   18,699   23,495   28,411   32,461   39,021   43,304
Average Tariff (Rs./kWh)              207      244      242      252     266      302      316
IncreaseinTariff-%                    16.0    18.1    -0.6       3.8      5.5    13.7       4.5
Net Income (Rs. million)            -1,056     490      996    1,041    1,095    1,285    1,364
Return on Revalued Net Fixed Assets
before Interest (%)                   -1.3      8.8    13.1    13.7    13.8    16.1    15.8
Return on Equity (%)                  neg.      10       16       16       16      16       16
Self Financing Ratio(%)                -19      20       29       27      31       35       37
Debt to Equity Ratio                   2.4      2.2     2.1      2.4      2.5      2.4      2.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratio            0.9      1.7     1.8      1.7      1.6      1.6      1.6
Receivables (days)                     60       60       60       60      60       60       60
Payable (days)                         102      73       60       60      60       60       60
16.    At negotiations agreement was reached that GRIDCO will take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the level and structure of its tariffs) and conduct its
operations and affairs in such manner as to achieve: (1) in FY97, revenues from all sources
related to operations and net non-operations income sufficient to cover all expenses related to
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes, payments in lieu of taxes, and
interest and other charges on debt; and (2) in fiscal 1998 a rate of return on its capital base not
less than 10 percent and each subsequent fiscal year such rate as may be permissible under the
Electricity Act or prescribed by the Regulatory Commission, whichever is higher. Returns
allowed by the Regulator under the new regulatory regime would be subject to performance
standards as regulated by the Regulator or initially laid down in the lease contracts (Annex 2.3).



Annex 2.5
Page 7 of 11
17.   GRIDCO will incur a loss in FY97, the first year after OSEB restructuring. It would
cover its cash operating costs, but not full depreciation. This is because of additional cost of
hydro power for about Rs 600 million due to higher repair and maintenance expenditure, higher
depreciation based on revalued assets, and higher return; and additional cost of about Rs 1,000
million due to its own higher repair and maintenance expenditure and its own higher depreciation
based on revalued assets. It is considered desirable that past practice of under maintenance of
assets is set right in the new commercial environment in which the companies are expected to
operate after restructuring. ODA is proposing to provide grant funding (to be transferred to
GRIDCO as equity) to meet expenditure on repair and maintenance for the first year of
GRIDCO's operation.
18.   From FY98 GRIDCO is expected to earn returns in line with the agreed financial
objectives. This would be possible if the expected tariff increase of about 16%, effective July 96,
is approved for FY97. A further increase of about 18% would also be needed in FY98, to fully
cover its operating costs including interest expenses. These projected tariff increases would be
sufficient to enable GRIDCO to substantially increase its returns after interest on historical net
fixed assets in FY98, from statutory 3% to 9% (based on the existing provisions of the Electricity
Supply Act). Thereafter, assuming the 16% return on equity is achieved each year, returns would
continue to be much higher compared to the historical performance of OSEB. It would also
represent much better performance than any other SEB in India has recorded in recent years.
Tariff increases assumed from FY99 onwards to achieve a return on equity of not less than 16% --
no increase in FY99, 4 % in FY2000 and 5.5% in FY2001 -- are considered reasonable. This is
however predicated on consistent reduction in T&D losses, from estimated 39.5% for FY97 to
22.7% by FY2001- a reduction of about 17% points in a period of five years. This is considered
feasible with privatization of distribution; improvement in metering being supported under the
project; improvement in billing and collection owing to institutional development supported
under the project; and increased accountability of the companies to the Regulator. At
negotiations agreement was reached that GRIDCO will from fiscal 1998 not incur any debt,
unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of GRIDCO show that the
estimated net revenues of GRIDCO for each financial year during the term of the debt to be
incurred would be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of GRIDCO in such
year on all debt of GRIDCO, including the debt to be incurred. GRIDCO's financial projections
show that it should be able to meet the 1.5 times target comfortably from FY98.
19.   Working Capital. Working capital requirements in FY97 will be significant because the
volume of electricity receivables will increase due to higher sales (OPGC's lb Units 1-2 will have
been commissioned); increase in level of maintenance stocks since only about Rs 150 million out
of Rs 656 million worth of stocks are estimated to be in usable condition. ODA's proposed sector
grant will finance increase in level of operations and maintenance inventory for the first three
years. This is designed to ensure availability of O&M inventory for satisfactory maintenance of
the system. Even though volume of receivables is expected to go up due to higher level of sales,
in relative terms the level of unpaid electricity accounts is expected to reduce from 75 days to
about 60 days equivalent. In addition, reductions in accounts payables for power purchased,
(through better financial discipline by GRIDCO), are expected to come down in two years to
equivalent of 60 days, compared to about 161 days estimated for OSEB in FY96.



Annex 2.5
Page 8 of II
20.   Billing and Collection. GRIDCO's ability to self-finance its investment program and meet
its debt service obligations depends on collecting its bills on time. OSEB has initiated a program
to improve its electricity metering through the procurement of static meters for sub-stations and
high tension consumers under Credit 1356-IN. In addition, under the proposed loan, GRIDCO
will purchase 700,000 energy meters for other consumers, which are expected to be installed over
two years. After the installation of these meters and improvements to billing and collection
systems with the support of the consultants providing institution building technical assistance, it is
expected that the metering, billing, and collection system will be more effective. As a matter of
prudent financial policy GRIDCO will make a provision for bad and doubtful debts of at least
15% of incremental receivables every year. This is considered adequate.
21.   At negotiations agreement was reached that GRIDCO would maintain in FY97 and
thereafter accounts receivable at a level not exceeding two months average billing, and accounts
payable not exceeding two months equivalent of purchases. OSEB's gross receivables for sale of
power are estimated to be Rs. 5,587 million at the end of fiscal 96, against which OSEB shall
have provision of Rs. 3,997 million for uncollectible receivables. The level of provision made by
OSEB does not necessarily represent the level of uncollectibles but is established to bring net
receivables to a level equivalent to two months sales, before transferring it to GRIDCO. To
ensure that GRIDCO will maintain its collection efficiency at an acceptable level it has been
agreed that GRIDCO will reflect in its accounts the provision for uncollectible receivables
transferred to it from OSEB, distinctly from from any provision for uncollectibles that it may
create in the future. To establish GRIDCO's compliance with the accounts receivables covenant
its receivables will be reduced only by the amount of the April 1,1996 provision ( net of future
write-offs if any against the April 1,996 transfer provision). In addition to the monitoring of the
receivables covenant, implementation of improvements to the billing and collection system will be
closely followed up by Bank supervision missions and through regular progress reports by
GRIDCO to the Bank.
22.   Financing Plan. GRIDCO's detailed financing plan is provided in Attachment I to
Annex 2.3. A summary is given in Table 2. The investment program includes reform
expenditures, which will be capitalized and recovered through future tariffs. The plan shows
investments of about US$1.0 billion to be financed: 24% by internal cash generation, 2% from
equity and other contributions by the Orissa government, 8% by ODA grant to be transferred
partly as equity and partly as grant to GRIDCO, and 66% by borrowing including the proposed
Bank loan of US$350 million which accounts for 35% of proposed investment program during
the period FY97 to FY2003. From LIC, IDBI, and other financiers, OSEB has in the past
received annually about Rs 1,000 million. With better financial performance GRIDCO should be
able to raise higher amounts. In the financing plan loans of about Rs 4,900 million ( annual
average Rs 1000 million) in the first five years have been assumed, which is no higher than the
levels of financing of Orissa power sector by these institutions in the past and therefore can be
considered reasonable. It should be noted that should GRIDCO need more funds in the initial
years (either due to an increase in the investment requirements and/or inability of some of the
other financiers to provide the envisaged funds), GRIDCO will be able to approach e.g. ADB,
which has indicated its willingness to consider a loan to help finance GRIDCO's future
investments. At negotiations agreement was reached that GRIDCO will furnish by December 31



Annex 2.5
Page 9 of 11
each year, its 5-year financial projections, including its investment program and financing plan, for
the Bank's review and comments.
23.   Future Orissa Government/GRIDCO Financial Flows. Since GRIDCO's tariffs are set at
a level which not only covers its operating costs but also earn an adequate return on its equity,
GRIDCO's dependence on the state government for subsidizing its operating costs is eliminated;
and also its dependence on the Orissa government for meeting its investment needs is significantly
reduced. Projected loans from the Orissa government to GRIDCO and OHPC are much below
the state government's projected earnings from these entities by way of interest, electricity duties
and dividends. This is demonstrated in Annex 5.2. The flow of resources from the government to
the sector will be reversed within one year and the sector shall become a net generator of revenue
for the state government instead of being a burden on its budget.



Annex 2.5
Page 10oflI
Table 2: GREDCO's Financine Plan (FY97-2003)
Rs. Million   US$ MiNion
SOURCES OF FUNDS
FUNDS FROM INTERNAL SOURCES                            39,901          928
Less Increase in Working Capital (excl. increase   3,093            81
n O&M stocks)
Less Interest Charged to Operations               15,268           353
Less Repayment of Loans                            8,586           202
Less Dividend                                      3,138            70
TOTAL FUNDS FROM INTERNAL SOURCES                       9.816          222        23.7
ODA grant funds transferred as GOO equity to            2,260           63          5
GRIDCO 1/
ODA grant funds transferred as GOO grant to             1,265            34         3
GRIDCO
BORROWINGS
World Bank                                        14,419           350       34.9
State Government                                     960            26        2.3
ADB                                                2,025            57        4.9
Others                                            10,605           246       25.6
TOTAL BORROWINGS                                  28.008           678       67.7
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                41,349           997       100.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                                    35,370           840        84.3
Interest During Construction                           2,060            49         4.9
Reform expenses                                        2,754            74        7.4
Repair & maintenance expenditure met from ODA            400             12        1.2
grant
Increase in maintenance inventory                        765            22         2.2
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                   41.348           997       100.0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                            41,348           997      100.0
1/ Equity contribution through revaluation assets, and conversion of revaluation bonds is excludled.
24.   Accounting, Budgets and Aud&t. GRIDCO and OBPC will maintain their accounts in
accordance with the commercial accounting system defined in the Companies Act. Their
accounting systems will also have to take into account the requirements of the Electricity (Supply)
Act of 1948. The commercial accounting system, formerly used by OSEB, is capable of



Annex 2.5
Page 11 of 11
providing information required to meet the statutory requirements under the Companies Act.
However deficiencies in areas such as, maintenance of the assets register and some other internal
control measures, have been noticed in the implementation of the system. The institution building
technical assistance will help GRIDCO and OHPC modify and implement financial, accounting
and auditing systems and procedures and review accounting policies regarding income
recognition, asset classification, and provisioning etc. Until the accounting and internal control
systems are modified and implemented, GRIDCO and OHPC shall continue to maintain their
accounts and audit as per the prevailing OSEB system. Intemal audit will also be refined for
providing to the management adequate internal controls. In accordance with company law
requirements GRIDCO and OHPC will engage extemal chartered accountants to audit their
financial accounts. The proposed arrangements for the development of accounting, internal audit
and intemal control systems are considered satisfactory. At negotiations agreement was reached
that GRIDCO will from FY97: (a) have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) firnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request. For FY97, GRIDCO's and OHPC's auditors would
be required to provide the following additional information: (a) their audit plan for the Bank's
review and comment; (b) a management letter summarizing any significant matters that have
arisen during the conduct of the audit; and (c) a description of any accounting practices being
followed by OHPC and GRIDCO that are inconsistent with Intemational Accounting Standards
and their effect on the financial statements.



INDIA                                                                Annex 2.5
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                     Attahment 1
GRID CORPORATION OF INDIA
GRIDCO Board|
I Chiman  |I                       H  
Director              _!
Corporae Planning & Divestiture
Corporate Relations
Director           Director         Commercial Director           Corporate                                     D=rector
Distribution     Transmission    (Power, Procurement &    Chief Engineer                 uFinnce               Hunan Resources |           tomntion Technology
Systems Operations)
General Ma                                   Manager Load                                 ManagerFinancia           Manager HRPicy
N  Despatch Centre                                 Accouning            Procedures, Codes, Job
_General Manager, NE                                                                                                 Evduation AppraIsai&
Zone                              _    Power ProcurerSysbm  Security
General 4aaui^                   Manageroding and Financial 4   |                                                        Manager Ma_grHEogneee)
Technical Mager,                                                    Policy, Standards      Corporate FlnanK          Establishmdent and
Dktribution_ South Region                                         Procedures &                                      Manager/Treasrer
H Manager Comrnercial     |         9 <Manager                                                    Pension and|      Manager IR & Discpine
-F Manager Distribution
I Finance and Aggat               m  ERain     l|                                                                          Mnge                  H      e* 
Coordh~ ~    ~ ~ N tor    Io|                                Manae           |     CentralStores   | iMerPbnning,{
Coordinator                                                                                 Cnrle
Central Zone             Technical Manager7                       EnvironmeCl                                      Tn                           Ma
Transmision                        ProtedonAsurance                                                                   Ma
RegubLaton & Tariff          Teecm  Managerl                                                                                                        Op
5    dMangr   |j                           Mngr         11Ocp                                       -
IT_  Fin
mVisestridcooSxs



Annex 2.5
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA
INCOME STATEMENT
(Rs. MIliolJn
FY ending March 31                                       FY 97      FY 98       FY 99      FY 00       FY 01       FY 02      FY 03
Energy available for sale (GWh)                           9.785      10,902     12,726      13,902     14,809      15.560      16,342
T&D Losses (%)                                             39.5        34.8       29.2        24.3       22.7        21.7        20.6
T&D Losses (GWh)                                          3,861      3,798       3,721      3,374       3,367       3,373      3,366
Electricty Sales (GWh)                                    5,924      7,103       9,004      10,528     11,442      12,187     12,976
Operating Revenues:
Revenue frorn Sale of Electncity+ED                    13,618      18,270     23,033      27,917     31,935      38,464     42,713
Other incomre                                             397        429         462        495         526        568         591
ODA grant for R&M expenses                                  0          0           0          0           0          0           0
Total Operating Revenues                               14,015      18,699     23,495     28,411      32,461      39,021     43,304
Operating Expenses:
Cost of Power Purchase                                  9,174      11,589     14,728      18,137     20,437      24.638     27,555
Operation and Maintenance:
Repairs and Mainlenance                                601         722        918        1,163      1,433       1.698      1.966
Employee costs                                        2,013      2,217       2,430      2,651       2,873       3,103      3,351
Acdninistrative and General Expenses                    161        174         188        201         214        226         240
ProvisionforBad&DoubtfulDebts                             83         126         112        193         161        265         171
Other Expenses                                              9          9          10         11          12         12          13
Deferred Revenue Expendcure ChargedJ off                   0           0          0           0        272         272         272
Electricity Duty payable                                 731         876       1,111      1,299       1,412       1,504      1,601
Depreciation                                            1,585      1,673       1,880      2,198       2,588      3,015       3,429
Total Operating expenses                               14,357     17,387      21.377     25,852      29,401     34,732      38,599
Less Expenses capitaloDd                                 152         320        449         491        493         445        432
Operating Income before Interst                            -190      1.633       2.567      3,049       3,553      4.734       5,138
Interest Chargeable to Revenue                             866        1,143      1,571      2,009       2,457      3,449       3,773
Profit before Tax                                        -1,056        490        996       1,041       1 095      1,285       1,364
Less Provision for Tax                                       0           0          0           0          0           0           0
Net Income                                               -1,066        490        996       1,041       1,095      1,285       1,364
DMidend                                                      0           0          0         758        758         758        864
Transfer to Reserves                                     -1,056        490        996         283        338         528        500
Average Tariff (PsRWh)                                      207        244        242         252        266         302         316
Average revenue (Ps/kWh)                                    224        251        249         258        271         308         321
Average cost of supply (Ps RkWh)                            242        244        238         248        262         297         311
% Increase in Tariff                                       16.0       18.1        -0.6        3.8         5.5        13.7        4 5
Operating Ratio (%)                                         101         91         89          89         89          88          88
Net Income                                               -1,056        490        996        1.041      1,096       1,285      1,364
RetumonRevaluedNetFixedAssetsbeforeinterest(%)             -1.3        8.8        13.1        137        138         16.1       15.8
Return on Equity (%)                                       neg.        100        16.0       16.0        16.0        160        16.0



Annex 2.5
Attachrmert 2
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GRID CORPORATION OF ORISA
SOURCES AND APPUCATION OF FUNDS
(Rs. Milion)
FYending Mamh31                                   FY97       FY39       FY99      FY00       FY01       FY02      FY03
Soumes of Funds
Funds from internal sources                       1.478     3.432      4,559     5U441      6,574      8,286     9,010
Equity
Conversion of Partially Convertie Bond             0          0         0          0          0       667          0
ODA funds for reform                             400       810        285          0          0         0          0
ODA funds for maintenance stocks                 601        122        43          0          0         0          0
Capial Receipts                                    335        636       417        103        111        89         97
Borrowings
Stale Government                                 175        325       385         75          0         0          0
IBRD                                             675      2,025      2.425     3,670      3,325      2,300         0
PFC/ADB/ODA                                     1,000       800       225          0          0       500        500
Others                                          1.060       760      1,056      1175      1,002      1,527      3,026
Zero Coupon Convertible Bond                       0          0         0          0          0         0          0
Total Borrowings                               2,909      3,909      4.090     4.920      4.327      4.327     3,526
Total Sources                                       5.723     8,908      9,393     10,464    11,011     13,368     12,633
Applicaton of Funds
Investment
Capital Investment                              1,864     4,389      5,123     6,083      5,977      6.113     5,518
Interest duinng Construction                     1 U       287        297        330       334        344        324
Total lnvestment                               2,008      4,676      5,420     6,413      6,311      6,457      5,B42
Deferred Revenue Expenditure( Reform)              525      1,250       850        100         30         0          0
Debt Service
Amortizationofloansandbonds                      723        859       935      1,141      1.338      1.546      1,745
Conversion of loan to equity                       0          0         0          0         0          0          0
Interest charged to operatiorn                   866      1.143      1.571     2,009      2,457      3.449     37M
redemption/ Conversion of bond to equily           0          0          0         0          0        817       150
Total Debt Service                              1,589     2,002      2,506      3,149     3,795      5.811      5,668
Dividend on Share Capfbl                             0          0         0        758        758       758        864
Increase in Workrg Capital
Increasem nStocks                                604       329        103         89       *67        143         8s
Increase in Othr Working Capital                 9"        651        514        -45       184        199        173
Totalincreasein WorkingCapital                 1,602       980        617         44        117       342        259
Total Applicatlons                                  5,723     8,908      9,393     10,464    11,011     13,368     12,633
Self Financing Ratio (%)                              -19        20        29         27         31        35         37
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                           0.9       1.7        1.8        1.7       1.6        1.6        1.6



Annex 2.5
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA
BALANCE SHEET
(Rs. Million)
FY ending Marh 31                               FY 97      FY 97      FY 98     FY 99      FY 00      FY 01     FY 02      FY 03
Opening
ASSETS
Frxed Assets
Gross Block
Wthout Revaluation                         12,008     13,289    16,328     20,986    26,697     32,937     39,012    45,145
Add Revaluation anount                     11,200     11,200    11,200     11,200    11,200     11,200     11,200    11,200
Less: Depreciation                            3,630     5,215      6,888      8,768    10,966     13,555     16,569    19,999
Net Fixed Assets                             19,578     19,273    20,640     23,418    26,931     30.582     33,642    36.346
CapRal Works in Progress                        1,340     2,067      3,703      4,465     5.167      5.238      5,620     5.329
Deferred revenue ependtRura                        0        525      1.774      2,624     2,724      2.481      2,209     1,936
Total Fixed Assets                             20,918    21,865     26,118     30,507    34,822     38,302     41,472    43,612
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                         308        308       308        308        307       307        307        309
Inventory                                      150        754      1,083      1.186     1,275      1,208      1,351     1,437
Recewables                                    1,468     1,937      2,651     3,283      3,862      4,344     5,137      5,649
Other Receivables                             1,115     1.213      1,312      1,412     1,511      1,608      1,704     1,807
Total Current Assets                            3,041     4,212      5,353     6,189      6,956      7,466     8,500      9,202
TOTAL ASSETS                                     23,958    26,077     31,471     36,696    41,778     45,768    49,971     52,814
LIABILITIES
Net Worth
Share Capital                                 3,262     3,477      4,409     4,736      4,736      4.736     5.403      5,403
Retainedearnings                               270          0       490      1,486      1.769      2,106     2,634      3,134
Capital Reeoqs                                1,801     2,136      2,771      3,188     3,291      3,401     3,490      3,588
Other reserves                                1,070     1,070      1,070      1,070     1,070      1,070      1,070     1,070
Total Net Worth                                 6,403     6,683      8,740     10,480    10,866     11,314    12,597     13,194
Lorg Term Debt
State Governrment                                0        175       500        885        960       943        893       893
IBRD                                             0        675      2,699     5,124      8,794     12,051    14,081     14,081
PFCIADB/ODA                                   1,012     1,812      2,412     2,337      1.957      1,554     1,840      2,340
Partially Convertible Bond                    4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000      4,000     4,000      3,334     3,334
Bond issued to Pension Trust                  1,500     1,500      1,500     1,500      1.500      1,500     1,350      1,200
Others                                        4,977     5,378      5,403     5,618      5,835      5,778     6,094      9,120
CurrentMaturitiessofDebt                       723        859       935       1,141     1,338      1,546     1,745         0
Total Long Term Debt                           12,212    14,399     17,449    20,604     24,383     27,372    29,337     30,968
Current Liabilities
Accounts Pay"ble                              4,655     4,277      4,524     4,804      5,660      6,144     7,020      7,543
Working Capital Borrowings                       0          0         0          0          0         0          0          0
Other Current Liabiliies                       688        718       758        808        868       938      1,018      1,108
Total Current Liabilities                       5,344     4,996      5,283     5,613      6,529      7,083     8,039      8,652
TOTAL LIABILMES                                  23,958    26,077     31,471    36,696     41,778     45,769    49,973     52,816
Debt/Net Worth Ratio                                          2.4        2.2       2.1        2.4        2 5       2.4        2.6
Debt (exd. bonds)/Net Worth ratio                             1.4        1.4       1.5        1 8        2.0       2.0        2.2
Accounts Recsivables (number of days)                          60        60         60         60        60         60         60
Accounts Payables (number of days)                            102        73         60         60        60         60         60



Annex 2.5
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Operating Statement
I .    Energy Availability: Power purchases are projected from OHPC, OPGC, NTPC and
other current suppliers of power to Orissa based on (a) firm power estimates for hydro
generation, (b) Orissa's share from central sector plants, and (c) contracted generation from
OPGC. OPGC's units shall be fully operational in FY 97. Talcher plant now sold to NTPC is
expected to increase power generation in a phased improvement of PLF to 62% in five years.
GRIDCO will be able to draw power from first unit (210 MW) of AES's lb stations from FY
2000 and the second unit (210 MW) from FY 2001. Power from Upper Indravati (600 MW) shall
be available from FY 2001; from the first unit of a new 500 MW private Thermal generation from
FY 2002; and second unit from FY 2003.
2.    T&D Losses: In the past T&D losses have been understated and average billed revenue
from some consumer categories, especially, domestic, commercial and LT industry, have been
lower than even the minimum tariff. In the absence of any quantitative/technical measurement of
losses, the estimates provided by Orissa's consultants (Monenco: Load Forecast Report - Power
System Planning in Orissa) are used.
3.    Electricity Sales: The mix of estimated electricity sales to the various categories of
consumers in FY 1996 is maintained while projecting the category-wise sales for FY 97. In
subsequent years, estimates of sales provided by Orissa's consultants (MIS Monenco) are used.
Income Statement
4.    Revenue and Tariffs: Tariffs increased by about 17% effective November 1995. A
further increase of about 16% on an annual basis is projected from July 96 for GRlDCO to meet
its cash operating costs. For FY 98 a 18% increase in tariff is assumed for achieving the financial
targets of 20% SFR and 10% return on equity. Tariffs are thereafter set to obtain a minimum of
16% return on equity and 25% SFR.
5.    Other Income: This comprises of interest income on short term investment of surplus
cash; advances to suppliers; and delayed payment charges.



Annex 2.5
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 5
6.    Cost of Power Purchase: Contracted or current average rates have been used as the base.
It is assumed that GRIDCO will dispatch power first from plants for which it has a "take-or-pay"
contract (i.e. AES, OPGC and NTPC (Talcher) and then in order of average tariff For hydro
plants, 10% and for thermal plants 25% of the base cost is assumed to be variable. This variable
component is assumed to increase by the average inflation for the year.
7.    Operation and Maintenance: These comprise of: a) repair and maintenance cost of 5% of
gross fixed assets including new investments (hence these expenses are not adjusted for inflation)
as compared to an inadequate level of about 3-3.5% of Gross fixed assets in the past. In FY97 a
quantum increase in repair & maintenance ( Rs. 601 million compared to about Rs 160 million in
FY96) is provided for; b) Employee, Administration and general expenses are adjusted for
inflation and annual salary increments.
8.    Other Expenses: Projected on basis of past trend of expenses of OSEB.
9.    Electricity Duty: Projected at the existing rate of 12.34 paise/kWh. However, this being
a tax collection on behalf of the State Government, it does not impact on the finances of
GRIDCO.
10.   Depreciation: The average depreciation for GRIDCO is taken at 6.83% on revalued
gross fixed assets in use for the full year.
11.   Interest Charges: Interest and repayment terms for various loans are as given below:
Le~~adea~~~   M&tnity N.i
t::'#:::,':'''''','...........'-'','      ..........
GOO                 15 years                        5 years             9.8-13%
IBRD                15 years                        5 years             13%
PFC/ADB/ODA         7-15 years                       2-5 years          15-16.8%
Others              10 years                                            12-14%
12.   Interest and Expenses Capitalized: Interest on long term loans and expenses incurred
prior to commissioning of assets are capitalized and funded through long term sources.
13.   Taxes: No tax liability is assumed since the depreciation allowable under the Income Tax
Act 1961, exceeds the taxable income. In addition, depreciation on which tax deduction is not
claimed can be carried forward for setting-off against taxable income in future years.
14.   Dividend on Share Capital: GRIDCO is expected to pay dividends ftom FY 2000
onwards at the rate of 16% on paid-up capital every year.



Annex 2.5
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 5
Balance Sheet
15.   Revaluation of Fixed Assets: The fixed assets are revalued at depreciated replacement
cost. Out of Rs 11,200 million, the amount of revaluation, plus Rs 740 million in the restructuring
account, reduced by Rs 3,012 million of subsidy due from GOO, Rs 506 million for obsolete
stocks, and Rs 392 million additional provision for receivables, the net addition to assets on
account of revaluation is Rs 8,030 million. Against this amount GRIDCO has issued partially
convertible bond of Rs 4,000 million and share capital of Rs 2,530 million to GOO. OSEB has
unfunded terminal benefit liabilities, currently estimated at Rs 1,500 million, to employees
transferred to GRIDCO. Instead of reducing the value of assets acquired from GOO and
assuming terminal benefit obligation as a contingent liability (off-balance sheet) to be met as and
when these arise, GRIDCO has decided to reflect assets at its full value and issue partially
convertible bond of Rs 1,500 million to Employees Trust Fund .
16.   Partially Convertible Bonds: Bonds of value Rs 5,500 million will be issued on account
of revaluation cost of the assets transferred to GRIDCO. Of these bonds, Rs 1,500 million worth
of bonds corresponding to OSEB's liability on account of unfunded employee terminal benefits,
will be issued to an employee trust fund. This will be redeemed in ten equal annual installments
from year 6 through 15. It will not carry any interest for first five years but earn 13% from year 6
onwards till redemption. For the balance amount of Rs 4,000 million GRIDCO shall issue a bond
to GOO. These bonds will comprise of two parts: Part A 50%, will be converted to equity, at the
option of the holder, in three equal installments, in the 6th, 8th and 10th years. Part B 50%, shall
remain a debenture which shall attract interest at 13% per annum until redemption. The bond
does not carry any interest for the first five years.
17.   Equity: The initial equity of Rs 3,262 million consists of: a) conversion of GOO loans of
Rs 732 million, and b) issue of equity of Rs 2,530 million to GOO on account of part of
revaluation of assets. Additions in future years are on account of grants from ODA which are
routed through GOO as equity to GRIDCO and part conversion of partially convertible Bonds.
18.   Consumer Contributions: Assumed to increase at 10% per annum.
19.  Investment: Investment program is based on requirements estimated by GRIDCO's
consultants.
20.   Stocks: O&M stocks necessary for facilitating adequate maintenance and immediate
replacement of damaged equipment are projected to be Rs 790 million. These stocks will be built
up during FY 1997-99 and will be funded by a grant from ODA which will be made available to
GRIDCO by GOO as equity. It is estimated that, of the current inventory of Rs 656 million
available with OSEB, inventory worth only about Rs 150 is in usable condition and the balance is
either obsolete or unusable.



Annex 2.5
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 5
21.   Deferred Revenue Expenditure: Expenditure incurred on sector reforms comprises of
expenditure on staff retraining and redeployment, voluntary retirement scheme, project
preparation, environmental studies, DSM studies, and planning studies. This expenditure is
written-off in ten equal installments from FY 2001 onwards.
22.   Receivables for Sale of Power: Projected as equivalent to 60 days of sales.
23.   Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts: Maintained at a level equal to 15% of gross
receivables for the first three years and 25% thereafter.
24.   Inventories: Capital inventories are projected as equivalent to 30 days consumption of
capital stores. Consumable stores are projected as equivalent to 12 months of repair and
maintenance expenditure for the first three years, 9 months in FY 2000 and from FY 2001
onwards to 6 months consumption levels.
25.   Payables: (a) purchase of capital stores: 30 days equivalent of purchases of capital
supplies; (b) repairs and maintenance supplies: 40 days equivalent of consumption of O&M
stores; and (c) purchase of power: from FY 99 onwards 60 days equivalent of power purchase
costs.
26.   Current Maturities of Debt: Amount of repayment of loans falling due in the following
year.
Definitions of Financial parameters
27.   Return on Revalued Net Fixed Assets: Net income divided by the net fixed revalued assets
at the beginning of the year reduced by the contribution from consumers
28.   Return on Equity: Net income divided by the equity and retained earnings used in the
business of the company.
29.   Self Financing Ratio: Sum of gross revenues from all sources related to GRIDCO's
operations for the year, consumer deposits, cash consumer contributions in aid of construction,
reductions in non-cash working capital less the sum of all expenses related to GRIDCO's
operations for the year excluding depreciation and other non-cash operating charges, interest and
other charges on debt, repayment of loans, all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash
dividends and other cash distribution of surplus, divided by the average capital investment for the
previous, current and following years.
30.   Debt Service Coverage Ratio: Net income before interest and depreciation divided by the
interest charged to operations and repayments due during the year.
31.   Debt to Net Worth Ratio: Total debt from all sources including zero coupon partially
convertible bonds divided by the equity and retained earnings.



Annex 2.5
Attachment 3
Page 5 of 5
32.   Receivable for Sale of Power: Gross receivables as a proportion of total sales of power.
However in the opening balance sheet the receivables are taken as net of provisions for bad and
doubtful debt as per the transfer scheme.
33.   Accounts Payables: Commercial payables for fuel, power, O&M purchases as a
proportion of fuel, power and O&M expenses.



Annex 2.5
Attachment 4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CRtD CORPORATION OF ORISSA
ASSET REVALUATION IMPACT
(Rs. Million)
FY ending March 31                                    FY 97        FY 98        FY 9S         FY 00        FY 01        FY 02        FY 03
1. Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                     12,017       14,449       18.362       23,252       28,666        33.952       39,328
Interest Capdalized                                      144          431          728         1,058         1,391        1.735        2.060
Expenses Capitalized                                    1,127        1,448        1,896        2,387        2.880         3,325        3,757
Asset revaluation                                      11,200       11,200       11,200       11,200       11.200        11,200       11.200
Less Accumulateq Depreciation                          5,215         6,888        8,768       10,966        13,555       16,589       19,999
Depreciation on account of revaluation                765         1,530        2,295        3,060        3.825         4.590        5,355
NelFixedAssets                                         19,273       20,640       23,418       26.931       30.582        33.642       36,346
2. Income (ignoring Interest & depreciation on account of Revaluation)
Incomebeforelnteresl&Depreciation                       1,395        3,306        4.447        5,248        6,141         7,749        8,567
Depreciation                                             820          908         1,115        1.433        1,823         2.250        2,664
Interest Expenses
State Govemment                                          11           44           90           120          125          124           119
Others                                                  998         1,386        1,778        2,219        2,666         3,060        3,389
Less: Interest capitalized                              144          287          297          330           334          344          324
Interestchargedtooperations                              866         1,143        1,571        2,009        2,457         2,840        3,184
3. Bonds issued against Revaluation
Partially convertible bonds issued & outstanding       5,500            0            0            0             0            0            0
Amountconvertedtoequity                                   0            0            0            0             0          817           150
Debt portion of bond                                  5,500        5,500         5500         5,500        5,500        4,684         4,534
Additional cost on account of:                             0            0            0            0             0            0            0
Equity                                                    0            0            0            0             0          131          131
Debt portion of bond                                      0            0            0            0             0          609          589
4. Additional cost due to Revaluation
Additional cost on account of
Depreciation                                            765          765          765          765           765          765          765
Servicing partially convertible bonds                     0            0            0            0             0          740          720
5. Net Additional coats                                  765          765          765          765          765         1,504         1,485
6. Units sold (OWh)                                    5,924        7,103         9,004       10,528       11,442       12,187        12,976
7. Pre-revaluation:
Tariff (Ps/kWh)                                          194          233          234          245          259           290          304
8. Revaluation impact on GRIDCO of:
GRIDCO revaluation (PshkWh)                                7            6            5            4             4            2            1
OHPC revaluation (Ps/kWh)                                  6            5            4            3             3           11           10
Total                                            13            11           8             7            7           12            11
10. Tax Calculation:
Taxableincomebeforerevaluation                          -236        .1,397        2,111        2,474        2,919        3,535         4,029
Income due to revaluation                                765          765          765          765          765         1,504         1.485
Less. Depreciation per lncome Tax                      2,658        3,266         4,197        5.339        6,587        7,802        9,029
Net taxable income                                     -2,128      -1,103        -1,322       -2,100       -2,904       -2,763        -3,515
Carry over of unabsorbeddepreciation                   2,128         3,231        4,553        6,653        9,557       12,320        15.835
Description of Bonds
Bonds Issued to 000.
Rs. 4,000 million. Part A - Rs.2.000 million Non-convertitle, redeemable in 5 equal installments from year 11 to 15.
Part- Rs. 2,000 million converted into equilyin three equal instaltments at the end of year 5,7, and 9
Interest: Part-A. Nilforyearl to5 13%foryears 6 to15 Part-B Nil foyears Ito5 13%onunconvertedportiontillredemption.
Bonds issued to Employe Pension Fund.
Rs 1,500 million. Redeemable in ten equal annual instalments from year 61o 15. Each instalment, when due, convertible into equity at the option of the holder.
Interest: Nil for year 11t 5. 13% Yfoyear 86to 15



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 13
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION REHABILITATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    A Power System Planning study was carried out in Orissa to prepare a new transmission
system master plan for Orissa and to prepare a program for improving the performance of the
distribution system. The results of the load forecast and planning work carried out are being used
to support other activities beyond the immediate scope of this one. These include tariff studies,
preparation of financial projections and review of the justification of planned new generation
projects. On the job training of OSEB (now GRIDCO) engineering staff was also provided.
Computer hardware and software for transmission and distribution system planning was
purchased for use in the study and transferred to OSEB (now GRIDCO). The study comprised
the following key activities:
* Forecast total electricity demand for the state for a fifteen year period 1996-20 10.
Forecasts of individual main substation loads and customer class loads are to be prepared
for a ten year period 1996-2005.
*  Find the most economic generation expansion plan for Orissa. Review the overall
resources balance of the integrated Eastern Region (Bihar, Orissa, Sikkim and West
Bengal).
* Prepare a transmission system master plan for Orissa for the next ten years, 1996-2005.
*  Identify and evaluate measures to bring about a rapid improvement in the capability of the
distribution systems to reduce losses, reduce overloading and improve the voltage.
Define, set priorities for and establish a data collection program to allow longer term
distribution planning to be carried out with confidence.
* Assess OSEB's planning needs and select and obtain appropriate computer hardware and
software for power system planning. Provide on the job training to key OSEB staff in the
use of the hardware and software.
TRANSMISSION
Overview of Orissa 's Transmission System
2.    The transmission system of Orissa consists of 3,935 circuit km of 132 kV, 3,315 circuit
km of 220 kV and 1,058 circuit km of 400 kV lines interconnecting the major generating stations
with the load centers through 5515 MVA of transformer capacity. The 132 kV and 220 kV lines
are owned and operated by OSEB whereas the 400 kV lines are owned and operated by Power



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 13
Grid Corporation of India (POWERGRID). The OSEB system operates in synchronism with
member utilities of the Eastern Region Electricity Board (EREB). In addition to connections to
West Bengal and Bihar, Orissa is connected to parts of the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity
Board system by a 220 kV line from Balimela and a 132 kV line from Machkund hydro plant.
The 220 kV line is used to supply power to Upper Sileru, which is usually operated in isolation
from the rest of the Andhra Pradesh system. The 132 kV line brings power from Machkund to
Vizag and is synchronized with the rest of the Andhra Pradesh system. For this reason the
Machkund generation and part of the Orissa load is operated in isolation from the Orissa system.
The Orissa system is also connected to part of the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board grid by
a 220 kV double circuit line from Budhipadar to Korba. The single circuit Jayanagar-Rengali-
Kolaghat (West Bengal) line connects the Upper Kolab generation located in southwestern Orissa
to Talcher and Rengali generation in the central part of the state and connects the Orissa grid with
West Bengal. The line is designed for 400 kV but the section from Jayanagar to Rengali is
presently operated at 220 kV.
TRANSMISSION PLANNING
3.    All loads were modeled at the 220 or 132 kV buses with the exception of specific major
industrial loads that are connected at 33 kV or 11 kV. Power system studies (load flow, short
circuit and stability studies) were performed to examine the integration of new generation into the
Orissa transmission grid. This was done to help ensure that the grid is capable of delivering
power from the generating plants to the load centers under established criteria. A horizon year
approach to transmission planning was taken. The transmission system in 2010, the last year of
the 1996-20 10 planning period, was examined. The system additions needed to ensure that the
power output of the generation in service in 2010 can be delivered to the load centers under the
set of planning criteria is determined. A study horizon of 2010 was taken since it would lead to
more appropriate conclusions regarding specific new transmission lines and voltage levels. The
horizon year system was examined under a variety of generation and load conditions. If the
transmission system is inadequate, additional transmission system equipment is needed. The
equipment may include new transmission lines, additional compensation or additional terminal
equipment. The objective was to add equipment that minimizes the present worth cost while
meeting transmission design criteria. Costs include investments, operation and maintenance
expenses and the cost of losses.
4.    Based on the insights gained through-investigation of the horizon year, a transmission plan
that builds toward the horizon year is developed. The plan covers the June 1995 system as well
as time slices (2002 and 2007) taken during the fifteen year planning period. A series of studies
were carried out to determine the most suitable alternative to meet the growing demand with two
possible generating conditions: maximum hydro and maximum thermal generation. The voltage
levels available for expansion consist of 132 kV, 220 kV and 400 kV, all voltages presently used
in Orissa. The use of high voltage direct current (HVDC) and 765 kV AC was ruled out since
Orissa has relatively short distances between the generation and load centers. System investment
requirements up to year 2010, showing separately 400 kV and 220 kV lines, 132 kV lines,
transformers and reactors and capacitors to be added, are presented in the study report on
transmission (paras. 34-39).



Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 13
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
5.    This section presents the investment program and schedule for the first years of the
proposed transmission expansion plan, up to 2002, supported under the project. The investment
program is shown for each of the major items considered in section 6. It includes 400 and 220 kV
development, 132 kV development, transformer additions and capacitor and reactor requirements.
400 k V and 220 k V Development
6.    Over the next six years, Orissa needs to add some 530 km (1,070 circuit km) of
transmission lines operating at 400 kV. Table I shows the investment needed for each of the
proposed lines and switchgear. The total investment required is Rs 452 crore.
7.    The 220 kV system additions call for the construction of over 1,000 km (2,026 circuit km)
of transmission lines and several new substations and additions to existing substations. The
investment required for each of the proposed lines and associated switchgear is also shown in
Table 1. The total investment required is Rs 411 crore.
8.    The total cost for the combined 400 and 220 kV transmission is Rs 863 crore (Table 1).
Implementation of all proposed projects should start at the earliest possible time to ensure that in
the future the generation can be delivered reliably to the load centers.
132 kVDevelopment
9.    In addition to the OSEB committed lines, the 132 kV system will require nearly 400 km
(497 circuit km) of transmission additions over the next six years. All of these lines should be
implemented as soon as possible to alleviate the present and expected overloads in the 132 kV
system. Table 2 shows the investment associated with each of the lines and switchgear. The total
investment is Rs 121 crore. The investment shown here does not include the costs associated with
the committed lines but include the costs for the proposed lines, which are require to improve the
distribution system performance (all costs are included in the financial analysis).
Other Substation Equipment
10.   With the expansion of the network and growing loads, several transformers will be
required to connect the different voltage levels in the system. Table 3 shows the investment
required for each of the transformers. The total investment required for transformers and
switching equipment amounts to Rs 331 crore. The timing of transformer additions is dictated by
the load requirements and the commissioning of 400 and 220 kV lines. The transformers shown
in Table 3 should be added by 2002. The above costs do not include costs of committed
transformers nor that of generator transformers. (all costs are included in the financial analysis, the
cost of generator transformers is included in the capital cost of the particular generating station).
11.   Capacitor and reactors are also required by the system to obtain satisfactory system
performance. The investment required for this equipment is shown in Table 4 and amounts to Rs
29 crore. The capacitors are needed by the system as soon as possible to improve the overall



Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 13
voltage profile and system performance. The in-service date of the reactors should coincide with
that of the lines they are associated with.
Summary of Investment Costs
12.   The transmission investment required by 2002 is summarized as follows:
Item                                  Cost
(Rs crore)
400 kV lines                            452.2
220 kV lines                           410.9
132 kV lines                            120.8
Transformers                            331.1
Capacitors and reactors                  28.7
Total                                 1,343.7
DISTRIBUTION STUDY
OVERVIEW OF ORISSA 'S DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
13.   The distribution systems in Orissa are supplied through 132 kV to 33 kV grid substations.
There are fifty 132/33 kV grid supply points within the state. The systems are radial, operating at
33 kV and 11 kV in which 33 kV is used as a subtransmission voltage. Some interconnection
exists between the radial circuits in the more heavily loaded urban areas and those areas
designated for industrial expansion. In many locations both 33 kV and 11 kV systems have been
constructed side by side, particularly in the rural areas where they parallel each other for hundreds
of kilometers. The low voltage systems operate at 400 volts three phase with single phase
customers supplied at 230 volts. In both the urban and rural areas the low voltage systems are
extensive and emanate radially from distribution transformers which range in size up to 500 kVA
and 100 kVA respectively. The system frequency is 50 Hz.
14.   The distribution systems are divided into operational areas called circles. The circles, of
which there are ten, define the electrical boundaries of each of the systems. Each of the circles is
more or less energy autonomous with sufficient grid system capacity to supply the load within the
circle. Some have limited interconnection at 33 kV. Such an interconnection is mainly for
standby purposes and not to supply load on a regular basis.
15.   The distribution system has deteriorated to the point where it can no longer meet its
operational requirements. While the constraints imposed by the shortage of funds have
contributed to its present condition, many tasks particularly those related to maintenance could
have been carried out. The ongoing decline in system performance, signaled by the increased
frequency and duration of outages, could have been less rapid. The overloading of distribution
transformers has become endemic with as many as three thousand reported to be replaced each



Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 13
year, many having failed from overloading. The apparent high level of technical losses is
contributed to not only by the poor power factor but also by some design practices. Many 11 kV
and 33 kV circuits have small conductors that are loaded beyond the optimum level for loss
reduction and control. Other design features, such as the practice of constructing long secondary
circuits in both urban and rural areas supplied from one centrally located transformer, also
contribute to high losses.
System Analysis
16.   Computer hardware and software were purchased under the technical assistance to
provide OSEB with a capability to carry out studies relating to distribution planning,. The
software selected was ABB's CADPAW program, which has load flow, short circuit and motor
starting analysis modules. As part of the training of OSEB counterpart staff in using of
CADPAW, several 33 kV circuits were modeled to show the application of the program. OSEB's
engineers continued with the modeling of the 33 kV system under the guidance of the consultant.
This continued effort has resulted in the completion of the modeling of all the 33 kV feeders and
many 11 kV feeders. The outcome of this work is that a complete picture of the condition of the
33 kV system is available showing circuit load and voltage profiles and losses. The results of the
analysis show that abnormally low voltages, in some instances voltage drops of over 30%, are
experienced in every distribution circle.
Short Term Measures
17.   Several measures to improve system performance that can be quickly carried out were
identified and evaluated. These are
* Increasing distribution transformer capacity
* Installation of capacitors
* Improving feeder and loading arrangements
* Installation of express feeders
Distribution Transformer Capacity
18.   To define transformers that are overloaded and require off loading, the criteria adopted is
that transformers with a peak load of more than 80% would be reduced to a load level of 60%.
Overloaded transformers were identified through load measurements. Over four hundred
transformer load readings were taken. Of these, it was found that 22% of the transformers were
loaded to 80% or more of their rating and 11% were loaded more than 100% of their rating.
Based on the results of the load analysis, estimates were made of the additional transformers
capacity required in each distribution circle based on the criterion previously described. The
investment required to augment the transformer capacity is broken down by circle in Table 5. The
investment includes the additional 11 kV overhead line required to supply the transformers. The
results are summarized as follows:



Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 13
Existing Distribution Transformer Capacity   1,743 MVA
Additional Capacity Required                  500 MVA
Increase in Capacity                           28.7%
Cost of Additions                              80.2 Rs crore
Installation of Capacitors
19.   The benefits to be derived from the installation of capacitors on distribution systems are
well documented. Besides reducing losses, capacitor installations also reduce the feeder and
system peak demand and improve the voltage profile. Table 6 shows the amount of capacitance
to be added in each circle based on typical power factors assumed and the cost. The quantities
have been calculated based on the assumption that the existing load power factor is 0.80 and that
it will be corrected to 0.98. The cost estimate assumes that the switched and unswitched
capacitors will be of equal size. Some 367 MVAR of capacitance is required at a total cost of Rs
91.8 crore. A statewide installation program could be completed in thirty months.
System Rationalization and Load Balancing
Low Voltage Systems
20.   In the development of distribution systems a tendency often arises by which the system
evolves somewhat randomly without regard for the impact on losses and load distribution. This
is particularly true where planning does not have a high priority and reporting systems are not
strictly followed. In such circumstances it is desirable that a rationalization of the system takes
place from time to time. This process cannot be described as an engineering activity but is more a
common sense look at how the system has evolved. It involves the study of single line and
topographical drawings to decide where potential studies can be made to evaluate different
feeding and loading arrangements. It can also be used to decide where potential benefits may lie
by installing express feeders as described below.
21.   Several actual cases were selected for the rationalization of the low voltage (LV) system.
It was demonstrated that simple measures such as relocating the distribution transformer to the
load center or dividing a network supplying a load area into two parts, each supplied by a separate
transformer, could reduce losses significantly. Costs and benefits of the cases analyzed showed
attractive payback periods, sometimes shorter than one year. If these benefits are applied to all
transformers in the system rated at 100 kVA, the present worth of savings from load balancing
could be as high as Rs 280 crore. This assumes that similar problems to those identified in the
case studies exist statewide.
33 kV and 11 kV Systems
22.   The comments made in relation to these voltage levels are based on the systems in
Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Consider first the 33 kV system since some problems that exist at 11
kV are the result of the practices adopted at 33 kV. In both cities and particularly in Cuttack
many 33/1 1 kV substations are badly located to efficiently supply their loads. In Bhubaneswar, at
least 50% of the 33/11 kV substations have been located on the perimeter of the city and supply



Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 13
load through a radius of 1800. This is instead of being located in or near the load center and
allowing feeders to radiate in all directions. In Cuttack this situation is much more acute with
almost all the stations being located on the outer perimeter of the city. It is recognized that in
Cuttack congested streets and limited land availability may have influenced these decisions.
However, by adopting appropriate designs for substations and 33 kV lines, substations could be
relocated to significantly reduce losses.
Benefits from Load Balancing
23.   A further low cost measure that can affect both losses and transformer loading, and which
is not obvious from a review of the system configuration, is the balancing of the feeder loads.
While this activity requires the collection of data, it is a relatively simple process and one that can
produce considerable benefits. Carrying out a load balancing program may well reduce the
number of transformer failures.
24.   Load unbalance readings were taken as part of the data collection process for the review
of the transformer capacity. An estimate of the increase in losses system-wide was arrived at
using the average of the difference in the losses established for the sample of approximately 400
transformers of different sizes. This average increase in the losses was applied to the total losses
established for the LV system in the analysis of the technical losses to provide a kW figure and
from that an estimated annual cost. This annual figure was used to derive a present worth value
of the losses for the next ten year period. The present worth value is estimated to be Rs 59.4
crore and could be saved by load balancing, which is a relatively low cost measure.
Express Feeders
25.   The express feeder is a transporter of energy. It is used to reinforce areas of the system
where the load does not merit the installation of a new substation. These feeders typically use
large cross section conductors (200 mm2 or more) and are constructed on large poles to allow the
use of longer span lengths. They may be used at either 11 kV or 33 kV and are generally more
suited to urban locations rather than rural areas where the topography of the system does not
normally lend itself to their use. They should be routed directly to the area they are intended to
reinforce without tap-offs or other connections, which may integrate them into the system and
reduce their usefulness. To carry out this study, two feeders were selected that had been analyzed
using the CADPAW program for the 11 kV to 33 kV voltage conversion analysis. The results of
this analysis show that the use of express feeders is economic for supporting weaker parts of the
11 kV system in the urban areas. To find the cost of installing express feeders on the system at
those locations where they are needed will require a detailed investigation of each 11 kV system.
It was beyond the scope of this study to carry out this analysis. However, an overall cost estimate
has been made. The cost of installing beneficial express feeders is estimated at Rs 15.5 crore.
Reinforcing of 33 kV Lines
26.   Some of the short term measures recommended for the resolution of problems on the II
kV system apply equally well to the 33 kV system. These measures include the application of



Annex 3.1
Page 8 of 13
capacitors, rationalizing the system, balancing of loads and the use of express feeders in urban
areas. The CADPAW analysis of the 33 kV feeders revealed many locations where the voltage is
up to 25% lower than the nominal voltage. In many of these cases the solution will be the
construction of new 132/33 kV substations, which in addition to improving the voltage will also
reduce losses.
Long Term Measures
27.   The main additional long term measure for reducing losses and increasing the capacity of
the distribution system, along with conventional capacity reinforcement, is the conversion of the
11 kV system to 33 kV. The effect of converting the 11 kV feeders to 33 kV would provide an
immediate tripling of the capacity of the system and a reduction in losses by a factor of nine. It
would eliminate the need for investment in 33/11 kV substations, resolve all 11 kV voltage drop
and loading problems, and reduce technical losses. Without this conversion, investment will be
required in both the II kV and 33 kV systems, which in effect will be the same as rebuilding two
distribution systems. The construction of the two systems is so similar that conversion of the
overhead lines to the higher voltage can be carried out with very little investment and in most
cases by only modifying the cross-arm. Given the fact that an increase of up to 25% is required in
both distribution and 33/11 kV transformer capacity, simply to upgrade the system to an
acceptable standard makes conversion a logical solution.
28.   The results of the analysis demonstrate that for a range of feeder loads, on feeders with
differing topography and feeders located in both rural and urban areas 33 kV is nearly always
more economic than 11 kV. By making a decision to eliminate the 11 kV system based on the
results of this study, investment in the 11 kV system and the 33/11 kV substations that supply it
can be eliminated. In those instances where interim reinforcement is required, it can be provided,
for example by the construction of express feeders. The express feeders can be constructed for 33
kV, initially operated at 11 kV and integrated into the 33 kV system at a later date. The condition
of the existing 11 kV and 33 kV distribution systems throughout the state makes an action plan
imperative.
29.   The findings of the feasibility study were applied to the whole system to produce a voltage
conversion program and an investment schedule. A period of five years is considered a
reasonable time frame to implement such a program and this period has been used in developing
the investment schedule. The estimates of line and transformer costs developed as part of the
feasibility study were reduced to costs of rupees per kVA of load supplied for both urban and
rural systems. These unit costs were used to develop conversion costs for each circle based on
the connected 33/11 kV transformer capacity. The priorities of conversion were established by
reviewing the load on all 33/11 kV transformers and including those loaded to 80% or more of
their rating into the first two years of the program. This method of assigning the priorities will
ensure that a minimum of investment is assigned to 33/11 kV substations, which following
conversion will become redundant. Table 7 summarizes the investment by year and circle for each
of the five years of the proposed investment program.



Annex 3.1
Page 9 of 13
Losses
Technical Losses
30.   Estimated actual technical losses (from Table 8) and realistic target levels for technical
losses are listed by component below, adding up to 23% and about 11%, respectively
Comvonent                      Estimated Losses   Target Losses
M)                ()
33 kV lines                          6.2%               4.0%
33/11 kV transformers                0.9%               0.75%
11 kV lines                          6.7%               2.5%
11/0.4 kV transformers               1.7%               1.0%
LV lines                             7.5%               3.0%
Total                                23.0%               11.25%
31.   Unlike non-technical losses, the control and reduction of technical losses require large
investments in plant and equipment to reduce them and more modest investment to maintain
control. In the present situation the reduction of technical losses in Orissa must come through
investment. The proposed 11 to 33 kV conversion program, if implemented, will resolve the loss
problem on the 11 kV circuits, the 11/0.4 kV transformers and to some extent the low voltage
circuits as 33/0.4 kV transformers are added and the low voltage system is rationalized. The
reduction of losses on the 33 kV circuits will come through the construction of some new 132/33
kV substations and through the construction of new 33 kV lines. In the urban areas the use of
new large capacity express feeders to upgrade the 33 kV system will make a significant
contribution to loss reduction. The control of the losses will come through the optimization of all
system components and a vigorous monitoring program. It is essential that planning for loss
control becomes a major focus of all distribution planning activities. It usually follows that if
losses are under control most other aspects are also in good order.
Non-technical Losses
32.   A three stage program for reducing and controlling non-technical losses was developed
and is outlined below.
First Stage (detailed planning and design)
* A definition of the size of the problem in terms of the number of users not identified in the
billing system
* A definition of the number of customers recorded in the billing system who have some
form of fraudulent installation other than a damaged meter



Annex 3.1
Page 1O of 13
* A definition of the number of service installations that are required to be replaced to
reduce the opportunity for illegal connections
* Identification of the areas where loss reduction measures will prove most effective in
terms of cost and form a basis to set priorities among the activities
* Develop programs for field implementation to be completed in a reasonable period
* Define the resources and training required for the carrying out the field programs
* Define the procedures and electronic data processing system to be adopted for managing
the rehabilitation of client/user installations and the procedure for incorporation into the
billing system
* Define the procedures to be applied for the verification and control of clients/users
detected with illegal or illicit connections to ensure continued compliance
* Define the criteria for the application of punitive measures
* Define the scope of the public relations campaign and identify suitable producers
* Define the criteria for measuring performance and success
Second Stage (field implementation)
* The deployment and control of field crews
* Install meters, rehabilitate service connections and remove illegal connections and
installations
* Process supply contracts and incorporate users into the billing system
*  Evaluate monetary penalties to be applied where applicable. This will normally apply only
for the theft of large blocks of power
* Carrying out the public relations campaign
Third Stage (monitoring)
The third stage will include ongoing monitoring of the situation. As the initial inspection
programs continue, more resources will be diverted to the control and verification of newly
reformed clients, particularly in the categories where consumption is highest. The stage will
include:



Annex 3.1
Page I I of 13
* Carrying out programs for the reinspection of clients whose consumption pattems have
changed or returned to zero
* Carrying out ongoing, rotating, random inspection programs of large consumers
* Provide for the application of legal measures
* Ongoing monitoring of project performance and loss levels
* Carry out a survey of public reaction
Implementation Program For The Distribution System Improvement Measures
Summary of Measures
33.   This section outlines the measures recommended for implementation and applies in
particular to the short term measures, which are intended to provide for rapid improvements to
the system:
* Increase the distribution transformer capacity statewide and include measures to reduce
low voltage system losses
* Install capacitors on all 11 kV feeders to improve the power factor, reduce losses and
peak demand, and improve voltage profiles
* Carry out a program to decide where rationalization of the system and load balancing will
produce improvements
* Identify areas of the system where the use of express feeders will produce benefits and
provide rapid improvements in capacity. Develop an implementation program and
investment schedule
* Carry out a 11 to 33 kV voltage conversion program
* Carry out a program for the reduction of non-technical losses
* improve and maintain the database for distribution planning
* Develop a consistent set of planning criteria to ensure optimal loading of system
components with adequate operating flexibility and acceptable levels of technical losses.



Annex 3.1
Page 12 of 13
Investment Schedule
34.   The time frame assumed for project execution and used as a basis for developing an
investment schedule is the shortest possible and assumes that all activities will be carried out as
turnkey projects. The cost estimates have been prepared using OSEB equipment and labor rates.
The costs for each of the recommended measures, other than rationalization and load balancing,
are summarized by circle in Table 9. The proposed implementation schedule for the whole state is
summarized below. An allowance of 30% has been added to the costs given in Table 9 to provide
for the use of contract labor. Also the amounts to be recovered from salvaging redundant 11 kV
materials have been excluded from the voltage conversion program estimate.
Item                           Year of Implementation           Total
1       2       3        4        5
Increase Distribution  26.0    39.0    39.0                      104.0
Transformer Capacity
Install Capacitors    30.0    60.0    30.0                       120.0
Rationalization and     5.0     5.0      5.0                      15.0
Load Balancing
Express Feeders         5.1     7.5      7.5                      20.1
Voltage Conversion    107.0   160.7   194.7   194.7   194.7    851.8
Total(Rscrore)        173.1   272.2   276.2   194.7   194.7   1,110.9
AVAILABLE REPORTS
35.   Reports describing the results of the study work in each of the main activity areas - load
forecasting, generation planning, transmission planning and distribution planning - are available.
This annex covers the results of the planning work for transmission and distribution system
reinforcement and expansion. All results are summarized in Monenco's main volume. Details
are provided in the four reports included as appendices to Monenco's main report. All are
available in the project file.
36.   The main report contains eight sections: (a) Introduction; (b) General information on
Orissa; (c) a description of the present generation, transmission and distribution facilities in the
state; (d) summary of the load forecasts for Orissa and for the Eastern Region; (e) the least cost
long term generation plan; (f) the transmission system master plan; (g) summary of measures
recommended for improving the performance of the distribution network; and (h) conclusions and
recommendations.



Annex 3.1
Page 13 of 13
37.   Appendix A, the Load forecast report, covers: (a) Basic consumption, tariff, economic and
demographic data; (b) a review of recent forecasts covering Orissa and the Eastern Region; (c)
The methodology used to prepare the forecast; (d) analytical work to arrive at the forecast and
the resulting demand projections; (e) summary of the results.
38.   Appendix B, Generation report, covers: (a) present electricity supply in Orissa including a
description of facilities and historical generation statistics; (b) summary of the load forecast; (c)
technical and economic criteria for the generation planning; (d) technical and cost information on
the present sources of supply and future supply options; (e) derivation of the expansion plans and
calculation of the long run marginal cost of generation; and (f) Conclusions and recommendations.
39.   Appendix C, Transmission report, covers: (a) a description of the present transmission
network in Orissa; (b) Future loads and generation additions; (c) Methodology used and the
criteria followed for planning the expansion of the transmission network; (d) technical and cost
information on expansion alternatives for the transmission network; (e) proposed expansion of the
transmission network; (f) analysis of the present and future transmission network to verify
proposed additions; (g) the recommended program and costs for expanding the transmission
network; and (h) conclusions and recommendations.
40.   Appendix D, Distribution report, covers: (a) an analysis of the present distribution system
in Orissa and a review of previous planning studies; (b) short term measures for rapidly improving
the performance of the distribution system; (c) long term measures for reducing losses and
increasing the capacity of the distribution system; (d) an assessment of technical and total loss
levels; (e) a program and investment schedule for carrying out the recommended short term and
long term improvement measures; and (f) conclusions and recommendations.



Annex 3.1
Table 1
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 1: INVESTMENT FOR 400 KV AND 220 KV LINES
From           To                Number   Distance    In Service   Transmission Lines             Switchgear
Circuits  (km)        Year (1)     Unit Cost       Total Cost    Number of   Feeder Cost       Total Cost    Total Cost
(Rs lakhs/km)    (Rs crore)   Feeders      (Rs lakhsfbay)   (Rs crore)    (Rs crore)
400 KVADDITIONS
Indravati      Indravati PGCI          1           4        2001              45.2           1.8           2             482            9.6          11.4
Meramundali   Duburi                   2          88        2002              72.3          63.6           4              482          19.3          82.9
Rengali        Meramundali             2          80        2002              72.3          57.8           4              482          19.3          77.1
Meramundali  lb                        2         235        2002              72.3         169.9           4              482          19.3         189.2
Khalabadia     LILO Rengali to         2          10        2002              72.3           7.2           2              482           9.6          16.9
Kolaghat line
Meramundali   Chandaka                 2         120        2002              54.2          65.0           2              482           9.6          74.7
Subtotal                                         537                                       365.4                                       86.8         452.2
220 KVADDITIONS
Duburi [2]     Bhadrak                 2          60        2002               9.5           5.7           2              218           4.4           10.1
Bhadrak r2]    Balosore                2          75        2002               9.5           7.1           2              218           4.4           11.5
Khalabadia     Baripada                2          50        2002              27.9          14.0           2              218           4.4          18.3
Baripada       Balasore                2          57        2002              27.9          15.9           2              218           4.4          20.3
Palasponga     Joda                    2          40        2002              27.9          11.2           2              218           4.4          15.5
Duburi         Paradip                 2         100        2002              36.5          36.5           4              218           8.7          45.2
Kendrapara     LILO luburi to          2          10        2002              36.5           3.7           2              218           4.4           8.0
to Paradip line
Meramundali   NALCO                    2          20        2002              36.5           7.3           4              218           8.7          16.0
Bidnasi        Chandaka                2          18        2002              27.9           5.0           2              218           4.4           9.4
Kurda          LILO Narendrapur t      2          10        2002              36.5           3.7           2              218           4.4           8.0
to Chandaka line
Indravati      Theruvali               2          90        2001             36.5           32.9           4             218            8.7          41.6
Indravati      Bhanjanagar             2         290        2001             36.5          105.9           4             218            8.7         114.6
Upper Kolab    Jayanagar               1           6        2002              22.8           1.4           2             218            4.4           5.7
Budhipadar     Bodangr                 2         170        2002              36.5          62.1           4             218            8.7          70.8
Hirakud        LlLO Budipadar to       2          10        2002              36.5           3.7           2             218            4.4           8.0
Bolangir Ime
Barkot         LELORenRai to           2          10        2002              36.5           3.7           2             218            4.4           8.0
Tarkera lne
Subtotal                                        1016                                       319.4                                       91.6         410.9
Tetal                                           1553                                      684.8                                       1783          863.1
NOTES:
(1j Fis yea
[2a Second ciruit ofa double cuBih line



Annex 3.1
Table 2
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 2: INVESTMENT FOR 132 kV LINES
From           To                Number    Distance    In Service    Transmission Lines              Switcbgear
Circuits    (km)        Year (1)     Unit Cost        Total Cost    Number of   Feeder Cost    Total Cost   Total Cost
(Rs lakhs/km)    (Rs crore)    Feeders     (Rs lakhstbay)  (Rs crore)   (Rs crore)
OSEB PROPOSED LINES
Anandapur      Duburi                   1           40        2000              15.2            6.1           2              114         2.3            8.4
Athamalik      Boinda                   1           70         2000             15.2           10.6           2              114         2.3           12.9
Boinda         LILO Angul to            2            5         2000             23.9            1.2           2              114          2.3           3.5
Burla line
Nawarangpur   Tentulkhunti              1           30         2000             15.2            4.6           2              114         2.3            6.8
Nimapara       Puri                     1           40         1998             15.2            6.1           2              114         2.3            8.4
Sundargarh     Budhipadar               2           30         1998             23.9            7.2           4              114         4.6           11.7
Tensa          Joda                     2           40         2000             23.9            9.6           4              114         4.6           14.1
ADDITIONAL LINES
Bidnasi        Cuttack                  2            5         2002             23.9            1.2           4              114          4.6           5.8
Chainpal       Dbenkanal                1           43         2002             15.2            6.5           2              114         2.3            8.8
Choudwar       Bidnasi                  1           18         2002             15.2            2.7           2              114          2.3           5.0
Duburi         Jajpur Road              2           11         2002             23.9            2.6           4              114         4.6            7.2
Narendrapur    Berhampur                2           10         2002             23.9            2.4           4              114          4.6           7.0
Narendrapur    Chatrapur                2           10         2002             23.9            2.4           4              114         4.6            7.0
Rayagada       Theruvali                1           20         2002             15.2            3.0           2              114         2.3            5.3
Rourkela       Tarkera                   1           5         2002             15.2            0.8           2              114         2.3            3.0
RSP            Tarkera                   1           5         2002             15.2            0.8           2              114          2.3           3.0
Talcher        Chainpal                  1           4         2002             15.2            0.6           2              114          2.3           2.9
Tot.J                                             386                                         68.3                                      52.4          120.3
NOTES:
[11 Fiscal year



Annex 3.1
Table 3
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 3: INVESTMENT FOR TRANSFORMERS
HV Switchgear                HV Switchgear
Transfornner                                                        Transt             Primary                         Secondary
Ratio           Nmnber         Capacity      In Service       Cost (2)           Unit Cost        Total Cost      Unit Cost           Total             Total Cost
Substation                  (kV/kV)               Transfs.         (MVA)       Year (l)           (Rs crore)        (Rs lakhs/bay)  (Rs crore)    (Rs lakhs/bay)       (Rs crore)         (Rs crore)
400KV TRANSFORMERS
Chandaka                    4001220/33              2                 315         2002                  20.8          244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
Chandaka                    400/132/33              2                 315         2002                  20.8          244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
Duburi                      400/220/33              2                 315         2002                 20.8           244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
lb                          400/220/33              2                 315         2002                 20.8           244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
Indravati                   400/220/33              2                 315         2001                  20.8          244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
JayanagarPGCI               400/220/33              2                 315         2001                  20.8          244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
Khalabadia                  400/220/33              2                 315         2002                  20.8          244                 4.9          123                    2.5               28.1
Meramundali                 400/220/33              3                 315         2002                  31.2          244                 7.3          123                    3.7               42.2
220KV TRANSFORMERS
Baripada                    220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Barkot                      220/132                 1                  40         2002                   1.3          123                 1.2           69                    0.7                3.2
Bhanjanagar                 220/132                 1                 100         2002                   3.3          123                 1.2          69                     0.7                5.2
Bidnasi                     220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Bolangir                    220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Hirakud                     220/132                 1                 100         2002                   3.3          123                 1.2          69                     0.7                5.2
Kendrapara                  220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Khurda                      220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Palasponga                  220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Paradip                     220/132                 2                 100         2002                   6.6          123                 2.5          69                     1.4               10.4
Theruvali                   220/132                 1                 100         2002                   3.3          123                 1.2          69                     0.7                5.2
Total                                                                                                 234.1                              63.6                                33.3              331.1
NOTES:
[I] Fiscal year
[2] Transformers were coaled at 330 Rs/klVA regardless of voltage



Annex 3.1
Table 4
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 4: INVESTMENT FOR CAPACITORS AND REACTORS
Reactive            Switching Equipment Cost
Total                    Equipment
Voltage                   Capability    In Service     Cost (2)      Unit Cost      Total Cost Total Cost
Substation           (kV)         Number    (MVAR)          Year (1)     (Rs crore)   (Rs lakhs/bay)    (Rs crore)  (Rs crore)
CAPACITORS
Balugaon                132             2            10        2002             0.3              30           0.6           0.9
Bidnasi                 132             2            10        2002             0.3              30           0.6           0.9
Chandaka                132             3            15        2002             0.5              30           0.9           1.4
Choudwar                132             2            10        2002             0.3              30           0.6           0.9
Nayagarah               132             2            10        2002             0.3              30           0.6           0.9
Puri                    132             1             5        2002             0.2              30           0.3           0.5
Sijua                   132             2            10        2002             0.3              30           0.6          0.9
Subtotal                                14           70                         2.3                                         6.5
REA4CTORS
lb                     420              1            63        2002            2.1             244           2.4           4.5
Duburi                  420              1           50        2002             1.7             244           2.4           4.1
Meramundali             420             2           126        2002             4.2             244           4.9           9.0
Chandaka                420             1            63        2002             2.1             244           2.4          4.5
Subtotal                                4           302                        10.0                          12.2          22.2
Totd                                                                           12.3                          12.2         28.7
NOTES:
[11 Fiscal year
[2] Capacitor and reactor unit costs are the same regardless of voltage level



Annex 3.1
Table 5
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 5: DISTRIBUTION TRANSFORMER REQUIREMENTS
Circle                              Installed    Additional          Cost of      Additional           Cost of        Total Cost of
Transformer        Capacity      Additional        HV Line         Additional        Transformers
Capacity         Needed        Capacity          Needed          HV Line          and HV Line
(kVA)           kVA)       (Rs crores)          (km)         (Fs crores)         (Rs crores)
Balasore                             242824           69725             9.13            279               2.04               11.17
Berhamnpur                           207825           59675             7.82            238               1.74                9.56
Bhubaneswar                          327394           94009            12.32            376               2.74               15.06
Bolangir                              147425          42332             5.55             169              1.24                6.78
Burla                                 148307          42585             5.58             170              1.24                6.82
Cuttack                              232836           66857             8.76            267               1.95               10.71
Dhenkanal                              92707           26620            3.49             106              0.78                4.26
Jajpur Road                           136771          39273             5.14             157              1.14                6.29
Jeypore                               100760          28933             3.79             116             0.84                 4.63
Rourkela                              105937          30419             3.98             122             0.89                 4.87
Total                               1742786          500428            65.56           2000             14.60                80.16



Annex 3.1
Table 6
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 6: CAPACITOR REQUIREMENTS
Circle                          Circle Peak       Reactive Load       Reactive Load        Capacitance
Load                 at 0.8 PF          at 0.98 PF        Required to            Cost of
(M*)                 (MVAR)               (MVAR)          Improve PF           Capacitor
to 0.98       Installations
(MVAR)           (Rs crores)
Balasore                                 92                55.2                 18.3               36.9               9.22
Berhampur                               102                61.2                 20.3               40.9              10.23
Bhubaneswar                             172                103.2                34.2               69.0              17.24
Bolangir                                 49                29.4                  9.8               19.7               4.91
Burla                                   102                61.2                 20.3               40.9              10.23
Cuttack                                 123                73.8                 24.5               49.3              12.33
Dhenkanal                                65                 39.0                12.9               26.1               6.52
Jajpur Road                              65                39.0                 12.9               26.1               6.52
Jeypore                                  80                 48.0                15.9               32.1               8.02
Rourkela                                 66                 39.6                13.1               26.5               6.62
Total                                  916                549.6                182.3              367.3              91.83



Annex 3.1
Table 7
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 7: VOLTAGE CONVERSION COSTS
Cirile          Conversion Cost by Year of lInplementation (Rs crore)                           Toial
1             2             3             4             5             Cot
Balasore               7.66          11.50        20.55          20.55         20.55            80.81
Berhampur             10.88         16.33          9.92           9.92          9.92            56.98
Bhubaneswar           11.65         17.50          18.01         18.01         18.01            83.18
Bolangir               3.35          5.03          18.63         18.63         18.63            64.28
Burla                  6.36          9.56          14.34         14.34         14.34            58.94
Cuttack                5.57          8.37          15.92         15.92         15.92           61.70
Dhenkanal              8.77         13.17           3.86          3.86          3.86            33.53
Jajpur Road            3.08          4.62          14.05         14.05         14.05           49.85
Jeypore                2.57          3.85          13.98         13.98         13.98           48.36
Roukela               20.49         30.77          16.96         16.96         16.96           102.14
Total                 80.38        120.69        146.23        146.23        146.23           639.77



Annex 3.1
Table 8
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 8: DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM - ESTIMATED TECHNICAL LOSSES
33 kV Un..                33/11 kV Trsufonnr           11 kV  ine                11/0.4kV Trm.                LT Lines                     Total         Tobl          Totel     Energy
Demand        Enry         Dema_           Energy       Denu_d         Energy     Denmnd         Energy    Dt and          Energy    Denand          Energy        Energy       Lo  as
LAm          LOW           Loss           Los           Loss          Loss      Los          Loss        Loss          Loss         Los          LoAS            input      % of
CIRCLE            (MW)       (MW/y)          (MW)       (MWqyr)           (MW)   (MWhtyr)          (MW)        (MWh/y)        (MW)       (MWy)          (          (M    y      (M h)          output
Balasre            7.92        49271          0.76           5481          12.06        75000           1.49      11193         8.57        53278       30.80        194223        598400         32.5
Ber-hp             6.72        29137           1.22          6651           3.24        14040           2.18      12125        12.18        52809        25.54       114762        651325          17.6
Bhubaneswar       11.44        52253          0.86           5196          16.34        74639           2.56      15538        16.37        74794       47.57        222420       1040898         21.4
Bolngir            4.92        31993           0.52          3668           1.95        12684           0.91       7067         4.73        30761        13.03        86173        287458         30.0
Burla              4.89        25293           1.82          9913          14.84        76771           2.89      16664        12.15        62882        36.59       191523        684898         28.0
Cutik              6.64        30319           0.70          4184           5.95        27171           1.96      11691        11.73        53590        26.98       126955        802505          15.8
Dbenkanal          6.90        44804           0.43          3068           5.53        35955           0.86       6277         4.48        29110        18.20       119214        388186         30.7
JajpI   Road       7.36        43816           0.86          5569           6.30        37454           1.16       8166         6.31        37569        21.99       132574        616185         21.5
Jeypo-             6.80        24277           1.13          4738           5.49        19607           1.60       7537         6.95        24829       21.97         80988        310933         26.0
Rourkeln           6.47        31902          0.30            1938          3.56        17531          0.54        3875         3.20        15756        14.07        71002        456999         15.5
Ten               70.06       363065           E60          50406          7526        390852         16.15      100133        8667        435378      25674        1339834       5837787         23.0
CoaWonmjtLo  AS %              27.10                          3.76                       29.17                     7.47                      32.49
of Totdl Ergy Leo
m Dutrnilubon Systen



Annex 3.1
Table 9
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE 9: COST SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDED MEASURES - BY CIRCLE
Cirde          Cost of Measure (Rs crore)
Distribution                       Express            Voltage
Transforners       Capacitors        Feeders         Conversion        TotaW
Balasore                  11.15            9.24            1.53             80.81        102.72
Berhampur                  9.54           10.25            1.99             56.98        78.75
Bhubaneswar               15.03           17.23            3.04             83.18        118.48
Bolangir                   6.77            4.92            0.93             64.28        76.90
Burla                      6.81           10.24            1.86             58.94        77.84
Cuttack                   10.69           12.35            2.28             61.70        87.02
Dhenkanal                  4.26            6.53            0.77             33.53        45.09
Jajpur Road                6.28            6.53            1.15             49.85        63.82
Jeypore                    4.63            8.03            1.01             48.36        62.03
Rourkela                   4.86            6.63            0.90            102.14       114.54
Total                    80.00            91.95           15.46            639.77       827.19



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 12
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT IN ORISSA
Background
1.   In Orissa, current power supply constraints and capital requirements for system expansion
reinforce the need to pursue demand-side initiatives to complement supply-side expansion.
Demand-side management (DSM) is defined, for the purposes of this project, as identifying and
implementing initiatives that improve the use of power supply capacity by altering the
characteristics of the demand for electricity. DSM initiatives to be implemented under the project
involve a mix of pricing, other load management and conservation strategies and investments
designed to increase the incentives and help end-users use electricity more efficiently.
2.    The power system in Orissa is currently in deficit which results in frequent load shedding
for OSEB customers during morning and evening peaks. While new supply sources are planned
and under construction, the system is still expected to remain in deficit until FY98. The Planning
Working Group has projected the Orissa power system to be able to rapidly reduce the current
shortages and from FY98 meet the projected electricity demand in terms of energy requirements.
With the commissioning of the Upper Indravati hydro project and lb units 3-4, the total peaking
capacity of the system is projected to exceed and its dependable load carrying capability
(calculated by deducting the largest generating unit from the total peaking capacity) is projected
to match the projected peak load in FY99-FY2000 and again at the time of commissioning of the
projected next 500 MW thermal project in FY2003. In the FY2001-FY2002 period, the total
peaking capacity matches the projected peak demand, i.e. the loss of a generating unit at system
peak would result in load restrictions. In the absence of a more reasonable level of reserve
capacity, the Orissa power system may therefore still experience some difficulties in meeting the
peak demand.
Potential for Demand-Side Management
3.    Bank review demonstrated that potential for load management and electricity conservation
exists in Orissa. Major opportunities for DSM.in Orissa exist in rationalizing electrical cooker
loads in the domestic sector, off-peak scheduling of municipal water pumping and low and
medium industry, effective rostering of agricultural loads and through more efficient management
and utilization of electrical energy in large industries. A conservative estimate of the potential
load reduction in these sectors (generally in the range of 10 to 25% of the estimated technical
potential), suggests an overall load reduction over the peak period of about 240 MW, or 15 % of
system capacity. Subsequent audits of selected industrial sites have confirmed opportunities to
improve efficiency while providing attractive pay-back periods. For example, a preliminary audit
of one of the municipal water pumping stations indicated that the motors and pumps could be
replaced with more efficient units while providing a pay-back of less than two years. This project
is among the DSM investments expected to be implemented under the proposed Bank loan.



Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 12
Barriers to Demand-Side Management in Orissa
4.    The barriers or issues related to the achievement of efficient use of electricity in Orissa can
be grouped into three categories: (a) those that are under the control of the electric utility; (b)
those that result from cultural or awareness problems; and (c) those related to the infrastructure
necessary for successful programs.
5.    Utility Induced barriers. One of the necessary prerequisites of efficient electricity use is
tariffs that reflect appropriate price signals. This means that the tariff, or at least the trailing step
of the tariff, should reflect the cost of providing additional electricity supply, and the customer
should pay in accordance with the amount of electricity consumed. Today, a number of factors
are preventing the customer from receiving the appropriate price signals:
(a)   tariffs reflect neither marginal costs nor embedded costs for each sector. Some of
the domestic sector rates cover only about 40% of the costs, while the large
industrial rate recovers well over 100% of the embedded cost;
(b)   there are currently no Time of Day or Interruptible tariffs to encourage customers
to shift loads around the peak periods, although site visits indicate that there is
load which could be shifted in response to appropriate price signals. The response
to off-peak tariffs appears mixed with some categories of customers (such as one
or two shift industries) clearly interested. Further, there is a significant amount of
back-up generation installed in Orissa. This is required to allow commercial and
industrial companies to function when power quality on the OSEB system is
inadequate or power is interrupted. It has been estimated that 150 - 300 MW
might be available from this source. Appropriate price signals could encourage this
supply to become available over peak periods;
(c)    bills received by many customers do not reflect the amount of electricity
consumed. There is a high incidence of defective meters, especially in the
residential sector where it is estimated that almost 90% of the meters are defective.
In these cases, the customer is billed a flat rate based on his connected load rather
than for actual consumption. Similar problems exist in the agricultural sector.
Finally, the incidence of other commercial losses, including outright theft, is very
high. OSEB estimates this at about 20% of the electricity generated;
(d)    power quality problems, including significant voltage sag, will preclude the use of
some cost effective technologies, such as fluorescent or compact fluorescent lights
with mechanical ballasts. Voltage stabilizers can be used to compensate for
voltage problems, but this reduces cost effectiveness;
(e)   the utility also lacks some of the infrastructure, commonly available in North
American and European utilities, necessary for the development of effective DSM
programs. For example, there is no end use "appliance" or equipment data upon
which to start estimating conservation or load shifting potential. A load research
project is now being planned as currently no detailed customer level load shape



Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 12
data exists. he utility does not have an energy use or customer advisory group,
and has only limited technical knowledge of customer applications or equipment.
Finally, planning for new supply has been based on generation planning
approaches, rather than some form of Integrated Resource Planning which would
attempt to balance investment in both supply and demand alternatives. The DSM
program will provide the necessary initial experience and information for wider
application of DSM and its formal incorporation into the planning process.
6.    Cultural Barriers. Even when the price signals are correct, the appropriate level of
investment in conservation or efficiency may not occur for a number of reasons relating to the
mindset or priorities of the consumer. In many parts of the world, including India, there is an
historic focus on first cost rather than life-cycle cost when developing new plants. In making
equipment purchase decisions, many end-users seek to minimize initial capital costs and pay less
attention to lifetime operating costs:
(a)   thus an investment that would improve energy efficiency, but which would cost
more than a viable alternative investment is less likely to be selected;
(b)   as a result of this focus on first cost, the installed base of equipment in Orissa
appears relatively inefficient when compared with North American or European
standards;
(c)   the awareness of energy efficiency as a management issue in business is very
limited to non-existent. Among the more informed consumers there is a tendency
to focus only on measures with a simple pay-back of one to two years
(corresponding to IRR of 50-100% ). As a result, many efficiency measures that
have a longer, still economically attractive, pay-back are not selected;
(d)   the awareness of energy efficient technologies or O&M practices at the working
level appears to be very limited in both plants and business as well as in the
domestic and agricultural sector; and
(e)   first-cost minimization often occurs in practice because equipment purchase
decisions are made by people who do not pay, or are not responsible for paying the
electricity bills. For example managers of operating departments in some industrial
facilities may choose equipment for their departments, but generally are not aware
of the effect on electricity consumption since the electricity bill is typically for the
entire plant and consumption is not traceable to individual operating departments.
Equipment purchasers who do not pay operating costs have little incentive to
consider efficiency improvements.



Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 12
7.    Infrastructure Barriers. Another element that is necessary for the successful operation of
DSM programs is an infrastructure in the economy that can deliver, sell and install efficient
technologies as well as the standard ones:
(a)    while there are a number of consulting firms in Orissa, only one (Orissa Industrial
and Technical Consultancy Organization Ltd.) appears to have had a focus on
energy efficient audits, and they only perform a few efficiency studies per year; and
(b)    some efficiency technologies are not available in Orissa. For example, electronic
ballasts are only recently coming on the market, and have a poor reputation due to
reliability problems. Other technologies such as variable speed drives in motors,
vapor absorption systems and compact fluorescent lamps are not readily available.
Approaches to Address Barriers
8.    Utility Induced Barriers. As part of the Project, a number of steps are being taken to
address barriers to DSM:
(a)   tariffs are in the process of being restructured. The intent is to move the trailing
step of the tariffs towards marginal cost and to contain the imbalance of cost
recovery between sectors. DSM objectives will be best accomplished in sectors
which are paying the highest rates. These are the three industrial groups and
public water works. Conversely, the price signals are weakest in the domestic and
agricultural sectors, which will make it more difficult to achieve results in these
sectors. For domestic sector, the increasing block rate structure, with rates at high
consumption levels reaching, even exceeding cost of supply, will be used to
provide the correct price signals;
(b)    Time of Day tariffs are under development, and are expected to be introduced in
1996. They can not be implemented faster than this, as special meters will have to
be installed; these are being procured under the Project;
(c)    an Interruptible Time of Day rate to encourage the use of customer installed
backup equipment over peak periods has been suggested and taken to the Tariff
Working Group for further consideration;
(d)    OSEB is currently tendering for new meters to replace the current defective ones.
Operational meters will significantly reduce the occurrence of flat rate billing.
Finally, the proposed privatization of the distribution system, with it's associated
profit motivation and cost discipline, is expected to help reduce losses further,
commercial losses in particular, and further improve the billing and collection
practices. Again, it will take time for these changes to occur;
(e)    as part of the reform program, investments in generation, transmission and
distribution are being defined which, when implemented, will allow the system to
operate in a more reliable, stable manner. However, it will take several years



Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 12
before the system operates at a level of reliability even close to the levels of
developed country systems. In the interim period, conservation programs will have
to avoid the use of technologies that function only is such high-quality supply
environments and will not withstand voltage and frequency variations;
(f)    end-use appliance or equipment data has so far not been collected, nor has OSEB
developed an end-use technology group. However these weakness are recognized
and the load management/conservation program addresses them. One component
of this project is to collect such data and develop detailed conservation potential
estimates and help target conservation programs; and
(g)   a fundamental starting point in the design and development of a DSM program
involves the establishment of a load research capacity in OSEB. DSM programs
have traditionally utilized information that identified the potential for load
reduction or load shape changes. Developing a DSM program involves identifying
system demand and power supply (load shape) objectives, analyzing various
customer programs to meet these objectives, designing a strategy for program
implementation and assessing results.
9.    Cultural Barriers. The historic focus on low first cost in plant engineering will take time to
overcome. It will be necessary for the utility to establish linkages with plant owners at the
development stage, to promote the concept of life cycle costs, and to alert management about future
rates. Senior utility staff, active or recently retired, may be particularly effective in this role. It will
also be necessary to raise management awareness to the benefits of more efficient electricity use. This
can be done both by raising general awareness through standard marketing approaches, and by using
the results of case studies or demonstration projects in similar industries to illustrate the benefits. It
will also be necessary to build awareness at the plant level. To do so will require both general
awareness building within the business community (similar to above), and a significant amount of
technical training. The technical assistance program is designed to help initiate such programs.
10.   Infrastructure Barriers. It will be necessary to help the consulting community in Orissa
develop the skills and expertise to market energy efficiency projects. This requires two elements.
First, there must be sufficient business available to encourage existing firms to expand or to attract
new entrants. Then it is necessary to provide both training and experience to allow these firms to
become successful. The ultimate goal is to develop the consulting community to the point that it can
market audits because this is a profitable business, and not as a result of outside support or subsidies.
11.   Once enough data has been collected to determine which technologies are required in
Orissa to support the DSM programs, it may be necessary to work with manufacturers and
distributors to make these products available. Often this is not difficult if there are programs to
support an adequate level of sales. Also, it may be possible to work with the distribution
organizations to jointly develop plans to promote these products.



Annex 3.2
Page 6 of 12
Sector Priorities for Demand-Side Management
12.   There are three basic requirements for a successful DSM program: (a) there must be a
customer with an end-use or application that can be made more efficient; (b) the necessary
efficiency products must be available; and (c) the customer must have a motivation (usually
financial) to make the changes. The following table presents the results of the initial potential
review and prioritizes the areas of opportunity.
Consumer Sector    Reduction    Project       Technology   Customer
Potential                 Available?    Motivation
1. Domestic        35 MW        i. Cookers          Y            L
ii. Lighting       Y            L
iii. Alt. Fuel     Y            L
2. Public Lighting  4 MW         i. Sodium Vapor    Y            M
ii. Daylight Sensors  Y         M
3. Water Pumping    35 MW       i. HE. pumps &      Y            H
Motors
ii. Storage        Y            H
4. S & M Ind.      20 MW         i. Off peak tariff    N         N/A
ii. DSM            Y            H
5. Large Ind.      50MW         i. DSM              Y            H
6. Irrigation      90 MW        i. Rostering        ?            L
ii. Rehabilitation  Y           L
13.   As indicated in the above table, the customer categories with the highest customer
motivation are Water Pumping and the Industrial sectors. This is the first place to launch the
program. If Public lighting retrofits are cost effective to the customer, this may be an easy market
to address, as there may be relatively few customers. However, in sectors such as the Domestic
and Irrigation, the benefit to the customer and hence the probability of success is low until tariff,
billing, collection and other commercial loss problems are addressed. Similarly, the use of back-
up generation to reduce peak load cannot be addressed until the necessary rates and meters are
installed.
Strategy to Initiate DSM in Orissa
14.   The DSM development strategy in Orissa consists of the three broad components: (a)
tariff restructuring including time-of-day tariffs; (b) systems and technology applications, and (c)
institutional and capacity building in DSM and load research. Given the current environment in
Orissa, the strategy to be applied to launch the DSM program will:
(a)   assist the utility to build the internal structures and mechanisms necessary to
implement the program and to administer its funding; build on early successes.
The implementation of demonstration projects, where the utility has a high degree



Annex 3.2
Page 7 of 12
of control, will provide both a vehicle for training and case studies to demonstrate
the value of conservation efforts;
(b)   initial efforts will be focused on areas where there is the greatest likelihood of
success. In Orissa, these areas appear to be the industrial sector and the municipal
water pumping sector. However it is possible to run demonstration projects in
other sectors;
(c)   expand the delivery capability with training and other facilitation to prepare
GRIDCO for ongoing programs;
(d)   build the necessary end-use and market databases and models to allow orderly
development of follow-up conservation programs;
(e)    develop awareness programs and training to prepare the market (end-users) for
ongoing programs;
(f)    based on the successes in the demonstration programs, and information acquired
on end uses, develop pilot programs, and then on-going programs; and
(g)   extend the DSM program to other sectors, such as domestic and irrigation as the
economnic signals are corrected.
Work Already Undertaken/Currently Underway
15.   A series of approximately 10 preliminary audits in various industries across Orissa are
being conducted. These will provide additional detail on the potential associated with individual
sites, and include information on the current installed equipment, potential replacement
equipment, costs and savings. It is anticipated that these audits will form the basis for the
industrial demonstration projects, though other projects will also be considered. Demonstration
projects for the domestic, irrigation and commercial sectors have not yet been identified, and will
be the responsibility of the technical assistance. Additional related studies currently being carried
in Orissa include:
(a)   investigation of load research activities and capability. This was conducted by a an
international consultant engaged by the Bank, to help formulate the load research
program;
(b)   an engineering study on municipal water pumping. A local group is preparing this
study. An investment of about US$ 2 million is likely to be involved;
(c)   rewinding of motors. Current motor rewinding practices appear to reduce the
efficiency of electric motors, as well as shorten their life. A consultant has been
engaged to do a quantitative assessment in Uttar Pradesh and Orissa; furthermore,
a parallel study on a motor program to replace inefficient motors by efficient ones
has been launched;



Annex 3.2
Page 8 of 12
(d)   in-plant load management. A scope of work has been defined, but the project has
not yet been initiated; however a similar study has been initiated in Uttar Pradesh
and its findings are likely to be of value to Orissa industrial plants;
(e)   other DSM investment opportunities at an early stage of preparation include: (1)
static VAR compensation in industries; (2) industrial cogeneration in sugar,
chemicals and metallurgical units; and (3) vapor absorption refrigeration in hotels
and commercial offices; and
(f)    ODA is in the process of launching an "Industrial Energy Efficiency Project" in
Orissa. This project will encourage overall energy efficiency, not solely electricity,
and will be focused on medium sized industry. It consists of developing a series of
demonstration projects and will be managed by the Bhubaneswar chapter of the
Confederation of Indian Industries (CII).
16.   The underlying objective is to develop an ongoing DSM function in Orissa which will
continue to function after the completion of the Bank-financed project. This will be accomplished
by:
(a)   developing an organizational and financial framework that will support ongoing
DSM. This includes working with GRIDCO to establish a management structure
to develop and operate the DSM programs, to administer the Bank loan, to define
an ongoing funding mechanism for DSM, and to review the final plan with the
GOO;
(b)   working with GRIDCO to develop a conservation management framework and
providing sufficient skills transfer such that they can effectively scope, design,
operate, monitor and evaluate programs,
(c)   implementing a series of demonstration programs across the major sectors, and in
different geographic areas, to demonstrate the effectiveness of DSM and to
prepare case studies which can be used to encourage further conservation projects.
Funding for installation of these demonstration projects will be available from the
Bank loan or from local financial institutions;
(d)   providing training to GRIDCO staff and Orissa consultants and customers;
(e)   organizing the collection of sufficient end use and market data to allow the orderly
development of DSM initiatives. Assist the GRIDCO with the development of a
conservation potential study; and
(f)   assisting GRIDCO with the development and operation of a program to raise
awareness of electricity efficiency.



Annex 3.2
Page 9 of 12
Implementation Assistance
17.   Technical assistance will be provided to help GRIDCO implement the program. As one of
the major outcomes expected from this program is skills transfer to local staff, as much work as
possible is to be performed by GRIDCO staff and local consultants. The consulting team will
have a training orientation in performing all tasks in addition to meeting all deliverables:
(a)   the consultant will work with GRIDCO to develop the Program Management
Framework;
(b)   primary responsibility for initiating the demonstration projects rests with the
consultant. However field work will be largely done by GRIDCO staff, assisted by
the consultant. Technical studies will be conducted by local consultants, with
technical assistance provided by the consultant as required;
(c)   primary responsibility for the training should reside with the GRIDCO, with
guidance from the consultant. Material may be presented by the consultant, but
preference should be given to using Orissa or Indian consultants when possible.
(d)   primary responsibility for demand side data collection and the conservation
potential study should reside with the GRIDCO staff and local consultants, under
guidance from the consultant;
(e)   primary responsibility for the follow-up program development should reside with
the GRIDCO, under guidance from the consultant.
(f)   primary responsibility for the awareness program will be with GRIDCO, under
guidance from the consultant.
Consultant Qualifications and Experience
18.   The consultants team shall have expertise in the following areas:
(a)   Team Leader. Overall management of the study and design of the project;
(b)   Evaluation. Practical experience in monitoring and evaluation of active DSM
programs on a substantial scale with a large utility;
(c)   DSM Planning. Practical experience with DSM project and program design.
Includes experience with DSM planning models such as Compass, DS Strategist or
equivalent;
(d)   Financing. Development of financing mechanisms for the program. Experience
with alternate methods of financing energy conservation programs by utilities and
the private sector. Must be knowledgeable about financing and taxation in India;



Annex 3.2
Page 10 of 12
(e)   Technology Experts(s). Assessment of appropriate technological interventions.
Practical experience in program design and operation in all sectors;
(f)    Marketing. Practical experience in developing marketing programs, with specific
reference to the industrial sector. Must be experienced with market research;
(g)   Experience in working in developing countries is an asset. Inclusion of Indian firms
or staff as partners in the proposal is an asset. The consultant is expect to perform
the majority of work in Orissa.
Tasks of the DSM Consultants
19.   The DSM consultants will:
(a)   Provide project management, help maintain project scope and schedule, includes
periodic reporting as required by the Bank and ODA;
(b)   Define DSM organization and financial framework. This includes: (I) assisting
with the development of structure and staffing of the DSM Group in GRIDCO; (2)
determining the financial impact of DSM on utility objectives; (3) developing an
implementation agreement for onlending World Bank funds; (4) applying lending
criteria for Bank funds (Annex 3.6); (5) defining a funding mechanism to
compensate the entity for undertaking DSM programs; (6) developing an updated
project plan and inception report; and (7) reviewing and seeking agreement from
the GOO for the updated plan;
(c)   Develop a program management framework. This includes: (1) developing all the
management systems required to scope, design, implement, operate, monitor and
evaluate DSM programs; (2) developing investment criteria for programs; (3)
developing essential linkages with parts of the utility such as generation planning,
load research and load forecasting; (4) developing tender procedures for acquiring
the services of outside consultants; and (5) generating support for DSM within the
utility by assisting with preparation and presentation of internal workshops or by
whatever means are appropriate;
(d)   Develop and implement Demonstration Projects. This includes: (1) selection of
approximately 8 demonstration projects. Some of these projects are expected to be
selected from those identified by the Bank. However the consultant must identify
additional projects in non-industrial sectors. The selected projects should be in
different industries and sectors, and geographically spread throughout Orissa; (2)
selection and provision of training to a pool of consultants who will be involved in
implementing the demonstration projects; and (3) assisting the GRIDCO staff and
local consultants to market and implement the demonstration projects. This
includes evaluating the impact of the projects, and developing case studies that can
be used to publicize the results of the project;



Annex 3.2
Page II of 12
(e)   Provide technical seminars. This includes: (1) assisting in selecting appropriate
topics and curricula; (2) assisting in arranging for appropriate presenters; (3)
assisting in the development of training material; and (4) assisting in presentations
to GRIDCO staff, consultants and customers;
(f)    DSM data collection and potential study. This includes: (1) developing the data
collection plan. This must be integrated with the load research group. Local
contractors will be used to do the actual data collection; (2) database design and
development; (3) selection and implementation of a planning tool to assist with
managing and analyzing the end use and market data; (4) providing necessary
training to allow the GRIDCO to make ongoing use of the tool; and (5) assist the
GRIDCO with the development of a DSM potential plan;
(g)   Develop Follow-up Programs. This includes: (1) selection of the best
opportunities for programs based on the DSM potential plan and the experience
from the demonstration programs; and (2) assisting GRIDCO to develop initial
follow-up programs. This includes assistance in all phases of program
development, from initial scoping to program development, approval, launch,
operation and evaluation; and
(h)   Develop an Electricity Conservation public awareness program. This includes: (1)
Assistance in development of a broad based awareness program; (2) Assistance in
developing marketing and technical material such as data sheets; and (3)
Assistance in providing utility field staff training.



Annex 3.2
Page 12 of 12
Estimated Consulting Services:
20.   An estimate of the man-months (mm) of consultant's services and anticipated other costs is
given below:
1. Project Management                                     6 mm
2. Develop DSM Framework                                  4 mm
3. Develop Program Management Framework                   4 mm
4. Implement Demonstration Projects                      20 mm
5. Seminars                                               4 mm
6. DSM Planning data                                      5 mm
7. Follow-up Projects                                    12 mm
8. Awareness Program                                      5 mm
Total                                             60 mm
Other budget items
A. Allowance for local consultants                       $ 500,000
B. Computer and Software for DSM planning                $ 50,000
C. Computers and Software for GRIDCO staff               $ 25,000
C. Process I/O for Evaluation                            $ 10,000
(meters included in load management project)
D. Miscellaneous test and analysis equipment             $ 20,000
E. Consulting cost for DSM data collection               $ 50,000
F. Allowance for training costs                          $ 50,000
G. Allowance for local travel in India                  $ 25.000
Total                                             $ 730,000



Annex 3.3
Page l of8
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Environmental Impact Summary
1.    Environmental Impact of the Reform Program. The overall environmental impact of the
reform program is expected to be significantly positive. Higher electricity tariffs and improved
metering and collection will encourage electricity conservation. Orissa's existing thermal
generation will be renovated and new capacity will be constructed and operated by private utilities
in accordance with modem practices and applicable national environmental standards, which are
in line with Bank standards. The two major ongoing projects in Orissa are being developed in
accordance with the Bank Group environmental standards: NTPC's Talcher is supported by the
Bank under an earlier operation and lb units 3-4 by EFC (approved in July 1994). Transmission
and distribution rehabilitation, demand-side management (DSM) and technical assistance under
the proposed Project will significantly reduce power system losses and help improve the efficiency
of electricity consumption, thereby also contribute to containing environmental emissions.
2.    The two main investment components to be financed under the proposed Bank loan, Part
A: Transmission and Distribution and Part B: Demand-Side Management (DSM) are discussed
below. They account for US$340 million or about 97 percent of the total loan amount. The
balance of the loan, US$10 million, is allocated to Part C: Institutional Development, Technical
Assistance and Training.
Part A: Transmission And Distribution
Introduction
3.    Three transmission line projects have been reviewed and will be included in the first phase
of the loan. Additional projects will be submitted during Project implementation. The
environmental issues related to these transmission and distribution projects in general and to the
three selected projects individually are discussed below. Environmental analyses will be submitted
for all subsequent projects as they are prepared, in line with agreed appraisal criteria (Annex 4.4).
Environmental Assessment and Clearance Process
Forest Clearance:
4.    Under the 1980 Conservation of Forest Act, approval for new lines must be obtained from
the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) regional office. Power line routing in India
undergoes extensive review in the project planning stage. Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB)
and under the Project its successor, the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) must demonstrate
that the power line routing involves a minimum of forest land with alternative route surveys. The



Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 8
alternative routes are surveyed jointly by GRIDCO engineers and the Orissa government's
Department of Forest (DOF) personnel. During the application review and approval process the
review agencies comment on the application, and can return it to GRIDCO for required
modifications. MOEF Clearance is not required if the joint line survey concludes that no forest
land is involved; in this case DOF will issue a letter to this effect. In case forest land is involved,
the application undergoes the following stages of review:
(a)   GRIDCO submits the application to the Divisional Forest Officer;
(b)   Divisional Forest Officer, after review and clearance, submits the application to the
Conservator of Forest;
(c)   Conservator of Forest, after review and clearance, submits the application to the
Principal Chief Conservator of Forest;
(d)   Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, after review and clearance, submits the
application to the Forest Department, Government of Orissa;
(e)   Principal Secretary, Forest Department, Government of Orissa, after review and
clearance, submits the application to the MOEF Inspector General. The Advisory
Committee of the Forest Department reviews the application and calls in the
beneficiaries, GRIDCO and the State Forest Officer, to discuss the proposal; and
(f)   approval comes to the Principal Secretary, Forest Department of Orissa. The
approval will contain details of any compensatory forest land approved by the
Revenue and Forest Departments. The land for compensatory afforestation is
provided by the state government; in addition, an assessment is made on a per acre
basis for compensatory afforestation activities.
Land Acquisition:
5.    Under the Indian Telegraph Act, transmission towers can be erected on private land;
however, compensation must be paid. The ownership of the land is not acquired by the
transmission company.



Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 8
Assessment Of Three Transmission Projects For Inclusion In The Project
Project descriptions
6.    The following three transmission projects will be included in the first phase of the loan.
220 kV DC Brajarajnagar - Bolangir:
7.    The construction activities include:
(a)   construction of a 220 kV DC line (170 km) from Brajrajnagar to Bolangir;
(b)   establishment of a 220/132 kV I x 100 MVA substation at Bolangir;
(c)   extension of two 220 kV feeder bays at Brajrajnagar; and
(d)   establishment of a PLCC network for the above.
220 kVDC Meramundali - Bidanasi:
8.    The construction activities include:
(a)   construction of 220 kV DC line (105 km) from Meramundali to Chandaka;
(b)   establishment of a 220/132 kV 2 x 100 MVA substation at Cuttack;
(c)   extension of feeder bays at Meramundali and Chandaka; and
(d)   establishment of a PLCC network for the above.
220 kV DC Duburi - Paradeep:
9.    The construction activities include:
(a)   construction of 220 kV DC line (100 km) from Duburi to Paradeep;
(b)   establishment of a 220/132 kV 2 x 100 MVA substation at Paradeep;
(c)   extension of two 220 kV feeder bays at Duburi;
(d)   inter-linking 220 kV Paradeep substation with Paradeep existing 132 kV
substation, (8 km of 132 kV DC line); and
(e)   establishment of a PLCC network for the above.



Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 8
Environmental issues and mitigation strategies
10.   The issues below have been addressed during the conceptual design.
Resettlement and rehabilitation:
11.   There will be no resettlement involved in the above projects.
Transmission line rights of way and substation site impacts on land use: agricultural and
forest areas, wetlands, wildiands:
12.   The 220 kV DC Duburi - Paradeep and the 220 kV DC Meramundali - Bidanasi
transmission lines do not cross forest land.. The 220 kV DC Brajarajnagar - Bolangir transmission
line involves 5 ha of forest land. With such a small amount of forest land involved, habitat
fragmentation and invasion of exotic vegetation species would not be an issue. Transmission line
towers will not impact agricultural land uses since the transmission company does not acquire
ownership of the rights of way. There are no wildlands involved in the transmission line routes.
Access roads in remote areas, increase in hunting, exploitation of forest resources, induced
development due to new access corridors, human settlement and more extensive clearing:
13.   With only 5 ha of forest land involved in one of the projects, these issues are not of
concern. Existing forest roads are used by GRIDCO for access, no new roads are built for this
purpose.
Clearing (erosion, loss of habitat) and control of vegetation in rights of ways, including
mechanical and chemical (herbicide) clearing operations, (chemical contamination of site
and rainfall runoff):
14.   After the power lines are strung on the towers, the forest department re-vegetates the
areas that have been cleared for construction. Chemical herbicides are not used in right-of-way
clearance.
Erosion during construction, and along access roads, substation and transmission tower
sites:
15.   GRIDCO will undertake a monitoring program of construction activities, steps will be
taken to control these impacts during construction. Maintenance of the new infrastructure will
include erosion control at the transmission tower bases (especially in hilly terrain) and substation
pads.



Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 8
Potential electromagnetic frequency (EMF) radiation effects, radio noise and television
interference, and audible noise along transmission line routes, exposure of substation
operations personnel to potential EMF hazards:
16.   Government of India regulations (Indian Electricity Rules, 1956) on minimum
transmission line clearance distances to address safety and EMF effects are applied by GRIDCO.
The Rules specify minimum horizontal and vertical distances between power lines, roads and
structures, and cover proximity to airports.
Public access to substations, towers and electrocution hazards, proximity to airports:
17.   GRIDCO will effect restriction of public access, by fencing and security of substations and
towers (required under Indian Electricity Rules). A consumer safety program is included in the
ODA technical assistance. The Indian Electricity Rules cover safety with regard to transporting
and storing materials near overhead lines, accessibility of bare conductors, danger notices,
provisions applicable to protective equipment, precautions to be adopted by consumers, owners,
electrical contractors, electrical workmen and suppliers, and inspections. The Indian Electricity
Rules also address safety and protective devices, such as distance relays and ground fault
protection.
Alternatves
18.   Alternatives selected by OSEB were based on criteria of energy conservation through
improved efficiency of the transmission system, that is, reduction of system losses and increased
reliability of the system. DSM will be addressed under the Project. Routes and substation sites
are selected for minimum impact on forest resources (a statutory requirement), and minimal
impact on crowded urban areas, (substation placement in Cuttack rather than Bhubaneswar for
instance). The transmission schemes chosen are double-circuit (DC) lines to minimize rights of
way requirements.
Technical Assistance
19.   A technical assistance component of the project will be provided, under an ODA grant, to
help implement Part A of the proposed project (Annex 4.3). It is to begin in mid-1996 and extend
for a period of about five years. Under this technical assistance the environmental management
capabilities of the Grid Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO) will also be developed. Activities of
the ODA technical assistance include:
(a)   development of an organization and staffing plan for the environmental
management unit (based on comparisons with similar utilities on an international
basis, as well as industrial organizations operating within the environmental
performance standards of the Government of India);
(b)   development of a corporate environmental policy for GRIDCO;



Annex 3.3
Page 6 of 8
(c)   development of systems to enable GRIDCO to meet the requirements of relevant
Indian (and where appropriate international) environmental standards in a cost
effective and efficient way;
(d)   development of systems to ensure that actions recommended by the environmental
management unit are acted upon by corporate management in GRIDCO, and
define methods to evaluate and monitor performance with respect to project
implementation;
(e)   ensure that contractual obligations or other measures are put into to comply with
GRIDCO's environmental policies;
(f)    develop capabilities with respect to environmental auditing;
(g)   a coordinated in-country training program for staff of the environmental
management unit of GRIDCO,
(h)   undertake a study tour to assess environmental management systems associated
with U}K transmission and distribution systems;
(i)   support GRIDCO's planning capability for new transmission systems by developing
environmental assessment (EA) procedures and establishing criteria for evaluating
direct and indirect environmental and social impacts associated with new
development proposals; and
(j)   undertake EAs of selected routes and standardize approaches adopted on issues
such as land severance.
Management of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB's)
20.          Prior to initiation of power distribution system rehabilitation under the Project,
when electrical equipment will be replaced, technical assistance will be provided to GRIDCO for
the environmentally sound management of PCB electrical equipment. The technical assistance will
cover as required based on the initial assessment, the management and cleanup of transformer
installations, discarded equipment, and the repair shop.
21.          Various components of the existing power systems are up to 30 years old, and
since the use of PCB's in electrical equipment was discontinued (in most countries) fairly recently,
some of the existing power system electrical equipment may contain PCB's. Based on Orissa's
own assessment in 1995, PCBs are not expected to be a major issue. The technical assistance will
nevertheless address the following:
(a)   development of environmental guidelines which review GOI (or international)
regulations concerning the use, retrofitting, storage and disposal practices for
PCB's and PCB electrical equipment;



Annex 3.3
Page 7 of 8
(b)   environmental guidelines should state which of the existing system electrical
equipment would be replaced, and if any of this equipment has been tested for
PCBs;
(c)   the environmental guidelines should detail how PCB electrical equipment and
PCB's would be tested or otherwise identified; and
(d)   the environmental guidelines should detail an environmentally sound PCB
management plan for safe storage and/or disposal of PCB electrical equipment.
The PCB management plan should include specifications for safe handling
practices, including personnel protective equipment and clothing, and the
environmental guidelines should provide details of safe transfer and secure storage
areas.
Monitoring
22.         The following monitoring plan will be adopted as a policy of GRIDCO to track the
effectiveness of mitigation techniques, and address recognized problems in an appropriate and
timely manner. Development of a system for bringing environmental problems to the attention of
management is included in the ODA technical assistance. Some of the items listed under the
following monitoring program do not relate to the three projects proposed; however, these issues
may relate to other GRIDCO transmission lines. This regular scheduled monitoring program will
consist chiefly of visual inspections during construction and operation for:
(a)   erosion along access roads, substation and transmission tower foundations;
(b)   encroachment of settlements within rights of ways, encroachment of settlements
within protected areas via transmission line access roads, exploitation of forest
resources in protected areas via access roads;
(c)   vegetation clearances below transmission lines, and invasion of exotic species
along right of ways;
(d)   transformer fluid leakage and spills; and
(e)   safe storage and disposal of PCBs.
Part B: Demand-Side Management (DSM)
23.   The overall environmental impact of the reform program is expected to be significantly
positive. Higher electricity tariffs and improved metering and collection will encourage electricity
conservation. Based on the work of the Metering Working Group of the Reform Implementation
Organization, about 2/3 of OSEB's meters are not working properly or are not functioning at all.
Part B will help GRIDCO purchase and install reliable meters to replace them. The



Annex 3.3
Page 8 of 8
implementation (physical installation) involves no impact on the environment. Once installed and
operational, the meters will facilitate accurate metering and on that basis correct billing of
consumers. Along with the increases in electricity rates introduced since 1992 and continuing
program of tariff adjustments, this will send the right price signals to consumers (for the first time
for most of them) and is expected to help contain the growth of electricity demand in Orissa. This
in turn will result in lower emissions from the generation plants that are operated to meet the
demand and help defer some of the new generation projects.
24.   The balance of Part B is for load research and direct measures to manage load and
conserve electricity. The load research program will help GRIDCO better understand how its
consumers use electricity. This will help in design of more effective tariff structures, which are
more responsive to the needs of the consumers and load management/conservation potential.
25.   Part B will also support a pilot program of other DSM investments. A comprehensive
technical assistance program will be implemented to help GRIDCO and electricity end-users
design and implement actual measures. Details are given in Annex 3.2.



Annex 3.4
Page I of I
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(USS million)
Half-yearly                       Cumulative
Bank FY Ending Quarter              Disbursements                       Disbursements
FY97
December31, 1996 a/                         11                                  11
June 30, 1997                                4                                  15
FY98
December31, 1997                            15                                  30
June30, 1998                                20                                  50
FY99
December31, 1998                            35                                  85
June 30, 1999                               45                                 130
FY2000
December31, 1999                            55                                 185
June 30, 2000                               45                                 230
FY2001
December 31, 2000                           40                                 270
June 30, 2001                               30                                 300
FY2002
December 31, 2001                           30                                 330
June 30, 2002                               20                                 350
Closing Date of Loan: December 31, 2002
a! Includes an initial US$6 million deposit into the Special Account



Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SCOPE OF WORK
OF INSTITUTION BUILDING CONSULTANTS
Background
I . The Government of Orissa (GOO) has committed itself to reform the power sector in
Orissa. GOO has decided to vertically disintegrate and unbundle the sector by creating the Orissa
Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC) and other generating companies, the Grid Corporation of
Orissa (GRIDCO), and establishing an independent regulator for regulating the various entities.
GOO's ultimate objective is to withdraw from the sector as a utility operator and to have private
sector utility organizations operating in a market regulated by an independent regulator. To
succeed in the commercialization and eventual privatization, OSEB's successor organizations
need to change the existing culture and approach to management. GRIDCO and OHPC need to
be result and customer oriented viable entities and therefore need to develop an appropriate
organizational structure, systems, and business processes, embodying the principles of managerial
autonomy, delegation and accountability. GOO has commenced a program to achieve these goals.
To assist GOO in carrying out an ambitious program of restructuring and assist new entities in
institutional development, the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) has provided a grant
of about US $ 18 million, which inter-alia covers phase 2 of the Reform Consultant's work as well
as Institution Building consultants. ODA has engaged a consortium led by Price Waterhouse
(UK) to assist GOO and the management of GRIDCO and OHPC in this task. Scope of work of
the consultants is detailed in the Terms of Reference, prepared by ODA in consultation with
GOO, designate management of new companies and the Bank, and is briefly set out below.
Scope of services
2.    The scope of service for the institutional building consultants includes, but not limited to
assistance to the management of GRIDCO and OHPC in the following:
(a)   establishing human resources strategy and function in each of the entities which
support the business objectives and goals of each entity;
(b)   establishing the training function within the entities;
(c)   developing and implementing an appropriate finance and accounting strategy,
plans, policy and procedures and advising management in establishing the
organizational structure for the finance function;



Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 4
(d)   developing an integrated management information system to provide timely and
reliable technical and non-technical information to monitor and control
performance of key business functions;
(e)   reviewing and assessing the future load dispatch requirements of GRIDCO in light
of the existing work being done by the reform consultants and POWERGRID; and
(f)   developing in-house capabilities for managing all above mentioned functions.
3.    Overview of the Terms of Reference is given below, for each key area of work (human
resources, training, finance, management information systems, and engineering and load dispatch).
4.    Human Resources:
(a)   Assist the chief executive and his team in each entity to develop the organization
structure, define jobs, competency profiles and person specifications, advise on
selections and to train them in recruitment procedures and selection techniques;
(b)   Develop and assist in implementation of the interim systems and procedures, such
as recruitment, grading and remuneration necessary to allow transfers from OSEB
and GOO owned hydro stations and external recruitment;
(c)   Develop, in conjunction with the chief executives and his team, the human
resources strategy, policy, procedures and practices needed to support the
corporate goals. This should include, among others, procedures for job evaluation,
remuneration structuring, performance appraisal and management and career
development plans;
(d)   Design and set up a comprehensive communication process for disseminating
information, improving involvement of personnel and to improving their
motivation; and
(e)   Establish the staffing requirement with due consideration to the emerging level of
operations for each of the entities and recommend options for dealing with surplus
staff
5.    Training:
(a)   Establish the training function with special attention to the staffing needs of this
function, appointment of staff, use of local agencies to support this function and
establishing procedures and guidelines required for the operation of this function.
A training manual may have to be prepared afresh by the consultants;
(b)   Identify the training needs for the management team with special consideration to
the new procedures, systems and hardware to be introduced and organize study
tours and executive development programs for training managers;



Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 4
(c)    Provide communications training for both internal and external purposes;
(d)   Identify and assist in designing training programs for managers and operational
staff in core and fuinctional skills like accounting, finance, MIS, operational
procedures and practices for technical staff and provide support in on-going
training programs; and
(e)    Assess the relevance and value of training programs and make appropriate
modifications and adjustments.
6.    Finance:
(a)   Develop and implement an appropriate finance and accounting strategy, plans and
organizational structure for finance function. Develop, implement and operate
effective financial management and accounting systems, including profit center and
cost center accounting. The consultants shall review the current accounting system
and suggest modifications required to adapt the accounting system to the
requirements under the Companies Act and design the cost accounting and
budgeting system with due consideration of the requirements of the regulator and
in determining tariffs,
(b)   Advise and train finance and non-finance management personnel in the
development and use of modern financial management tools, accounts and
techniques;
(c)   Establish the internal audit function to ensure quality of management decision,
system compliance and financial discipline;
(d)   Development of an interim and permanent billing and collection system with due
consideration to the number and location of billing centers required; and
(e)    Review the existing system and develop and implement an appropriate system for
stores management, and monitoring of inter-unit transfers.
7.    Management Information Systems (MIS):
(a)    Develop an information system strategy that will support GRIDCO and OHPC's
business strategy and assist in setting up the organization for carrying out this
function in terms of staffing, technology and its application;
(b)   Define activities and tasks required for implementing the IS strategy and installing
the new MIS;
(c)   Identify information and reporting needs at various levels for various business
functions within GRIDCO and OHPC and design an appropriate integrated
management information system to satisfy the information needs at various levels
of management;



Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 4
(d)   Define method of collecting information on disadvantaged consumers in order to
allow the entity, regulator and GOO to take suitable action to reduce the impact of
re-organization and reform on these consumers; and
(e)   Identify training needs to operate and maintain the hardware and software.
8.    Engineering and Load Dispatch:
(a)   Identify GRIDCO's speech and data communications requirement for operational
and administrative purposes in light of requirements of national, regional and state
load dispatch and GRIDCO's plans;
(b)   Survey existing OSEB communications system to determine equipment condition
and serviceability and recommend investments required;
(c)   Review GRIDCO's interim augmentation scheme for its state load dispatch center
(SLDC) and if, appropriate, prepare a cost estimate and investment plan of the
second phase data acquisition and communications system recommended;
(d)   Prepare an implementation plan of all the works required to implement the
investment plan; and
(e)   Assess OHPC and GRIDCO's requirement for operation and maintenance
including specialist training and develop engineering maintenance policies,
standards and procedures.



Annex 4.2
Page I of 3
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MANAGEMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Joint Project Steering Committee
Members:
Chairman, Chief Executive OHPC or GRIDCO (alternatively)
Chief Engineer, GRIDCO or OHPC (alternatively)
ODA Institutional Adviser
PW Project Director
Secretary (PW nominated)
Invited to attend:
Reform Project Manager
ODA advisors
World Bank representative(s)
Reform Consultant Project Director/Asst. Project Director
Role and Functions:
Review work of OHPC and GRIDCO Projects
*  Address/resolve issues forwarded by project steering groups
*  Agree any reallocation of PW resources between the two projects
*  Consider need for overall project resource variation
*  Identify and prepare issues for resolution by Reform Task Force and/or Steering Committee
and whether to be pursued through Orissa or Donor channels
Administration:
The Committee shall meet at least once in six months or more often as decided by the
CEOs of GRIDCO & OHPC. Price Waterhouse shall provide full secretarial support. The
minutes of the meeting shall be circulated to Reform Project Task Force & Steering
Committee, Reform Project Director, ODA, and the World Bank.



Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
Project Steering Group - GRIDCO
Members:
Chairman, Chief Executive GRIDCO
Appropriate Professional Board Members
Project Coordinator
PW Project Manager
Secretary (PW nominated)
Invited to attend:
Reform Project Manager
OHPC Project Coordinator
Reform Consultant Project Manager
WB/ODA if on-site
WB/ODA appointed Monitor if on-site
Role and Functions:
* Monitor progress against base-line project plan
* Determine/resolve policy, priorities and allocation of allocated resources.
* Identify and prepare issues for resolution at Joint Project Steering Meeting (OHPC, ODA or PW
resource related) or by Chairman with relevant GOO forum (GOO, wider policy or political related)
Administration:
The committee shall meet every three months or more often as decided by the Chairman. Price
Waterhouse shall provide full secretarial support. The minutes of the meeting shall be circulated
to the Reform Project Task Force, ODA and the World Bank.
Project Steering Group - OHPC
Members:
Chairman, Chief Executive OHPC
Appropriate Professional Board Members
Project Coordinator
PW Project Manager
Secretary (PW nominated)
Invited to attend:



Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
Reform Project Manager
GRIDCO Project Coordinator
Reform Consultant Project Manager
WB/ODA if on-site
WB/ODA appointed Monitor if on-site
Role and Functions:
*  Monitor progress against base-line project plan
*  Determine/resolve policy, priorities and allocation of allocated resources.
*  Identify and prepare issues for resolution at Joint Project Steering Meeting (GRIDCO, ODA
or PW resource related) or by Chairman with relevant GOO forum (GOO, wider policy or
political related)
Administration:
The committee shall meet every three months or more often as decided by the Chairman. Price
Waterhouse shall provide full secretarial support. The minutes of the meeting shall be circulated
to the Reform Project Task Force, ODA, the World Bank.
Operational Coordination
The Reform Project Manager and the Project Managers of the Reform Consultant and
Price Waterhouse will meet once a week at the minimum.



Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 11
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Background
1.    The Orissa power sector is undergoing fundamental restructuring with the separation of
generation from transmission and distribution and the creation of a new corporation, the Grid
Corporation of Orissa (GRIDCO). It is the aim of GRIDCO to privatize distribution by 2000.
Four zones have been created, one of these is now being operated under a management contract
leading later to a long lease or full privatisation. The other three zones will receive similar
treatment during the period of the project.
2.    GRIDCO operates about seven thousand km of 132 kV, 220 kV and 400 kV lines.
Transformer capacity from Transmission to Distribution is about 5,500 MVA. The distribution
system is operated at 33 kV, 11 kV and 400 V. There are about 10,000 route km of 33 kV lines,
50,000 km of 11 kV lines, 700 of 33/11 kV substations and 30,000 of 11/0.4 kV substations.
3.    GRIDCO will inherit from the Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB) a run down system
starved of investment and maintenance for many years. With the assistance of the Bank, ADB
and ODA, GRIDCO proposes to undertake a major investment program within the fiscal 1997 -
2003 period to overcome these deficiencies and to ensure that the increased generation capacity
can be transmitted and distributed to the end users with acceptable technical losses.
4.    To achieve this goal, GRIDCO has established a Project Management Unit (PMU). The
capacity of the organization inherited by GRIDCO is insufficient to undertake such a major
investment program. GRIDCO therefore requires substantial external assistance in the
establishment of the PMU and in the initial years of the investment program.
Objectives
5.    The objectives of this consultancy are:
(a)   to ensure that the project and sub-projects are implemented on time, within budget
and to the specified quality; and
(b)   to build the capacity of GRIDCO, and its successor entities in the distribution
zones, to plan and implement future major investments.



Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 11
Scope of Work
General
6.    These terms of reference are for consulting services to establish and lead a Project
Management Unit (PMU) within GRIDCO to manage power system projects for transmission
lines, substations, distribution systems and other related activities. The PMU will comprise
GRIDCO staff supported by the UK Consultants in consortium with approved National
consultants. The assignment is financed by ODA.
7.    The PMU will manage the execution of the work including;
+ preparation of Project Reports in a manner acceptable to financial institutions
including the Bank, ADB, ODA, PFC;
* preparation of contract packages;
* preparation of preliminary designs;
* review and revision of existing specifications and contract documents;
+ bid evaluation; and
* supervision during construction.
8.    The PMU will also carry out studies to determine the overall environmental impact of the
projects in accordance with Bank guidelines. The general scope of work is as set out below.
Project Definition Report
9.    The first task of the PMU will be the review and refinement of the overall scope of the
project, prepared by MONENCO AGRA under ADB funded Technical Assistance, and its
components within the framework defined herein. The findings will be summarized in the Project
Definition Report which will form the basis for the execution of the work.
10.   The Project Definition Report will define the scope of the project within the constraints of
the investments available and the requirements of GRIDCO. The Project Definition Report will
include a conceptual design, master schedule and budget, and the definition of the scope,
schedule, estimated cost of each contract, procurement strategy and description of each sub-
project to a level acceptable to the Bank, ADB, ODA etc. The project quality assurance plan will
also be established.
11.   The Project Definition Report will be issued in a number of separate parts, each part
relating to one of the project areas of transmission, EHV substations and distribution. It will also
include an executive summary/overview.



Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 11
12.   The technical sections of the Project Definition Report will also form the basis for the
design briefs for sub-project packages.
13.   Preliminary Design. The PMU shall prepare maps, layout drawings, electrical single line
diagrams and major equipment lists and a project execution plan which, together with the design
brief, will provide sufficient technical information to permit proposals to be solicited for
completion of the works as turnkey projects. The PMU will prepare project reports in
accordance with approved criteria agreed with the relevant financial institution.
14.   The PMU shall review and revise as necessary GRIDCO's equipment technical
specifications and commercial contract documents to ensure they are compatible with the
requirements for international competitive bidding (ICB) and in accordance with the practices of
the Bank, ADB or ODA as applicable.
15.   The PMU shall develop a coordinated implementation schedule. This schedule shall form
the basis for establishing a computerized project execution program which will be used to control
all facets of the project including cost control and monitoring of procurement. The associated
software will be provided to GRIDCO at the commencement of the project. Any improvements
developed during the course of the project will be incorporated. At the end of the project, the
software will remain the property of GRIDCO.
16.   Contract Procurement. When necessary, the PMU shall pre-qualify potential contractors
and prepare and issue requests for formal tenders to them in accordance with the relevant financial
institution's guidelines on procurement and accepted international practices. The PMU shall make
an evaluation of all tenders received and submit the results of the evaluation in an evaluation
report to GRIDCO and the Bank/ADB/ODA for approval.
17.   The PMU shall conduct negotiations leading to contract awards to the selected bidder.
18.   Contract Monitoring. The PMU shall monitor all works of contractors and suppliers to
ensure the quality of the equipment supplied and the work carried out are generally in accordance
with the contract documents and the technical specifications. It shall include the witnessing of
tests for major equipment components and the testing of the design of overhead line steel
structures and poles, the equipment the contractor proposes to use to carry out the work and,
where appropriate, the strength of foundations.
19.   The PMU shall provide site monitoring and verification of all projects and sub projects and
the quantities of work executed by the contractor. The PMU will assign a field inspector to each
contract or group of contracts depending on the size of the project and its geographical location.
20.   Bulk Purchase. The PMU will define bulk purchase requirements for large and long
delivery items which will be purchased under ICB rules using the facilities of the national
consultant if required on behalf of GRIDCO, together with the appropriate spares and specialized
maintenance equipment for all such purchases. Items not procured in bulk will be supplied by the
turnkey contractor.



Annex 4.3
Page 4 of 11
21.   Project Control Systems and Procedures. The PMU will establish project control systems
and procedures to cover schedule, cost, procurement activities, construction and commissioning,
documentation, manuals, etc. If possible, GRIDCO would like project planning systems to be
based on Microsoft Project as they are already familiar with this system. All necessary hardware
and software will be provided under the consultancy.
22.   The project execution plan will be used to define all facets of the execution of the work. A
separate execution plan will be established for each sub project.
23.   Training. In carrying out these activities, the consultant shall provide support to GRIDCO
project staff in all phases of the work. Emphasis will be placed on "on the job training" of key
GRIDCO staff with the objective that they could carry out projects without the help of outside
consultants.
24.   The PMU shall provide training to GRIDCO staff in the principles and practices of project
management techniques, including the use of computerized systems. The training provided to
GRIDCO staff shall be at such a level that, on completion of the projects, they should have
acquired the expertise to carry out similar projects without the assistance of outside consultants.
25.   Reporting. The PMU shall prepare project progress reports in accordance with approved
criteria agreed with the Bank/ADB/ODA, as applicable.
Transmission Lines
26.   The transmission line component of the project will comprise new EHT lines and
upgrading of existing lines. Transmission line projects will be divided into suitable simultaneously
executed packages to enable better project control and expeditious completion. Projects may
include survey, route clearing, optimal line design, procurement of equipment materials and
structures, (some of which will be made by bulk purchases by GRIDCO), transporting to site,
construction and commissioning of the lines. Each of the transmission line projects shall be
executed in accordance with a dedicated project schedule which shall be integrated and
coordinated by the PMU within an overall schedule for all projects.
27.   The general scope of the PMU's work in relation to the transmission line project area will
include:
* Define the scope of the project;
* Prepare a project definition report;
* Prepare a transmission line design brief (or several as required);
* Prepare maps and drawings sufficient to define the extent of the work and contract
packages;
* Define land and access requirements;



Annex 4.3
Page 5 of 11
* Prepare performance specifications and review existing OSEB technical specifications,
* Review GRIDCO turnkey contract documents and revise as required;
* Pre-qualify potential contractors;
*  Issue invitations for tenders;
*  Evaluate bids and prepare bid evaluation report;
+ Prepare contract documents and award contracts;
* Witness factory testing of equipment and structures;
* Monitor contract performance to determine general contractual and technical
conformance;
*  Certify progress for payment; and
* Prepare quarterly and project completion reports.
Substations
28.   The substations component of the program will include extension to existing substations at
400, 220 and 132 kV to provide for the integration into the system of the new transmission lines.
In addition, changes will be made in a number of substations to provide for additional or
replacement of 132/33 kV transformers. Each substation project will include design and
specification of equipment to ensure compatibility with existing equipment where necessary,
procurement of all equipment relays and cables some of which will be provided through bulk
purchases by GRIDCO, civil works, erection, testing and commissioning. At each of the new
and/or existing substations where new lines are terminated, the programming of the works shall be
coordinated by the PMU with the line construction schedule and integrated into one overall
construction schedule for all projects.
# The general scope of the PMUs work in relation to the substation project area will
include:
* Define the scope of the project;
* Prepare a Project Definition Report;
* Prepare a substation design brief (or several as required);



Annex 4.3
Page 6 of 11
* Prepare layout drawings, electrical single line diagrams, major equipment requirements
and location maps in sufficient detail to define the extent of the work and define
contract packages;
* Define land and access requirements;
* Prepare performance specification and review GRIDCO technical specifications;
* Review GRIDCO turnkey contract documents and revise as required;
* Pre-qualify potential contractors;
* Issue invitations for tenders;
+ Evaluate bids and prepare evaluation report;
* Prepare contract documents and award contracts;
* Witness factory testing of equipment;
* Monitor contract performance to determine general contractual and technical
conformance;
* Certify progress for payment; and
* Prepare quarterly and project completion report.
Distribution Systems
29.   The sub-transmission and distribution upgrading projects are proposed to be grouped into
four geographically defined packages which will include a number of sub projects. The projects
on both 33 kV and 11 kV systems will include installation of equipment and construction of lines.
Each package will include the detailed design and specification of 33 kV and 11 kV lines and new
substations. It will also include sizing and location of capacitor banks and new distribution
transformers and the rehabilitation of the existing system to ensure overall optimum performance.
Each of the activities in each package will be programmed separately and integrated to form four
overall comprehensive execution programs.
30.   This section lists the general scope of the PMU's work in relation to the distribution
project area:
* Define the scope of the project;
* Prepare a Project Definition Report;
* Establish data requirements and implement acquisition program;



Annex 4.3
Page 7 of II
* Prepare a distribution systems design brief (or several as required);
* Prepare layout drawings and define equipment locations, prepare overhead line route maps
and
* electrical single line diagrams and define contract packages;
*  Define land and access requirements;
*  Review GRIDCO equipment technical specification;
* Pre-qualify potential contractors;
*  Issue invitations for tenders;
*  Evaluate bids and prepare evaluation report;
*  Prepare contract documents and award contracts;
*  Monitor contract performance to determine general contractual and technical confbrmance;
*  Certify progress for payment;
*  Prepare quarterly and project completion report.
31.   The general scope of the PMU's work in relation to the above should give priority to
reduction of technical losses. Projects requiring technical improvements resulting from the
program to reduce non-technical losses will be included in the scope of the PMU.
Project Management Training
32.   The Consultant's staff will work closely with the staff of GRIDCO in the PMU to ensure
an adequate transfer of technology. It is the intent that, upon completion of these projects,
GRIDCO will retain the capability to manage future projects without the use of outside
consultants.
33.   To achieve this, the Consultant will involve GRIDCO in the development of all procedures
for project control to typically include planning and reporting procedures, cost control, work
measurement and definition of the data for computerized project management.



Annex 4.3
Page 8 of 1I
Environmental Management and Assessment
34.   GRIDCO and the funding agencies place high priority on environmental issues. The PMU
will specifically develop environmental management skills of GRIDCO. The consultants shall
assist in developing a corporate environmental policy for transmission and distribution projects
and develop systems to ensure that this policy is acted upon by GRIDCO, its suppliers and
distributors and define methods to evaluate and monitor performance with respect to project
implementation. Additional details of the environmental issues and the technical assistance to be
included in the assignment are given in Annex 3.5.
35.   The PMU will prepare an environmental impact assessment of the whole project in which
it will define the effects in relation to base line data which, if not available in published form, will
be established. The impact statement will conform to Annex 3.5 guidelines for defining the effects
of the project(s) and will be carried out as one of the initial tasks to be performed and included in
the project definition document. The objective of this assessments includes a review of the
assessment undertaken during the preparation of the Bank loan to finance the program and
incorporate the findings into the work program in individual transmission lines, substations and
distribution sub-projects. Each project report will include a section documenting, reviewing and
refining if necessary the relevant sections of the overall environmental assessment.
Methodology
Establishment of PMU
36.   To execute the project within the time frame envisaged will call for fundamental changes
in existing procedures and practices inherited by GRIDCO which have been developed over many
years and were institutionalized in the former OSEB. Under an ongoing consultancy, GRIDCO is
receiving technical assistance in an Institutional Strengthening Project (ISP). As part of the ISP, a
new organization has been developed, a copy of the latest organization chart is attached. It is
currently anticipated that he PMU will be set up under the Director Corporate Planning and that
two teams will be established, one under the Corporate Chief Engineer and the other under
Director Distribution. The final organization of the PMU will be discussed and resolved to the
satisfaction of the Bank, ADB and ODA during the inception phase of the assignment. The PMU
will have the necessary authority and facility to streamline the activities.
37.   Assuming the above organization, the consultant's team leader will act as an expert
supporting the Director Corporate Planning & Divestiture. Under the team leader there will be
two teams of specialists, one assigned to the Corporate Chief Engineer for transmission and
substation activities and the other to the Technical Manager Distribution. Specialists will be
provided in each group to support all aspects of the PMU activities. The specialists will not have
executive authority, this will be exercised by GRIDCO staff. However, Specialists shall be full
members of tender committees which decide on award of tenders.
38.   The consultants will be expected to be involved in establishing and staffing the Project
Management Unit to manage power system development projects within GRIDCO. In addition to



Annex 4.3
Page 9 of II
GRIDCO staff and the consultants' personnel, the unit will include engineers and specialists from
national consultants acceptable to ODA, Bank and GRIDCO. This team will thus provide the
technical and management expertise and the local knowledge necessary to address and resolve the
diverse range of issues requiring to be addressed in such a plan. The interrelationship between the
member organizations which comprise the PMU will be determined during initial discussion
between the consultants and GRIDCO. The participation of the national consultants will be
determined based on the expertise and availability of personnel.
39.   The procurement in bulk of large long delivery items may, if appropriate, be carried out by
a procurement agent who will perform this function within the PMU under the direction of
GRIDCO who will enter into a separate contract for this work.
Project Management System
40.   The consultant will assist the PMU to develop an integrated infrastructure through which
to program and execute the development of the power system in the State of Orissa. It will
introduce the application of modem project management techniques using a well known PC based
project management system which will be applied to planning scheduling, cost control, document
control, procurement tracking, and contract progress reporting and certification to the extent
required and to suit the contract strategy selected.
41.   To support the application of the Project Management System the consultants will include
personnel with the appropriate background and expertise including short term specialists to
establish the procedures and methods for implementation of the system.
42.   An important component of the project execution will be the development and application
of effective cost control procedures. To realize this, the consultants' personnel will establish the
appropriate procedures which, when implemented with the project management system, will
provide the comprehensive project control required.
Procurement
43.   The initial activities to be carried out will be the identification and definition of the scope
of each of the sub-projects in transmission lines, substations and distribution systems, and
integrating them into a comprehensive coordinated project. In parallel with this activity will be
the pre-qualification of large bulk equipment suppliers and turnkey construction contractors.
Project Phasing
The strategy to be adopted in the execution of the development projects can be separated into three
phases. These are described briefly as follows:
(a)   Phase 1 - Project Definition and Preliminary Design
(i)   includes definition of the scope of design briefs of each of the individual
sub-projects, identification and definition of the bulk purchase items to be



Annex 4.3
Page 10 of II
procured, review of specifications and procurement documents, solicitation
of bids, evaluation and award of contract for bulk purchase items, and
carrying out the environment impact study.
(b)   Phase 2 - Contract Procurement
(i)   includes grouping of the sub-projects into contract packages by type of
work and geographical location, preparation of the contract packages in
sufficient detail to permit turnkey bids to be; made for their execution,
evaluation of bids and contract award. This phase will also include the
installation and training of the Computerized Project Management System.
(c)   Phase 3 - Contract Monitoring
(i)   includes monitoring the progress on turnkey contract packages and project
expenditures.
Training of GRIDCO staff will be included in all three phases.
Project Schedule
44.   The overall project schedule is attached. This indicates the initial tasks of project
definition, conceptual design and contract packaging and procurement in parallel with the
environmental assessments and establishment of systems and procedures.
45.   The schedule is produced in two parts. Part 1 shows the activities in the initial 12 month
period during which almost all of the engineering, review specifications and contract documents
are carried out and represents the period of the most intensive activity.
46.   The second part of the schedule shows the remainder of the construction period from 13
to 60 months.
47.   It is expected that the level of support will reduce significantly during and after the third
year of the project. Staffing levels will be reviewed regularly against the capacity of GRIDCO to
implement the project.
48.   The project schedules are shown as a guide and no consideration is given to unknown
local factors which may influence the various activities.
Organisation and Staffing
Organisation
49.   Project Definition as well as overall planning and control of the Project will be carried out in
the Corporate Chief Engineer's Department. The implementation of the components of the Project will



Annex 4.3
Page 11 of 11
be undertaken by the Transmission and Distribution Departments as appropriate. PMU consultant
team leaders and specialists work with GRIDCO staff in the concerned departments.
Staffing
50.   To staff the project, the Consultant shall provide a team of professionals with previous
experience in similar work. The team will include managers, engineers, and contract, cost control
and scheduling specialists. They will have experience of working within a power utility including
in developing country
51.   In view of their experience nationally, GRIDCO would like the consultants to associate
with POWERGRID in the areas of Procurement and Transmission Lines and Substations. It was
therefore required that all proposers provide for the involvement of POWERGRID. Staff
provided by National consultants (including POWERGRID) shall have similar backgrounds to the
Consultant and bring to the team considerable experience on similar work throughout India.
52.   Staff to be provided by GRIDCO within the PMU will be defined at the time of contract
and should include managers, engineers and other project-related disciplines. As a minimum,
GRIDCO will provide the deputy project manager and counterpart staff in the areas of project
controls, procurement and construction supervision. These personnel provided by GRIDCO
should be in sufficient numbers and of skill levels such that, on completion of the project, the
necessary institutional reinforcement will have taken place to enable GRIDCO to carry out similar
projects without outside assistance. GRIDCO will provide profiles of the individuals who should
participate in the project.



Annex 4 4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECT APPRAISAL CRITERIA
1.    Project reports to be submitted shall establish compliance with the following eligibility
criteria for projects to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan. The approval of project
appraisal reports is not a condition to advance procurement or initial disbursement for bulk
procurement items.
GREDCO Transmission and Distribution Projects under Part A
2.    The justification (in the context of the overall transmission and distribution development
plan) and technical feasibility of the proposed transrnissionr and distribution investment shall have
been established to the satisfaction of the Bank;
3.    All clearances/approvals including envirornental clearances shall have been obtained from the
relevant ministries, departments, agencies and other authorities of the Government of India and the
Orissa governnent and documented in the project report;
4.    An environmental assessment shall have been carned out, and an environmental mitigation
plan, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan, if needed based on the environmental assessment report and
a plan for the handling of mnaterials to be replaced in the rehabilitation program, satisfactory to the
Bank, shall have been prepared; and
5.    A procurement plan shall have been prepared in accordance with the overall procurement
strategy, namely bulk procurement of main items, turnkey construction by pre-qualified contractors
(except for these owner-supplied main items).
Private Distribution under Part A
6.    Same as above for GRIDCO sub-projects; and
7.    A lease or privatization arrangement for the concerned distribution area acceptable to the
Bank and a lease or lending arrangement for the use of equipment financed under the Bank loan
shall have been concluded between GOO/GRIDCO and the private distributor.



Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 2
Demand-Side Management Investments under Part B
8.    Justification and technical feasibility of the proposed investment shall have been
established to the satisfaction of the Bank.
9.    Implementation arrangement (including a lease or lending arrangement) for the use of
equipment financed under the Bank loan acceptable to the Bank shall have been concluded
between GRIDCO and the end-user of equipment.
10.   Financing and procurement plans acceptable to the Bank shall have been prepared.
11.   DSM projects under Part B below a threshold value of US$ 200,000 shall not require
prior Bank approval.



Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW PLAN
1.    Project Management and Progress Reporting. GRIDCO and OHPC, with the help of
the their consultants, will continue to implement the project. The overall implementation plan of
the reform program has been developed by the Reform Implementation Organization and the
Reform Consultant using a computerized project management program. Implementation will be
monitored by the Government of Orissa - and the financiers including the Bank and ODA.
Regular meetings will review, monitor and refine the work plans for the preceding, current and
following two months. Such Project Board Meetings are being held every 6-8 weeks.
2.    GRIDCO will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports covering the work of Project
Management Unit (PMU), procurement, physical progress of project components, disbursements,
and various administrative and financial aspect of the Project. GRIDCO will be assisted in
progress reporting by PMU consultants for Part A and by the consultants to be engaged by ODA
to help implement the DSM component under Part B. OHPC will be similarly assisted by the
consultants to be engaged by ODA to help implement the environmental management component
under Part C. GRIDCO and OHPC will also submit to the Bank, quarterly information on
receivables against supply of power, age-analysis of receivables, commercial payables, cash-flow
statement, and every six-months ( i.e. at the end of June and December) information on estimated
rates of return on equity and self financing ratios. The formats for these reports have been
submitted to the Orissa government. GRIDCO and OHPC will also furnish to the Bank annually
financial and audit reports.
3.    Bank Reviews. Implementation review missions will inter alia review the Orissa
government's progress in the implementation of the reform program and compliance with the
power sector policy statement covenanted under the Project. In view of the nature of the reform
program it supports, the Project will require much more than standard Bank supervision time and
is estimated to require about 40 weeks per year in the first two years, reducing gradually
thereafter. The Project will be reviewed annually in the first three years at the depth of a regular
mid-term review.
4.    A part of the Project's intensive supervision effort will be carried out by two restructuring
experts and a private power expert, consultants engaged by the Bank to review the original
reform program in early 1994.
5.    Review Missions. The following implementation review mission schedule is proposed:
(a)   FY96 (second hal: Two implementation review missions of Bank staff (Task
Manager/Institutional/Economics and Finance disciplines, plus participation by
Environment and R&R, Engineering and DSM in at least one of them). The first



Annex 4.5
Page 2 of 5
mission was fielded in March 1996. Two visits, one by a restructuring experts and
one by the private power expert, some of their visits coinciding with the Bank
missions;
(b)   FY97 - FY99: Four implementation review missions of Bank staff (Task
Manager/Institutional/ Economics and/or Finance disciplines, plus participation by
Environment and R&R, Engineering and DSM disciplines in at least two of them).
One of the missions will be an annual review equivalent to a normal mid-term
review. Possibly additional visits by the Bank team's Delhi-based members to
examine specific urgent issues. Four visits, every three months, by one of the two
restructuring experts, three visits, once in every four months, by the private power
expert, some of their visits coinciding with the Bank missions;
(c)   FY2000-FY2002: three implementation review missions of Bank staff (Task
Manager/Institutional/Economics and Finance disciplines, plus participation by
Environment and R&R, Engineering and DSM disciplines in at least two of them).
Possibly additional visits by the Bank team's Delhi-based members to examine
specific urgent issues; and
(d)   FY2003: The Implementation Completion Review.
6.    ODA Monitoring. It is expected that ODA will co-finance the project and will
participate in monitoring the implementation of the reform program. This is in continuation of
ODA's active participation since mid-1994 and close coordination and consultation between the
Bank and ODA is expected to continue. Some of the regular supervision missions are expected to
be joint Bank/ODA missions.
Schedule and Milestones
7.    Orissa's progress reports will specifically indicate and implementation review missions and
monitoring consultants will monitor the achievements with respect to the following reform
program and project milestones:
GRIDCO
Reform Program Milestones
* Reform Program, phase 2 and 3 work plan milestones for GRIDCO, will be monitored by
each mission, on the basis of the phase 2 and 3 plans and the monthly work plans.
* Five-year staff transition plan; implementation compared to the plan, bi-annual
monitoring, in the first two years quarterly.
*  complete the transfer of staff to the new cadre by March 31, 1997, quarterly monitoring.



Annex 4.5
Page 3 of 5
* Institution building program, quarterly progress reports covering inter alia progress of
work as per consultant TOR, quarterly monitoring.
* Privatization of GRIDCO's distribution system by December 31, 2000, in accordance with
a program satisfactory to the Bank, milestones as per the program for each of the four
areas to be privatized. The first privatization is a condition of disbursement under Part A
of the project.
* Listing its shares and offering them for sale to the public, in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Bank.
* Competitive bidding for the next generation project, review progress according to the
schedule still to be established.
Project Implementation Milestones
* Procurement (pre-qualification, bidding, evaluation, contract awards, disbursements) and
implementation (delivery, installation, commissioning), quarterly monitoring, separately
for each major contract under Part A and meters for Part B. Format of report as per
POWERGRID's reports under Ln. 3577-IN.
* Project reports, quarterly monitoring.
* DSM projects under Part B, quarterly monitoring for each project.
OHPC
Reform Program Milestones
* Reform Program, phase 2 and 3 work plan milestones for OHPC, will be monitored
monthly, on the basis of the phase 2 and 3 plans and the monthly work plans for the
preceding, current and following two months.
* Five-year staff transition plan; implementation compared to the plan, bi-annual
monitoring, in the first two years quarterly.
* Development of the cadre by March 31, 1997, quarterly monitoring
* Institution building program, quarterly progress reports covering inter alia progress of
work as per consultant TOR, quarterly monitoring.
* Listing of its shares and offering them for sale to the public, in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Bank.



Annex 4.5
Page 4 of 5
THE ORISSA GOVERNMENT
*  Establishment of the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission, a condition of
disbursement under Part A of the project
*  Processing annually of the Commission's budget and provision of adequate funds, annual
review.
*  Disinvestment a part of its equity in GRIDCO and OHPC at levels and in accordance with
a program satisfactory to the Bank, milestones as per the program.
*  Provision of subsidies to utilities if required as per tariff policy. Compliance with policy
commitment to reduce cross-subsidies.
THE COMMISSION
*  Reform Program, phase 2 and 3 work plan and institution building program milestones for
the Commission, will be monitored quarterly.
3  Publishing its Regulations, a part of the condition of disbursement under Part A of the
project
*  Performance review, annually in the first three years, focus on:
*  Tariff Rulings, regular reviews of proceedings and the Orissa government subsidy and
cross-subsidy issues (annual adjustments projected to be required).
*  Licensing
Key performance indicators
8.    A total of 14 key performance indicators would be monitored and rated by supervision
missions. Four of them are one-time actions, the other ten are actions with annual targets. The
indicators are presented in Table 1. Targets to be met by the end of each fiscal year as indicated
in Table 1, with Ratings fully satisfactory, satisfactory, unsatisfactory and fully unsatisfactory:
Fully satisfactory if quantitative target met or exceeded, action taken and on schedule
Satisfactory if quantitative target substantially achieved, action reasonably completed and
slightly behind schedule
Unsatisfactory if quantitative target clearly missed, action only partially completed and/or
severely behind schedule, with reasonable corrective actions
Fully unsatisfactory if quantitative target repeatedly missed, action substantially incomplete
and/or severely behind schedule without sufficient corrective action



Annex 4.5
Page 5 of 5
Table 1: Key Performance Indicators
GREDCO                                        1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
1. Staff Cadre transfer and                   yes
personnel policies completed
2. system loss reduction                      40%   35%   30%   25%   23%   22%
3. financial performance
return on equity (minimum)                    10    16    16    16    16
debt service (minimum)                        1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
accounts receivable (maximum)          2      2      2     2      2     2
accounts payable (maximum)             2      2      2     2      2     2
4. Privatization of GRIDCO's distribution system   as per a satisfactory program and timetable
5. Listing and divestment of shares           as per a satisfactory program and timetable
6. First Competitive Bidding Process Completed   as per a satisfactory program and timetable
7. DSM component disbursed (% of US$80 m)    5%    40%   60%   70%   85%   100%
OHPC                                          1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
8. Staff Cadre transfer and                   yes
personnel policies completed
9. financial performance
return on equity (minimum)                    16    16    16    16    16
debt service (minimum)                        1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
accounts receivable (maximum)          2      2     2      2      2     2
accounts payable (maximum)             2      2     2      2      2     2
1 0. Listing and divestment of shares         as per a satisfactory program and timetable
Regulatory Commission                         1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
11. Establishment process completed           yes
12. Adequate Budget Provided                  yes   yes   yes   yes   yes   yes
(by the end of preceding fiscal year)
13. Licenses issued (GRIDCO and distributors)   yes   yes   yes   yes   yes   yes
14. Satisfactory tariff rulings issued        yes   yes   yes   yes   yes   yes



Annex 5.1
Page I of 12
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Economic Viability of Orissa's Investment Program. The analysis focuses on Orissa's
core investment program which is supported in part by the proposed Bank loan. The economic
rate of return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams
associated with the FY1997-2003 time-slice of Orissa's investment program. The time-slice
period covers the construction and first few years of operation of lb Valley thermal plants (units
1-4); the Upper Indravati hydro plant; the rehabilitation work on Hirakud hydro plant; the
expansion and upgrading of the transmission and distribution system; and, the implementation of a
demand side management (DSM) program.
2.    Costs. The investment plan is discussed in Annex 2.3, and GRIDCO's is reviewed in
detail in Annex 3.1. Projects completed during the time-slice period were taken as the time-slice
investment program. Financial costs of that program were converted to economic terms by
excluding taxes and duties and by applying a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 to the
residual local costs. The resulting total time-slice investments are shown in table 1.
3.    The economic costs of oil products were estimated using the Bank's oil price projections.
The economic costs of coal used in this analysis correspond to the Bank's estimates for Orissa in
the 1991 study Long Term Issues in the Power Sector, updated to 1995 prices. Also shown in
table I are Orissa's other incremental (in excess of 1996, the base year of the analysis) operations
and maintenance (O&M) costs, taken from OHPC's, OPGC's and GRIDCO's financial projection
and converted into economic terms by applying the SCF. Table I also includes Orissa's
incremental power purchases from NTPC, taken from GRIDCO's financial projections. Since
NTPC's tariffs are in line with its long-run marginal costs (LRMC), reflected in the 14.7% rate of
return of its investment program (as per SAR of the NTPC Power Generation Project), the SCF
was not applied to power purchases. Fuel, power purchases and O&M costs of the last year of
the time-slice investment period were kept constant in real terms through FY2022, the operating
period of the time-slice investments.
4.    Benefits. For the purposes of the first round of ERR calculations, GRIDCO's incremental
tariff revenue was used as a proxy for economic benefits. GRIDCO's tariffs are discussed in
Annex 2.5. Tariff revenue is regarded to be a minimum measure of the actual benefits as it
reflects only a portion of the total benefits of electricity supply; yet the ERR of the program is
satisfactory at about 14.5% with this conservative revenue-based benefit valuation. The
incremental tariff revenue is shown in table 1.
5.    Economic Valuation of Benefits. A more accurate valuation of the economic benefits of
electricity supply was carried out for the second round of ERR calculations to complement the
revenue-based valuation. The valuation was undertaken in two parts: (a) first, for each consumer



Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 12
category, the fuel substitution and induced consumption shares of the incremental electricity
supply are estimated, and (b) second, sales replacing the use of alternative energy are valued at
the economic cost of the alternative energy source, and induced sales are valued by estimating the
willingness to pay for this incremental consumption for each consumer category.
6.    Fuel Substitution. The shares of incremental electricity supply assumed to replace an
alternative energy source in each consumer category are the following: 10% for domestic, 50%
for commercial and industrial, and 20% for agriculture. The economic benefit of fuel substitution
is the resulting economic resource cost saving. That is, the economic cost of alternative energy
which the country saves by using electricity. These benefits are shown in tables 2, 3 and 4.
7.    Induced Consumption. The shares of incremental electricity supply corresponding to
induced consumption are: 90% for domestic, 50% for commercial and industrial, and 80% for
agriculture. Induced consumption was valued by estimating the consumer's willingness to pay for
this part of incremental electricity supply and adding the related consumer's surplus benefits to the
tariff-based revenues from above consumer categories. Present excess demand indicates that
consumers' willingness to pay for public electricity exceeds existing tariffs levels. Willingness to
pay for the induced consumption is related to the financial costs of the alternative supply. The
financial costs of the main alternative sources of energy to the different consumer categories
(diesel generators for industrial and commercial consumers, and diesel pumps for agriculture
consumers) are shown in tables 5 and 6. This provided the upper limit of the willingness to pay
and consumer's surplus, defined as the difference of what the consumer would be willing to pay
(measured here on the basis of what the consumer pays for the alternative sources of energy) and
what the consumer pays for electricity.
8.    Given the sensitivity of demand to price for the various categories of consumers, only a
portion of the maximum consumer's surplus benefits was assumed for the valuation of induced
sales. For each consumer category, the assumed portion was multiplied by the difference between
the maximum willingness to pay and the prevailing financial tariff, then shadow priced using the
SCF of 0.9 and then added to the financial tariff. This yields the total economic benefit of induced
consumption. The portions (shares) of the maximum consumer's surplus benefits assumed in this
analysis were the following: (a) the base case scenario assumes 50% (i.e. assumes a linear demand
curve) for industrial and commercial consumers, and 30% (i.e. assumes a strongly convex demand
curve) for residential and agriculture consumers; (b) sensitivity analysis 1 assumes more
conservative estimates of the consumers' willingness to pay, and accordingly, a 30% for industrial
and commercial consumers and no consumer's surplus (i.e. values benefit of induced consumption
at tariff) for residential and agriculture consumers; and (c) sensitivity analysis 2 excludes the
consumer's surplus entirely, and only the prevailing tariff was taken as the economic value of
induced consumption.
9.    Industrial Consumers. For industrial consumers it was assumed that in the absence of
grid supply, there would be substantial generation using diesel generators. Accordingly, it was
assumed that 50% of the incremental electricity supply would replace diesel generators. This
additional generation was valued at the economic cost of autogeneration based on 200-400 kW
diesel generators, assuming a plant utilization factor of 70% since this electricity should be



Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 12
compared with back-up systems running for long periods of time (table 3). (The 70% estimate is
relatively high, but conservative for the purpose of this analysis, as using a lower plant utilization
factor would increase the economic resource cost saving and result in higher ERRs). The 50%
balance of incremental sales was assumed to be induced consumption. In computing the financial
costs for this supply, a 15% plant utilization factor was assumed, on the basis that the consumers
current willingness to pay involves back-up systems actually running for short periods of time.
The base case assumes a linear demand curve, and accordingly, takes a 50% of maximum
consumer's surplus benefits, based on 200-400 kW diesel generators (table 6). Sensitivity case I
assumes a strongly convex demand curve (30% of maximum consumer's surplus benefits), and
sensitivity case 2 assumes no consumer's surplus.
10.   Commercial Consumers. The assumptions made for industrial consumers are also made
for commercial consumers. However, it was assumed that commercial consumers would use 50
kW diesel generators for their autogeneration. Tables 3 and 6 give the corresponding economic
and financial costs.
11.   Domestic Consumers. For domestic consumers it was assumed that only 10% of the
incremental sales would be for the replacement of kerosene. Table 4 gives the corresponding
economic costs. The balance 90% of additional supply was assumed to be induced consumption,
and was valued by estimating the willingness to pay for this supply, based conservatively, on 50
kW diesel generators. Although it would be theoretically more appropriate to compute the
financial costs of kerosene lighting to estimate the willingness to pay for induced consumption,
the financial costs of diesel generation were considered more practical since most of the induced
consumption such as refrigeration and ventilation are not expected to be met with kerosene. Had
the financial costs been estimated using smaller (1-10 kW) diesel generators or kerosene lighting
(table 4), the values would be much higher, thus resulting in higher rates of return. The base case
assumes a consumer's surplus equivalent to 30% of the financial costs of autogeneration.
Sensitivity cases 1 and 2 assume no consumer's surplus, and the prevailing tariff was taken as the
willingness to pay.
12.   Agriculture Consumers. For agriculture consumers it was assumed that 20% of the
incremental sales would replace diesel pumps, and accordingly, this supply was valued at the
economic resource cost saving (table 2). The balance 80% of additional electricity supply was
assumed to be induced consumption. Table 5 gives the corresponding financial costs. The base
case assumes a strongly convex demand curve, and accordingly takes consumer's surplus benefits
at 30% of the financial costs of autogeneration. Sensitivity cases I and 2 assume no consumer's
surplus, and therefore the prevailing tariff was taken as the willingness to pay.
13.   Results of Economic Valuation of Benefits. The ERR under the base case scenario was
16.8%. Sensitivity analysis I yielded an ERR of 14.1%, and sensitivity analysis 2 yielded an ERR
of 13.2%. Details of the computations are shown in table 7.
14.   Robustness of the Program. Orissa's time-slice ERR is not significantly affected by
changes in the costs of the investment program and in the implementation schedules of its
individual components. The Upper Indravati project remains an economically attractive low-cost



Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 12
source of electricity in spite of its implementation delays. lb units 3-4 have been contracted
under a power purchase agreement assigning the physical implementation and operation risks to
its private developer, which in turn is contracting the work to turnkey contractors. GRIDCO
will under its tariff-setting principles pass on to its clients its power purchase costs and these
account for the major part of the total costs of the time-slice investment program. The cost of
GRIDCO's own investments in transmission and distribution will be charged to the consumers as
well. The program has been designed under the first phase of the reform program and the
Regulator is expected to allow its costs to be fully passed on to the consumers. A sensitivity
case with a 10% increase in T&D costs without a change in retail tariff was, nevertheless, carried
out, yielding an ERR of 16.4%. Another sensitivity case assumed a deceleration in the pace of
system loss reduction and a 10 % higher ultimate level of losses, without the Regulator allowing
such higher losses passed on to the consumers (i.e., keeping retail tariffs and therefore benefits
unchanged). The ERR remains satisfactory at 15.8%. Corresponding ERRs with tariff as the
measure of economic benefit are indicated in Figure 1. Another sensitivity case established ERRs
with average tariff revenues 20% lower than projected. In the base case, ERR falls only slightly,
to about 15.1%, in spite of the significant reduction in tariff revenue, as the measure of benefit is
only partly related to the tariff. However, in the case where tariff is used directly as the proxy
for economic benefit (para. 4), as expected the ERR fell significantly, to 8.6%. Project design
accordingly focuses on the development of the Regulator to help ensure that the utilities will be
able to adjust their tariffs.
15.   The impact on the program of lower than projected generation due to lower than
projected demand is marginal. Current projections show that Orissa will have to initiate two 500
MW base load generation projects and smaller peak load service projects before the end of the
time-slice period. A reduction in demand growth would affect the timing of those new projects,
not the schedule of the generation projects in the time-slice (Upper Indravati and lb units 3-4)
which would be required in the system before their current implementation-constrained
commissioning dates. The transmission and distribution rehabilitation program is urgently
required and only the timing of transmission lines directly associated with new generating
stations would need to the adjusted. Similarly the impact of load growth on the DSM program is
marginal, investment under the program are expected to be highly attractive. Time-slice demand
forecast is essentially a supply forecast (projected output of the generating stations and
availability of power from NTPC to Orissa during system peak periods) and will be substantially
lower than projected only in case the supply does not materialize, i.e. in case the stations do not
generate as much as projected, e.g. due to insufficient fuel supply or lower plant availability.
That scenario was tested in the sensitivity analysis, by reducing generation from Orissa's stations
by 10%, yielding an ERR of 15.4%. Finally, another scenario was tested, combining the 10%
increase in T&D costs, the 10% higher T&D losses, and the 10% lower generation, resulting in
an ERR of 14.1%. The ERR results are summarized in Figure 1.



Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 12
TABLE 1: RATE OF RETURN OF ORISSA'S INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(Benefits valued at tariff)
(Million Rs)
-~~~~..                                 .. .... .                                       -9N  t-  -- . -L:  - N -
Base Year        5520       7643                                                       13163                      -13163
1996-97         4474        1045      1791        215       347            992          8865           2445        -6420
1997-98         3111        1381      2549        262       347           2124          9775           4062        -5713
1998-99          966        1286      2564        320       346           4184          9666           6630        -3035
1999-00                      680      2191        473       651           4123          8117           8645          528
2000-01                       127     2245        747       958           1897           5973         10290         431
2001-02                       146     2032        779       958           3973          7888          12893         5005
2002-03                                           779       958           3973          5710          12893         7183
2003-04                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2004-05                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2005-06                                           779       958           3973          5710          12893         7183
2006-07                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2007-08                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2008-09                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2009-10                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2010-11                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2011-12                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2012-13                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2013-14                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2014-15                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2015-16                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2016-17                                           779       958           3973           5710          12893        7183
2017-18                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2018-19                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2019-20                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2020-21                                           779       958           3973           5710         12893         7183
2021-22                                           779       958           3973          5710          12893         7183
ERR        14.50
NPV@12%           6153



Annex 5.1
Page 6 of 12
TABLE 2: ECONOMIC COSTS OF DIESEL & ELECTRIC PUMPING
1 ':''5' ---. t' . :E .. .. .. .   i 'R'. :E :'0T -                              .......E:E'!    :'0E  -'T'-            ...........: 2i'-iE .   i'    -i:--:E-V''E''T-'-      -
Discount rate                                       12%            12%           12%           12%           12%          12°,
Motor size (HP)                                        5              5             5            5             5             5
Pump lifetime (YR.)                                   10             10            10           10            10            1
Capitalcost(Rs)(l)                                 12638         12638         12638         12638         12638         1263
Annual charge (Rs)                                 2237           2237          2237          2237          2237          223
O&M (Rs) (2)                                       2427           2619          2812          3002          3132          3373
Annual diesel cost (Rs) (3) (4)                    2835           3060          3285          3505          3715          3940
Costofdiesel(Rs/hr)                                 5.67           6.12          6.57          7.01          7.43         7.8
Totalannualcost(Rs)                                7499           7915          8333          8743          9133          9549
(1) Market-retail price (before subsidies) of diesel pumps is Rs 16850. This price includes a 20% tax (2% municipal tax,
8% state tax, 10% excise duty), which is deducted for purposes of economic analysis. Also a 90% SCF is applied.
(2) a 90% SCF is applied to O&M
(3) Diesel price (intl. diesel price CIF) *1.0 liter/hr * 500 hr.
(4) based on international CIF price of diesel
m. uscmic0- !!tr- s-n .tm... '.. .l...                       O
Discount rate                                       12%            12%           12%          12%           12%           120/
Motor size (HP)                                        5              5            5             5             5
Pump lifetime (YR.)                                   10             10           10            10            10            I
Capital cost (Rs) (1)                              8250           8250          8250          8250          8250         825
Annual charge (Rs)                                 1460           1460          1460          1460          1460          146
O&M (Rs) (2)                                        488            526           565           603           639           67
Cost of electricity (Rs/kWh)                          X              X             X             X             X
Annual electricity cost (Rs) (3)                  1865X          1865X         1865X        1865X         1865X         1865
(1) Market-retail price (before subsidies) of electric pumps is Rs 1100.0. This price includes a 20% tax (2% municdpal tax,
8% state tax, 10% excise duty), which is deducted for purposes of economic analysi. Also a 90% SCF Is applied.
(2) a 90% SCF is applied to O&M.
(3) Since 1HP=0.746kW, 500 hr. would imply 1865 kWh for a 5HP motor.
C. COST OF ELECTRICITY (X)
The cost of electricity at which costs of electric pumping are the same as the costs of diesel pumping:
Note: Cost base adjusted to end 1995 price levels.



Annex 5.1
Page 7 of 12
TABLE 3: ECONOMIC COSTS OF AUTOGENERATION
50 kW Machine
| .          ....        .. 19997 .      1 -.. 1.9J                                    .   2      1-        0 ....0
Discount factor                                        12%            12%            12%            12%         12%            12/
Lifetime (yr.)                                           15             15             15             15          15             15
Fixed costs:
Capital Cost (RsIkW) (1)                           4680           4680           4680           4680         4680           4680
Annual charge (Rs/kW)                               687            687            687            687          687            687
Salaries (Rs/kW) (2)                                468            505            542            579          613            650
Routinemaintenance(Rs/kW)(3)                         152            164            176           188          199            211
Total fixedcoslyr. (RskW)                           1307          1356           1405           1454         1500           1549
Variable costs:
Diesel fuel (Rs/kWh) (4)                            1.88           2.02           2.17           2.31        2.45           2.60
Lubricant (Rs/kWh) (9)                              0.02           0.02           0.02           0.02        0.02           0.03
Totalvariablecosts(Rs/kW)                           1.90           2.04           2.19           2.34        2.48           2.63
Average cost of generation (Rs/kWh) (6)               2.11            2.26          2.42           2.57         2.72           2.88
200-400 kW Machine
Discount factor                                        12%            12%            12%            12%         12%            120/
Lifetime (yr.)                                           15             15             15             15          15             15
Fixed costs:
Capital Cost(Rs/kW)(1)                             3150           3150           3150           3150         3150           3150
Annual charge (Rs/kW)                               462            462            462            462          462            462
Salaries(Rs/kW)(2)                                  351            379            407            434          460            488
Routine maintenance (Rs/kW) (3)                      103           111            119             127         134            143
Total fixed cos/yr. (Rs/kW)                         916            952            988           1023         1057           1093
Variable costs:
Diesel fuel (Rs/kWh) (4)                            1.60           1.71           1.84           1.96        2.08           2.21
Lubricant (Rs/kWh) (9)                              0.02           0.02           0.02           0.02        0.02           0.02
Total variable costs (Rs/kW)                        1.61           1.73           1.86           1.98        2.10           2.2
Averagecostofgeneration(Rs/kWh)(6)                1.76            1.89          2.02          2.15          2.27          2.41
(I) Price before tax is 260000 Rs for 50-kW, and 700000 Rs for 200-kW. A SCF of 0 9 is applied
(2) Assumes Rs 2000/month-person I person for 50 kW machine, 3 people for 200 kW machine. Also, a SCF of 0.9 is applied.
(3) Assumes 2 5% of capital cost Also, a SCF of 0 9 is applied.
(4) Assumes the intemational CIF pnce of diesel; and 0 33 hter/kWh and 0.28 liter/kWh for a 50 kW and 200-400 kW machine respectively.
(5) Assumed at 1% of fuel costs
(6) Assumes a 70% plant factor
Note: Cost base adjusted to end 1995 price levels.



Annex 5.1
Page 8 of 12
TABLE 4: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL COSTS OF KEROSENE REPLACEMENT
Kerosene replacement (GWh) (2)                                       24.4      38.0       66.5        88.6     107.6       127.4
Light equivalent in gimh (3)                                        292.5    456.6       797.5      1063.2    1291.5      1528.8
Kerosene required to produce the glmh (million kg) (4)               29.3      45.7       79.7       106.3     129.2       152.9
Total kerosene required in liters (million liter) (5)                37.4      58.4      102.1       136.1      165.3      195.7
Total cost of kerosene (million Rs) (6)                             223.2    375.8       705.3      1003.0    1292.8      1622.3
Equivalent cost of electricity per kWh (Rs/kWh)                       9.2       9.9       10.6        11.3       12.0       12.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-MXS               g0-    -  -i- -- ---
Kerosene replacement (GWh) (2)                                       24.4      38.0       66.5        88.6     107.6       127.4
Light equivalent in glmh (3)                                        292.5    456.6       797.5      1063.2    1291.5      1528.8
Kerosene required to produec the gimh (million kg) (4)               29.3      45.7       79.7       106.3     129.2       152.9
Total kerosene required in liters (million liter) (5)                37.4      58.4      102.1       136.1      165.3      195.7
Total cost of kerosene (million Rs) (7)                             243.5    410.0       768.9      1094.4    1409.1      1768. I
EquivalentcostofelectricityperkWh(Rd/kWh)                            10.0      10.8       11.6        12.4      13.1        13.9|
Assumptions:
I. Analysis involves fuel costs only (not capital costs)
2. Involves domestic sector only, and assumes 10% of
electricity consumed by domestic sector would be replaced.
3. Assuming a luminous efficacy of 12 kilolumen-hours
(klmhykWh.
4. A fuel consumption 0. I kg/klmh for a kerosene mantle
lamp.
5. A conversion factor of 1.28 liter/kg.
6. International prices of kerosene.
7. Assumes a price of 5.5 RsA/liter in 1995-96, an average
of control price (3 Rslliter) and market price (8 Rs/liter).
Note: Cost base adjusted to end 1995 price levels.



Annex 5.1
Page 9 of 12
TABLE 5: FINANCIAL COSTS OF DIESEL AND ELECTRIC PUMPING
1. I~~~USEL PU..M.... ......                          .....1i~   .....9 1..9.                        2000.0         20.01402,
Discount rate                                           12%            12%            12%            12%            12%            12/
Motor size (HP)                                           5               5              5              5              5              5
Pufftp lifetime (YR.)                                    10              10             10             10             10             10
Capital cost (Rs) (1)                                 11290           11290          11290         11290          11290          11290
Annual charge(Rs)                                      1998            1998           1998          1998           1998           1998
O&M(Rs)(2)                                             2697            2910           3124          3335           3535           374
Annualdieselcost(Rs)(3)                                4175            4504          4836           5163           5473           5801
Costofdiesel (Rs/hr)                                   8.35            9.01           9.67          10.33          10.95          11.60
Total annualcost(Rs)                                   8870            9412           9959         10496          11006          11546
(1) Market-rtail price (before subsidies) of diesel pumps is Rs 16850 A 33% average subsidy was applied for financial analysis.
(2) Includes cost of lubricants
(3) Diesel price Rs 7 7/Liter 01 0 Liter/hr *500 hr/yr (for 1995-96)
Note. with exception of annual charges, other costs grow at the mflation rate
L....... .     M*'".......2O(1.-:
Discount rate                                          12%             12%            12%            12%            12%            12°A
Motor size (HP)                                           5               5              5              5              5              5
Purnp lifetime (YR.)                                     10              10             10             to             10             10
Capital cost (Rs) (1)                                  7370            7370           7370          7370           7370           7370
Annual charge (Rs)                                     1304            1304           1304           1304          1304           1304
O&M (Rs)                                                542             585            628            670           710            753
Cost of electricity (R/lkWh)                              X               X              X             X              X
Annual electricity cost (Rs) (2)                     1865X           1865X          1865X          1865X          1865X          1865
(I) Market-retail price (before subsidies) of electnc pumps is Rs 11000. A 33% averge subsidy was applied.
2) Since IHP0.746KW. 500 hr. would imnply 1865 kWh for a 5HP motor
C. COST OF ELECTRICITY (X)
The cost of electricity at which coats of electric pumping are the same as the costs of diesel pumping:
..:--'.."'','',.-,,:,.,.".    ,'  ,.   .   .   ..... .       .    ....
X (Rs/kWh)=                            3.77            4.03           4.30           4.57           4.82           5.09
Note: Cost base adjuated to end 1995 price levels.



Annex 5.1
Page 10 of 12
TABLE 6: FINANCIAL COSTS OF AUTOGENERATION
Discount factor                                         12%           12%          12%/        12°.'         12°.0         12
Lifetime (yr.)                                           15             15           15          15           15             1S
Fixed costs:
Capital Cost (Rs/kW)(I)                             6240          6240         6240        6240          6240           6240
Antnual charge (Rs/kW)                               916           916          916         916           916            916
Salaries (Rs./kW) (2)                                520            S61         602         643           6S2            723
Routine maintenance (Rs/kW) (3)                       169           182          196         209          222            235
Total fixed cost/yr. (Rs/kW)                        1605           1659         1714        1768         1819           1874
Variable costs:
Diesel fuel (Rs/kWh) (4)                             2.75          2.97         3.19        3.40          3.60          3.82
I.uhricant (Rs/xWh) (5)                              0.03          0.03         0.03        0.03          0.04          0.04
T'otal variable costs (Rs/kW)                        2.78          3.00         3.22        3.43          3.64          3.86
Average cost of generation (Rs/kWh) (6)                 4.00          4.26        4.52         4.78         5.03           5.29
200400 kW Machine
Discount factor                                        12%           12%          12%         12%           12%           12/
Lifetime (yr.)                                           I5            15           15          15            I5           I1
Fixed coats:
Capital Cost (Rs/kW)(1)                             4200          4200         4200        4200          4200           4200
Anrtualcharge(Rs/lcW)                                617           617          617         617           617            617
Salaries (Rs/kW) (2)                                 390           421          452         482           511            542
Routinemaintenance(Rs/kW)(3)                         114            123          132         141          149            158
Total fixed costlyr. (RsIkW)                        1121           1160        1201        1240          1277           1317
Variable costs:
Diesel fuel (Rs/kWh) (4)                             2.34          2.52         2.71        2.89         3.07           3.25
L.ubricant (Rs/kWh) (5)                              0.02          0.03         0.03        0.03         0.03           0.03
Total variable costa (Rs/kW)                         2.36          2.55         2.74        2.92         3.10           3.28
Average cost of generation (Rs,/kWh) (6)               3.22           3.43        3.65       3.87           4.07          4.29
( I) Price before tax is 260000 Rs for 50-kW, and 700000 Rs for 200-kW. A 20%.- is added (2% municipal.,8% state, and  0°/. excise duty)
(2) Assumes Rs 2000/month-person I person for 50 kW
machine, 3 people for 200 kW machine
(3) Assumes 2 5% of capital cost
(4) Assumes 7 7 R.s/liter of diesel, and 0 33 liter/kWh and
028 liter/kWh for a 50 kW and 200-400 kW machine
respectively (base year figures)
(5) Assumned at 1 % of fuel Costa
(6) Assumnes a 15% plant factor.
Note: Cost base adjusted to end 1995 price levels.



Annex 5.1
Page 11 of 12
TABLE 7: RATES OF RETURN ON ORISSA'S INVESTMENT PROGRAM (Million Rs)
(Benefits valued at willingness to pay)
l ~TOTAL    . .ASE   .ENI- .T   SENS. [VXTY
,. ,, ,,,.,. ,,,, ,., ~~~~~~.                       . . . .  .   ,. . .... . 
TOSTh (1) CAE                        AS I                CASE 2r
BaseYear                13163          -13163                -13163               -13163
1996-97                  8865           -6162                 -6425                -6523
1997-98                  9775           -5506                 -5880                -5998
199S-99                  9666           -2385                 -3074                -3324
1999-00                  8117            1489                   565                  220
2000-01                  5973            5593                  4465                 4033
2001-02                  7888            5991                  4751                 4336
2002-03                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2003-04                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2004-05                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2005-06                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2006-07                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2007-08                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2008-09                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2009-10                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2010-11                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2011-12                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2012-13                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2013-14                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2014-15                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2015-16                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2016-17                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2017-18                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2018-19                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2019-20                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2020-21                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
2021-22                  5710            8169                  6929                 6514
ERR                      16.8%                 14.1%               13.20/c
NPV @12%                 11888                  5128                 2804
(I) Breakdown of costs given in table 1.



Annex 5.1
Page 12 of 12
FIGURE 1: RESULTS OF ERR AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
18%
16%  -
14%-
z
x  12%-
UL.
0  8%                                                      _
6%  -
4%  -
2%
0%    _
1    2      3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10   11    12   13   14
SCENARIOS
Scenario 1: Willingness to pay (WTP) as benefits, Base case                                 16.8%
Scenario 2: WTP as benefits, T&D investment cost up by 10%                                   16.4%
Scenario 3: WTP as benefits, System loss reduction decelarated / up by 10%                   15.3%
Scenario 4: WTP as benefits, Generation down by 10%                                         15.4%
Scenario 5: WTP as benefits, Tariffs down by 20%                                             15.1%
Scenario 6: WTP as benefits, Combination of (2)-(4)                                          14.1%
Scenario 7: WTP as benefits, Combination of (2)-(5)                                          12.5%
Scenario 8: Tariffs as benefits, no deviations from expected conditions                      14.5%
Scenario 9: Tariffs as benefits, T&D investment cost up by 10%                               14.2%
Scenario 10: Tariffs as benefits, System loss reduction decelarated / up by 10%              13.7%
Scenario 11: Tariffs as benefits, Generation down by 10%                                     13.2%
Scenario 12: Tariffs as benefits, Tariffs down by 20%                                        8.6%
Scenario 13: Tariffs as benefits, Combination of(9)-(l1)                                     12.0%
Scenario 14: Tariffs as benefits, Combination of (9)-(12)                                    6.3%



Annex 5 2
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
000 - POWER SECTOR FUNDS FLOW
(Rs. Million)
pY 36      FY3        FY 97      FY 38       FY 3       FY 00      FY 01      FY 02      FY 03
Averag exchag rio Rul                                                              317        32.3       342        367         393        418        44 0       46.2       485
RCEIPTS
ERD Loan                                                                           253           0        675      2,025       2.425      3,670      3.325      2.300          0
Grn                                                                                  0           0      1,001        932        328          0          0           0          0
EleicityDuy                                                                        598         654        731        876       1,111      1,299      1,412      1,504      1,601
OSEB                                          Intern                               358         228          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
R"e   ntofGOO kon                    103          70          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
OHFC                                          hlwes                                 0           0        712        781        871       1,006       935       1.445      1,409
RapeamuitolGOOlowns                    0           0          0          0          0          0          0        293        289
RepnesoflEROloans                      0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Ddeonds                                0          0           0          0          0          0        640       1,113      1,113
GRIDCO                                        InSS                                   0           0         11         44         90        120         125        557        553
RepeynoirolGfGOO  ns                   0           0          0          0          0          0          0         la         50
R*peWoritofflolDamn                    0          0           0          0          0          0          0         67        270
D°dends                                0          0           0          0          0        758        758        758        864
S  leofTrTPS                                                                         0       1.070        646        593        540        486        433           0          0
TOTAL                                                                             1,312      2,022      3,776      5,250      5,364       7,339      7,627      8,055      6,150
PAYMENTS
UpperIndrniProjod                             Loans                                687         293          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
OSEB                                          Subidy                              2,389      2,832          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
OHRC                                          Onllingof lloam                        0           0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
Equiy                                  0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0
GRIDCO                                        OwdedingolfR1loans                     0           0        675       2,025      2,425      3,670      3,325      2,300          0
EquLy                                  0          0       1,001        932        328          0          0          0          0
Grant                                  0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Deberc-IRO  loans&IDACuedkiIP)                Wtest                                561         561        623        798       1,011      1,317      1,403      1,523      1,650
Repaprents                             0        225         237        257        277        296        972       1,022      1,074
TOTAL                                                                            3,637       3,910      2,536      4,011       4,040      5,283      5,700      4,844      2,724
NET SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                                            -,324      -I'm        1,240      1,238      1,324      2,056       1,921      3,211      3426
FundsrequaredforInif*nentPlnof                08EB                                 153         100          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
OH0                                   0          0         706        351      1,037      1,038          0          0          0
GRIDCO                                 0          0         175        325        385         75          0          0          0
FUNDS REQUIRED FROM   UDOGET                  (R. =oe)                           2.477       1.988       -359       -563         98       -944      -1,927     -3,211     -3,426
(USS NIHeN)                           78         62         -10        -15          2        -23        -44         -70        -71
SUPPLEMENTARY INFOR4ATKIN
o8E8                                          I     4bwera   Plan                 1,646      1,750          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
Loe fnnced by
GOO loon                             153        100           0          0          0          0          0          0          0
AIB nan                              958        750          0           0          0          0          0          0          0
FFCIoans                               0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
RECAIJC las                          557       1,083          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
btenalcedrge erton                   -22        -183          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
OHPC                                          knwinent Pian                          0           0      2,280      3,172      3,434       2,661       249        305         358
Lesv inanced by
GOO Lons                               0           0        706        351      1,037      1,038          0          0          0
OA Loons                               0          0         200        213          0          0          0          0          0
PFC Ione                               0          0       1,034      1,690      1,500        866         30          0          0
so bleN                                0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0
htmlcashgenarabtn                      0          0         339       917         897        758        219        305        357
GRIDCO                                        hInesent Plan                          0           0      3,536      6,255      6,372      6,592       6,332      6,468      5,794
Lees inened by
IBRD lon                               0          0         675      2.025      2,425      3,670      3,325       2,300         0
ADB lame                               0          0       1,000        800        225          0          0          0          0
PFC Loans                              0           0          0          0          0          0          0        500        500
GOO lane                               0          0         175        325        385         75          0          0          0
REC lons                               0           0      1,060        760      1,056       1,175      1,002      1,527      3,026
mealrcasgh norlion                     0           0       -654        839      1,605       1,642      1,975      2,141      2,268
ODA - Tedvni  Asirano                  0          0        280       1,02         575         30         30          0          0
Note:
Once GOO disinwe, We capial roeipt wig go up by Ioe wnount of sle prrods but is ditend receipts pigo down m lture yern



Annex 5.3
Page 1 of4
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
RISKS AND SAFEGUARDS
1.    Orissa Government Commitment. The major project risk is Orissa's political
willingness and capability to implement the reform program. The reform program involves new
institutional arrangements, tariff adjustments, improved bill collection and addressing power thefts
and staffing of OSEB and infringes upon social and political interests and long standing
administrative and other well entrenched traditions. Orissa has demonstrated strong commitment
to the program and the government and OSEB are implementing the program, including difficult
and typically unpopular measures on tariffs, collection, subsidies, and are actively pursuing
privatization. The Orissa government has sought and is receiving support from the Bank, ADB
and ODA; this has undoubtedly helped maintain the momentum. Without support from the
central government and adequate financial support from the Bank in particular, the Orissa
Government may step back. The implementation of the program continues in spite of a change of
state government in March 1995, demonstrating the extent of political support the program enjoys
in Orissa, reflecting the widely-shared recognition of the need for a fundamental change in the
way the power sector has been managed in the past. The new Chief Minister supports the reform
program and has endorsed its key features and Orissa has submitted a formal statement of its
power policy.
2.    In Orissa's political environment and in view of the Orissa government's commitment as
already demonstrated, the reasonable electricity tariff outlook and the interest already expressed
by various reputable private investors to take over existing assets and invest in new developments,
chances for successful reform are therefore considered to be promising, although success can not
be guaranteed. To support the reform program and help maintain the Orissa government's
commitment, the Bank intends to continue: (a) the current close involvement in the
implementation of the reform program in Orissa with intensive supervision; and (b) the active
dialogue with co-financiers, to help Orissa secure their continued support for the program.
3.    Management Risks and Safeguards. Orissa's capability to develop and manage the two
new utilities and the regulatory commission is major project risk is, Orissa's reform commitment
notwithstanding. Orissa has acknowledged that while technical skills are readily available, the
required management expertise is in short supply. The boards of directors of GRIDCO and
OHPC include several non-government part-time directors and both companies will also have
outside functional directors, for financial, commercial and human resource areas (Annexes 2.4-
2.5). The Orissa government has invited to GRIDCO's board two individuals who were
instrumental in the initial institution building of POWERGRID, for ready access to that highly
relevant experience. As discussed elsewhere in this report, a comprehensive range of external
support has also been engaged. While a variety of problems will continue to be faced in the
reform process, the new entities with their outside directors and external support are expected to



Annex 5.3
Page 2 of 4
be able to meet the challenges and maintain reform momentum. Safeguards against future
government interference in sector management have been built into project design.
4.    Future Government Interference and Safeguards. Assuming the restructuring part of
the program continues to be implemented, but prior to private sector participation and in
particular if distribution privatization gets delayed, the Orissa government may not be able resist
the temptation to again start interfering in sector management as it continues to own the new
corporations. Among the many aspects and challenges of the reform program, the Bank has
consistently in the dialogue with the government highlighted: (a) the development of an
independent Regulatory Commission, requiring inter alia competent and respected chairman and
members with fixed staggered terms of appointment, to insulate Orissa's power sector from the
government and ensure its operational, managerial and financial autonomy, and (b) closely related
to this, the development of the new utilities with independent management, including inter alia: (i)
boards of directors with significant non-government participation even if the companies are
initially wholly-owned by the Orissa government and (ii) competent operational management with
adequate operational autonomy from their boards of directors. These are critical prerequisites for
successful reform and have been achieved by Orissa in the initial appointments. Bank review of
the implementation of the reform would focus and continued Bank support will critically depend
on the government allowing the persons it has appointed to perform with adequate independence
and autonomy, as per its power sector policy statement.
5.    The reform program includes substantial private sector involvement (privatization and/or
private management) of the most critical part of the system, distribution during program
implementation. This commitment is reflected in the Orissa government's power policy statement
and has been separately covenanted under the loan. The Bank: (a) would have remedies under the
loan agreement to deal with non-compliance; and (b) has an established track record of using
available remedies (including cancellation of Ln. 2278-IN in 1991 and suspensions of Cr. 1356-IN
on three different occasions). Minimizing the risks to the Bank by deferring financial support
after the closing of Cr. 1356-IN would have increased risk and uncertainty to those in Orissa
implementing the reform program. Deferring Bank approval of the loan would have been
counter-productive for the implementation of the program. Sirnilarly during the coming years of
program implementation, the Bank's emphasis will have to be on helping Orissa face both the
expected and unforeseen challenges in reform implementation in particular at times of trouble.
6.    Central Government-Related Risks and Safeguards. The draft reform legislation was
reviewed and finalized in consultation with the central government and the advance clearance and
President's Assent were secured by the Orissa government ahead of the Bank's loan commitment.
Through its broader policy dialogue with India, the Bank continues to emphasize the role of
central government in state power restructuring, for the center to: (a) provide political leadership
and support to reforming states, (b) undertake the reforms required at the central level to pave the
way for state power reform; and (c) encourage parallel reform initiatives in other states (and the
preparation of similar projects has already started in Bihar, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Uttar
Pradesh).
7.    Environmental Risks and Safeguards. Overall, the environmental impact of the reform
program is expected to be positive. Environmental impact assessments of the new thermal



Annex 5.3
Page 3 of 4
generation projects, NTPC Talcher and AES lb units, demonstrate that their emissions will be
within GOI/Bank Group guidelines. Technical assistance is being provided under the project by
ODA to help implement the rehabilitation and watershed management plans of the Upper
Indravati project. Attention has also been paid to ensuring that OHPC and GRIDCO develop
adequate environmental management capabilities and technical assistance is being provided for
that purpose.
8.    Technical Risks in Implementation and Operation and Related Safeguards. The
project does not pose any particular technical risks in implementation or operation as proven
technologies will be utilized throughout. Project implementation will follow well-established
practices by experienced staff, with appropriate technical support arrangements for OHPC (for
environmental and watershed management) and GRIDCO (engineering and environmental
including POWERGRID for the T&D rehabilitation program, ODA support for the DSM
component). Tender documents meeting Bank requirements have already been finalized and used
under advance procurement (as well as under Cr. 13 56-IN) and by POWERGRID under Ln.
3237-IN and Ln. 3577-IN. GRIDCO's Project Management Unit includes POWERGRID along
with GRIDCO's own staff and external consultants.
9.    Financial/Commercial/Economic Risks and Safeguards. The core investment program
has been prepared taking into account the utilities' capability to raise resources. The new
regulatory regime is designed to enable the utilities to recover their costs and earn a reasonable
return on their investments. The costs of the investments to be made under the proposed Bank
loan would be recovered under these standard arrangements. Sensitivity analysis established the
impact of adverse changes on the ERR of the investment program to be acceptable. The results
clearly demonstrate the need for appropriate pricing of electricity and reinforce the role of the
Regulatory Commission. The main risk relates to the utilities' ability to recover their charges from
their clients, generators from GRIDCO, which in turn has to recover from the distributors and
they ultimately from the electricity consumers. Special attention has therefore been paid in the
design of the reform program to ensure that the foundation of the sector, power distribution, will
be developed on the basis of satisfactory commercial policies and arrangements to ensure
satisfactory revenue recovery. This will be accomplished by transferring distribution to the
private sector, to specialized private companies whose survival depends on their success in
addressing Orissa's current problems in distribution.
10.   The bulk of the future financing of the Orissa power sector is to come from the private
sector, as indicated in the sector financing plan already in the FY97-FY2003 period. Orissa's first
private power project is expected to reach financial closure in 1996. The project is supported by
IFC and will enjoy a Government of India counter-guarantee. Future private generation projects
are unlikely to obtain a GOI counter-guarantee and will have to depend primarily on the financial
strength of the client (GRIDCO and later also the private distribution companies) and related
security arrangements. The forthcoming competitive bidding for Orissa's next private power
generation project, to be conducted under the reform program (currently in pre-qualification
stage), will test and is expected to help confirm the sustainability of the structures established
under the reform program. Bank guarantees may be sought to facilitate the implementation of the
next 1-2 private power generation projects and distribution privatization (Annex 2.3).



Annex 5.3
Page 4 of 4
11.   InstitutionaUContractual Risks and Safeguards. Apart from the conventional
technical, financial and commercial (revenue recovery) risks to be faced under most power sector
investments, the reform program introduces additional risks relating to the functioning of the new
decentralized power system. These risks are being addressed through the preparation (during the
already-completed phase 1 of the reform program) of comprehensive legal, commercial and
technical documents (reform legislation and licenses, power purchase agreements and a grid code,
respectively) to set the new regulatory and operational framework between generators, GRIDCO
and distributors and during the ongoing phase 2 by providing technical support to the new utilities
and the Regulatory Commission to help operationalize these new agreements. The role of
GRIDCO, in addition to being the grid company (i.e. a transmission company and the coordinator
of system operations) was defined to include power distribution in the short-term and the
functions of a central power procurement agency in the medium-term inter alia to minimize the
initial operational complexities during the transition period from the Government/OSEB
environment to the post-reform commercialized and decentralized industry and market structures.
Separation of generation from distribution and the creation of more than one distribution company
are essential design features (Annex 2.3) and justify the additional risk compared to pursuing the
creation of a vertically-integrated private utility in order to reduce such complexities. It should be
noted that, given the position of OSEB, its successful privatization as a whole, without
restructuring, was also regarded to be highly unlikely, making the option of retaining an integrated
utility academic in the case of Orissa.
12.   The implementation of the DSM component involves institutional risks as it involves
not only GRIDCO, but also a large number of electricity end-users and requires their co-operation
and willingness to invest. Given the modest size of the proposed initial DSM investment under
the Bank loan, the impact of slower than expected implementation on the overall reform program
and the loan utilization would not be significant. However, it would defer the initial beneficial
impact of DSM on the efficiency of electricity use and operation of the power system and future
wide-scale adoption of DSM in Orissa. The DSM component is therefore accompanied by a large
technical assistance program to help GRIDCO and the end-users prepare and implement the DSM
investments. End-users are participating in the Steering Committee to help ensure close
interaction and communication, and so is the Bhubaneswar branch of the Industrial Development
Bank of India (IDBI). IDBI's involvement is also expected to substantially facilitate the
interaction between GRIDCO and the end-users in the industrial sector and help secure the
successful completion of Orissa first forual DSM program.
13.   Failure is not an Option. Orissa's power policy statement, the establishment of the new
utilities with their strengthened management teams, the enactment of the reform legislation and
the preparatory work on the establishment of the Regulatory Commission, the successive tariff
adjustments, etc., have placed Orissa firmly on the reform path, but still, only the initial steps
have so far been taken. The road ahead to functioning utilities, an effective Regulatory
Commission and an efficient and commercially viable power sector is going to be long and
winding. Along with progress and successes, the first two years of reform have also involved
difficulties, frustrations and setbacks and the same mixture is inevitable also in the coming years.
A reform mantra "Failure is not an Option" has been adopted to emphasize the importance of
relentless pursuit of reform implementation at times of difficulties.



Annex 6.1
Page I of I
INDIA
ORISSA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1     Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, Certificate of Incorporation, the
Grid Corporation of Orissa and the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation, April 1995.
2.    The Orissa Electricity Reform Act 1995 (Orissa Act 2 of 1996), as passed by the Orissa
Legislative Assembly on November 28, 1995 and notified in the Orissa Gazette in January 1996.
3.    The Orissa Electricity Reform (Transfer of Undertakings, Assets, Liabilities, Proceedings
and Personnel) Scheme Rules, 1996, related notifications and orders, and GRIDCO's provisional
license, as notified by the Government of Orissa on April I, 1996 in the Orissa Gazette, under the
Orissa Electricity Reform Act and the Rules, to transfer the undertakings, assets, liabilities,
proceedings and personnel (as defined in the Rules).
4.    Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Program, Report of the World Bank Review Team,
June 1994.
5.    Reform of the Power Sector in Orissa, selected reports by the Reform Implementation
Organization and the Reform Consultant, during 1995-1996:
1. Phase I Summary Report
2. Commercial, Financial and Asset Valuation Working Group Report
3. Distribution Working Group Report
4. Human Resources Development Working Group Report
5. Legal and Regulatory Working Group Report, draft licenses for Bulk Supply,
Transmission and Supply
6. Metering Working Group Report, bid documents
7. Planning Working Group Report, load forecast, generation, transmission and
distribution investment requirements
8. Power Purchase Agreements Working Group Report, model thermal PPA, model
hydro PPA, draft joint facilities operation and maintenance agreement
9. Tariff Working Group Report
10. Technical Interface Working Group Report, draft Grid Code
11. Reform of the Orissa Power Sector, phase 2 plan, April 1995
6.    Power System Planning in Orissa, Main Report and Load Forecast, Generation,
Transmission and Distribution Reports, Monenco-Agra, September 1995.



*                                                                                  t-.   W E S T                                                                                        IERD 26751~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 65
v,,>,           INSET A                                       B H                                                                         E N G A L
;                     *4 ~~~~~~~ASLUOUA       _'OCOX£WAr.      %UN.RG; .-,RH                                                                                 ,|     ORI SSA TRANSMI SS ION  SYSTEM
RA~~ARMNAOAS,,  OORR4  p    -   SU,408RGARH  004.OER4                                                                                                         ~66   kV   AND   ABOVE
132 ~~V   r              u c~~~              ROLANA A                                            RARIPADA    )-.-
IB (U C |N  0  M AA  IRLYI  \ X   {\   ~   t   JY   \w5RIPAOA  X  *_PROPOSED   EXISTING
'AIES..                                 -                   I- 400 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
_                  IN~~~~SEE 
|  -  ||J.   iNSET                                                    IU                                                                      -          -        220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
6440084.0H    IR  D "PF/L°APNG  RE                      -          -        132 V TRANSMISSION I NES
HIRA      RHID-II                            SEE          BR ....DIA -ANDSUJR             -                                                           - ---   566 V TRANSMISSION LINES
ALA5PILIN\AI    \  \\/   /  g  50   C\2\  S8\HAR<S    /   VIDUEUR.I  IIAC ;/* D               *   HYDRO POWER STATIONS
I'll /0/  }   E<j  C  S - ;  O P AT1 JAJ  rOWN                        *    THERMAL POWER STATIONS
R      OAUOR                ATA.A"4                                                                       PTAE-UNDAI                                           0        *        GRID SUBSTATIONS
M PATNAGARH*      /  g:                                              7   DH\KNAI           tCPP                   -                                                       O           0      TRACTION SBSRATIONS
SASNIAL     |                     tPHUIEANI                  /  INIJAPATN                       DANASQ2KEDRAPARA
TL,111 SAIWALRE~~~          1P.UU*-I                                                                                                                        . ....TNA..DAT. .P.RSINGLE CIRCUITS ON
P R A D E S eT  TUREa  5/   R    I    S     S      A    /              C..    HU2ANR                            RADEP                                                                DOUBLE CIRCUIT TOWERS
M   A DEH Y                     KARAR'                                    R      /\S         5    A\            ~          PA          HBO4SA                 'RTS
> IES                                                                                                                                                                                                        NGA \ / NAhAGARH /j   7vtSHUKDk DOUBL- CIRCUIT LINES
20            .                L .>   *   m                 7                                      \    /           X         /         \       P4IMAPRPA    .                                 20                                          RU0  *  80  SUPPLIES
B AN    UGA ANPAAR R                                                                                                        A 77  11 q a  SWITCHING STATIONS
IAU C I   UNDER CONSTRUCTION
5FAL .-t- =J-  )  1               05S!G        IAM                             ALI                                                                                   RIER
1    RANGPUR                                       BA5U!G                     RA     +  CHATRAPUR/rEI             {58             //                                                                             RIVERS
--- ~ L)   -CH  KUSUMI   / /  - L AG A DA~                                                                                                                                                      ( \   W  D    N  r  / /   1 1  R  STATE     CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
*'CI     ]     AYANX/                                 DA ON}O B  \ PARLAKHIMDI-/                                             THARMAL                                     D                                    = STATE BOUNDARY
a   ///  U KOLAS   S >  \   NANDIRA    < ) 2   Dvbvrx _           0    70   40   00       0     100   120  140  lOS KILOMFTERS
'..C.XU                                                                                                                            U '" 1  \  --- - '  V   <         .                          n        20        'O        PO        BO       100 0I0ES
MERAMAND  \*                                                     hon.-.    @  44 ,d, -o-l  °. pp, oi Th. W-Id B-k G-
I S ! _ 220   S   9   SC   10  I  N  S  E  T  B  '  4<9<jv/_ n #a I 01 OcCeplanCe at1 ,ch bg Dnd= °'INSET                                                                                   "PP- ,Io.,ony ... d.'..
,_ . _ .. S2  UPPER SRE10                                                                                                                           C,PcoI'
1-N4AR0 I.,









IMAGING
Report No:      14298 IN
Type: SAR



