Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 4014 IN
                              Project Agreement
                 (Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project)
                                     among
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                  AND DEVELOPMENT
                                      and
                       GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA LIMITED
                                      and
                     ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                               Dated July 10, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4014 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1996, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ORISSA HYDRO POWER
CORPORATION LIMITED (OHPC) and GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA LIMITED
(GRIDCO).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three hundred fifty million dollars
($350,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that GRIDCO and OHPC agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the State of Orissa and GRIDCO and OHPC, respectively, part of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement and made
available to Orissa will be relent to GRIDCO and OHPC on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
      WHEREAS GRIDCO and OHPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) GRIDCO and OHPC declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, GRIDCO shall carry out Parts A and B and
its respective activities under Part C of the Project and OHPC shall
carry out its respective activities under Part C of the Project, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, works to
be carried out by GRIDCO under Parts A and B.2 of the Project
respectively shall meet the criteria set forth or referred to in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and GRIDCO shall submit to the Bank for
its approval, the works proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan including all details in respect of the criteria to be met and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (c)   GRIDCO shall carry out the works approved for financing
pursuant to the provision of paragraph (b) of this Section 2.01 under
the following arrangements:
            (i)   for activities under Parts A and B.2 of the Project,
                  in accordance with technical specifications and
                  standards satisfactory to the Bank; and
            (ii)  for activities under Part A of the Project, in
                  accordance with the objectives, policies, principles
                  and time schedule of the environmental mitigation
                  plan, the resettlement and rehabilitation plan and
                  the materials management plan formulated pursuant to
                  the provisions of Part I (c) of Schedule 2 to this
                  Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a)  GRIDCO and OHPC shall carry out the obli-
gations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07
of the General Conditions, GRIDCO and OHPC shall:
             (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
                    to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
                    than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                    such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
                    between the Bank and GRIDCO and OHPC, a plan
                    for the future operation of the Project;
            (ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                    exchange views with GRIDCO and OHPC on said
                    plan; and
Page  3
           (iii)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
                    and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
                    practices, taking into account the Bank's comments
                    thereon.
      Section 2.04. GRIDCO and OHPC shall duly perform all their
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, GRIDCO and OHPC shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
      Section 2.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
2.01 hereof and Sections 2.01, 2.02 and 2.03 of the Orissa Agreement,
GRIDCO may carry out activities under Part B.2 of the Project through
End-Users under arrangements and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank,
including inter alia, an implementation contract by which GRIDCO shall
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the
Borrower, Orissa and GRIDCO, including such rights in respect of the
carrying out and operation of the approved activities as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, provided, however, that prior approval of
the Bank shall not be required in respect of an activity under such
Part B.2 costing less than the equivalent of $200,000.
      Section 2.06. (a) GRIDCO and OHPC shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)    GRIDCO and OHPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by GRIDCO and OHPC of their obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
                            ARTICLE III
           Management and Operations of GRIDCO and OHPC
      Section 3.01. GRIDCO and OHPC shall carry on their operations
and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. GRIDCO and OHPC shall at all times operate and
maintain their plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
      Section 3.03. GRIDCO and OHPC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. GRIDCO and OHPC shall:
      (a)   furnish their respective five-year staff transition plans
to the Bank for comments no later than December 31, 1996;
      (b)   develop and adopt "Employee Classification, Control and
Appeal" regulations and "Recruitment and Promotion" regulations by
December 31, 1996; and
      (c)   complete the transfer of staff to their respective cadres
by March 31, 1997.
      Section 3.05. GRIDCO and OHPC shall take all such measures as
may be necessary or required on their part to enable Orissa to
fulfill its obligations under Section 3.01 of the Orissa Agreement.
Page  4
      Section 3.06. GRIDCO and OHPC shall list their shares on a
recognized stock exchange and offer them for sale to the public in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.07. (a) GRIDCO shall offer to Private Distribution
Companies its assets used in its distribution system in the Distri-
bution Areas for lease or sale under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, without prejudice to the interests of GRIDCO,
with the objective of transferring such distribution system to the
private sector in accordance with a program and timetable satis-
factory to the Bank;
      (b)   take all such measures as may be necessary or required
for efficiently implementing the transactions resulting from such
offer; and
      (c)   where no responses are received to such offers or those
that are received are not deemed responsive by GRIDCO, revise the
terms and conditions of such offer in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and take such other steps which shall, without prejudice to the
interests of GRIDCO, be adequate in the view of the Bank, to making
such offers attractive for acceptance by Private Distribution Companies.
      Section 3.08. (a) GRIDCO shall ensure that any lease agreement
entered into by it with a Private Distribution Company in respect of
the lease of its distribution assets in any Distribution Area pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.07 hereof contain terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including provisions to ensure that the
obligations undertaken by GRIDCO under this Agreement in respect of
distribution activities financed under Part A of the Project in such
Distribution Area (transferred activities) shall be  discharged on its
behalf by the Private Distribution Company in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
      (b)   Towards that end, GRIDCO shall provide to the Bank drafts
of such lease agreement for approval prior to their execution.
      (c)   GRIDCO shall further ensure that if, in connection with
the execution of such contract or agreement, the Bank deems it to be
necessary, the Private Distribution Company shall, in respect of the
transferred activities, enter into an implementation contract with
Orissa referred to in Section 2.03 (a) (iv) of the Orissa Agreement,
comply with the other requirements of such Section 2.03 (a), enter
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Orissa on terms and conditions
set forth in Section 2.02 of the Orissa Agreement, and enter into
such other agreements as the Bank may request.
      Section 3.09. The provisions of Section 3.08 hereof shall apply,
mutatis mutandis, to a sale contract entered into by GRIDCO with a
Private Distribution Company in respect of the sale of its distri-
bution assets in any Distribution Area where such Company agrees,
with the approval of the Bank, to continue with the implementation
of the distribution activities undertaken by GRIDCO under Part A of
the Project in such Distribution Area using the proceeds of the Bank
Loan and assumes the related liabilities of GRIDCO under its Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement with Orissa.  In the absence of agreement by
such a Company in these areas, GRIDCO shall take such actions as the
Bank may request in respect of its related obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) GRIDCO and OHPC shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.
      (b)   GRIDCO and OHPC shall:
            (i)   have their records, accounts and financial state-
Page  5
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, (A) certified copies of their
                  financial statements for such year as so audited
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
            (i)   OHPC shall, from time to time, take all such
                  measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
                  ments of the structure and levels of tariffs)
                  and conduct its operations and affairs in such
                  manner as to achieve, in Fiscal Year 1996/97,
                  revenues from all sources related to operations
                  and non-operating income sufficient to cover all
                  expenses related to operations including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes,
                  payments in lieu of taxes, adequate depreciation
                  and other non-cash operating charges and interest
                  and other charges on debt, and in each subsequent
                  Fiscal Year such rate as may be permissible under
                  applicable notifications issued by the Borrower.
            (ii)  GRIDCO shall, from time to time, take all such
                  measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
                  ments of the structure and levels of tariffs)
                  and conduct its operations and affairs in such
                  manner as to produce: (A) in Fiscal Year 1996/97,
                  revenues from all sources related to operations
                  and net non-operations income sufficient to cover
                  all expenses related to operations including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes,
                  payments in lieu of taxes, and interest and other
                  charges on debt; and (B) in Fiscal Year 1997/98,
                  a rate of return on its capital base of not
                  less than 10% and in each subsequent Fiscal Year
                  such rate as may be permissible under the
                  Electricity Act or prescribed by the Regulator,
                  whichever is higher; and
            (iii) GRIDCO and OHPC shall not incur any debt, unless a
                  reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures
                  of GRIDCO and OHPC beginning with Fiscal Year
                  1997/98 shows that the estimated net revenues of
                  GRIDCO and OHPC for each Fiscal Year during the term
                  of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5
                  times the estimated debt service requirements of
                  GRIDCO and OHPC in such year on all debt of GRIDCO
                  and OHPC, including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of GRIDCO
                  and OHPC maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally incurred.
            (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
Page  6
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
            (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between: (A) the sum of revenues from all sources
                  related to operations and net non-operating income;
                  and (B) the sum of all expenses related to
                  operations including administration, adequate
                  maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
                  but excluding provision for depreciation, other
                  non-cash operating charges and interest and
                  other charges on debt.
            (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between: (A) revenues from all sources
                  other than those related to operations; and (B)
                  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                  taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                  (A) above.
            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on debt.
            (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by GRIDCO and OHPC not earlier than twelve
                  months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
                  question, which both the Bank and GRIDCO or OHPC,
                  as the case may be accept as reasonable and as to
                  which the Bank has notified GRIDCO or OHPC of its
                  acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
                  since such notification which has, or may reasonably
                  be expected in the future to have, a material
                  adverse effect on the financial condition or future
                  operating results of GRIDCO or OHPC.
            (vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall
                  be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                  the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
                  valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
                  vailing official rate of exchange at which such other
                  currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
                  able for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
                  the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                  exchange acceptable to the Bank.
           (viii) Capital base shall be calculated in the manner
                  prescribed in paragraph XVII of the Sixth Schedule
                  to the Electricity Act or by the Regulator.
            (ix)  For the purpose of clause (ii) of paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, the annual rate of return for any
                  Fiscal Year shall be calculated by expressing the
                  net income for the particular Fiscal Year as a
                  percentage of the average of the equity base in
                  the case of OHPC and the capital base in the case
                  of GRIDCO at the beginning and end of such Fiscal
                  Year.
            (x)   "Net income" means total operating revenues from the
                  sale of electricity and from other services
                  incidental thereto; less all administration,
                  operating and maintenance expenses, adequate
                  provision for depreciation, and taxes (including
                  income taxes), interest and other charges on debt.
            (xi)  The term "interest and other charges on debt" means
                  and includes all interest accrued on debt, excluding
                  interest charges which are incurred in financing
Page  7
                  capital expenditures during construction, if such
                  charges are capitalized, and any other charges
                  payable on debt.
      Section 4.03. GRIDCO and OHPC shall take all steps necessary to
maintain their accounts receivable at a level not exceeding an amount
equivalent to the proceeds of their sales of power for the two
preceding months, and accounts payable not exceeding two months of
their purchases of power.
      Section 4.04. GRIDCO and OHPC shall furnish to the Bank by
December 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the
Project commencing with Fiscal Year 1996/97: (a) their five year
financial projections, including their updated Investment Plan and
financing plan for review by the Bank and for comments, if any; and
      (b)   a report reviewing the adequacy of their tariffs to meet
the requirements set forth in Section 4.02 (a) (i) and (ii) of this
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of GRIDCO and OHPC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify GRIDCO and OHPC thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
      For OHPC:
            Orissa Hydro Power Corporation Limited
            Bhubaneswar
            India
Page  8
                                           Telex:
                                           (0675) 6215
      For GRIDCO:
            Grid Corporation of Orissa Limited
            Bhubaneswar
            India
                                           Telex:
                                           (0675) 6215
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of GRIDCO and OHPC, may be taken or executed by its Managing
Director or such other person or persons as GRIDCO and OHPC shall
designate in writing, and GRIDCO and OHPC shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      Section 6.04. Any amendment to the provisions of this Agreement
as applicable to GRIDCO and OHPC may be made by an agreement between
the Bank and GRIDCO or OHPC, as the case may be.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  GRID CORPORATION OF ORISSA LIMITED
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                  ORISSA HYDRO POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Page  9
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
      (a)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
            contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
      (b)   Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent
or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set
forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in
paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
      (c)   Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated
to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in
accordance with procedures applicable to large contracts under para-
graph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Contracts for small items estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $250,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $20,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Contracts for small items estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $25,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bid-
ding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                      Eligibility Criteria
      The following eligibility criteria shall apply for activities
to be carried out under Parts A and B.2 of the Project by GRIDCO
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Part I:     Transmission and Distribution by GRIDCO Under Part A of the
            Project
(a)   The justification (in the context of the overall transmission
and distribution development plan) and technical feasibility of the
proposed transmission and distribution investment shall have been
established to the satisfaction of the Bank;
(b)   All clearances/approvals including environmental clearances shall
have been obtained from the relevant ministries, departments, agencies
or other authorities of the Borrower and Orissa and documented in the
project report;
(c)   An environmental assessment shall have been carried out, and an
environmental mitigation plan, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan,
if needed based on the environment assessment report and a plan for
the handling of materials to be replaced in the rehabilitation program,
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been prepared; and
(d)   A procurement plan shall have been prepared in accordance with
the overall procurement strategy, namely bulk procurement of main
items, turnkey construction by prequalified contractors (except for
these owner-supplied main items).
Part II:    Demand-Side Management Activities by GRIDCO Under Part B.2
            of the Project
(a)   Justification and technical feasibility of the proposed activity
shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Bank;
Page  11
(b)   Financing and procurement plans acceptable to the Bank shall have
been prepared; and
(c)   Activities below a threshold value of $200,000 equivalent shall
not require prior Bank approval.
