Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 4014 IN
                          Loan Agreement
            (Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 10, 1996
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4014 IN
                           LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1996, between INDIA, Acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out in the State of Orissa with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the State of Orissa the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;
      (C)   the Bank has received a letter dated April 4, 1996 from the
State of Orissa (Orissa) describing a program of objectives, policies
and actions to reform the power sector in Orissa (hereinafter the Power
Sector Reform Program) and declaring Orissa's commitment to carry out
such Program; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Orissa Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and the State of Orissa, and the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, Orissa Hydro Power
Corporation Limited and Grid Corporation of Orissa Limited;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is
            not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
            the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
            for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
            the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision
            of the United Nations Security Council taken under
            Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Act" means the Orissa Electricity Reform Act, 1995
(Orissa Act 2 of 1996) providing, inter alia, for restructuring of
the electricity industry, rationalization of the generation,
transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, private sector
participation in the electricity industry, and the adoption of
measures for the development and management of the electricity
industry, as the provisions of such Act may be amended from time to
time;
      (b)   "Corporatization Agreements" means collectively the
agreements between Orissa, and GRIDCO and OHPC dated  March 30, 1996
and March 27, 1996, respectively, setting forth the obligations of
Orissa, GRIDCO and OHPC in respect of the operation and management of
the power sector in Orissa;
      (c)   "Distribution Areas" means collectively the four areas
in GRIDCO's distribution system comprising: (1) the Central Area
(Bhubaneswar, Dhenkanal and Cuttack); (2) the North East Area (Jajpur
and Balasore); (3) the North West Area (Bolangir, Burla and Rourkela);
and (4) the Southern Area (Berhampur and Jeypore) and "Distribution
Area" means any one of such areas individually;
      (d)   "Electricity Act" means the Electricity (Supply) Act,
1948 of the Borrower, as amended from time to time;
      (e)   "End-Users" means electricity consumers in Orissa who
are willing to participate in a program of efficient use of
electricity;
      (f)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" means the Fiscal Year of the
Borrower, Orissa, GRIDCO or OHPC beginning on April 1 of a calendar
year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year;
      (g)   "GRIDCO" means the Grid Corporation of Orissa Limited,
Page  3
a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 of the Borrower
and constituted pursuant to the provisions of the Act with the main
objectives of engaging in the business of procurement, transmission,
and bulk supply of electric energy;
      (h)   "Investment Plan" means the plan dated September 1995
setting forth Orissa's ten-year investment plan for the power sector
as such plan may be updated from time to time;
      (i)   "OHPC" means the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation Limited,
a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 of the Borrower;
      (j)   "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, a State of India,
and includes any successor thereto;
      (k)   "Orissa Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Orissa of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Orissa Agreement;
      (l)   "Private Distribution Company" means a company incor-
porated under the Companies Act, 1956 of the Borrower as amended,
that has been granted a license by the Regulatory Commission for
supplying electricity and that has acquired the distribution under-
taking of GRIDCO in a Distribution Area either through a purchase
agreement, or a lease agreement acceptable to the Bank;
      (m)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank,
GRIDCO and OHPC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (n)   "Regulatory Commission" means the Orissa Electricity
Regulatory Commission to be established by Orissa under the Act as
referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (B) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (o)   "Special Account' means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (p)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between Orissa, and GRIDCO, OHPC, Private Distributors
and End-Users, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Orissa Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of three hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve
Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
            to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
            preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
            1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
            this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
            on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period com-
            mencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause
Orissa to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Orissa
Agreement all the obligations of Orissa, therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable Orissa, to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to Orissa in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrange-
ments for developmental assistance to the States of India.
      (c)   The Borrower shall release to Orissa funds equivalent to
the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account including
those deposited in the Special Account, immediately after such
withdrawal.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by GRIDCO
and OHPC, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received
                  the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
Page  6
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related with-
                  drawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
                  ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Orissa shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Orissa Agreement.
      (b)   GRIDCO or OHPC shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Orissa or GRIDCO or OHPC
will be able to perform their respective obligations under the
Orissa and Project Agreements.
      (d)   Orissa or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Regulatory Commission or of GRIDCO or of OHPC or for the suspension
of operations of any of them.
      (e)   The Memorandum or Articles of Association of GRIDCO or
OHPC, or the Act, or any Corporatization Agreement, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition
of GRIDCO or OHPC or the Regulatory Commission, as the case may be,
or the ability of GRIDCO, or OHPC or Orissa, as the case may be, to
carry out the Project or to perform their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Orissa Agreement.
      (f)   GRIDCO shall have failed to obtain a license under the
Act from the Regulatory Commission to replace the provisional license
issued by Orissa, or obtained a license under terms and conditions
which either at inception or through subsequent alteration, variation,
modification or amendment materially and adversely affects the ability
of GRIDCO to carry out the Project or to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (g)   Orissa shall have taken any action which has the effect
of altering, varying, modifying, adding or otherwise changing the
terms upon which any property, interest on property, rights, liabili-
ties and personnel have been transferred to GRIDCO and OHPC under the
transfer scheme prepared pursuant to the Act so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of
GRIDCO or OHPC, or their ability to carry out the Project or to
perform their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (h)   An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable
that Power Sector Reform Program or a significant part thereof will
be carried out.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  7
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) or (g)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of Orissa
and GRIDCO.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Orissa Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Orissa, and is legally binding upon Orissa in accordance
with its terms;
      (b)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by GRIDCO and OHPC, and is legally binding upon GRIDCO and
OHPC in accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Orissa and GRIDCO, and is legally binding
upon Orissa and GRIDCO, in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretary to the Government of India
            Department of Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance
            New Delhi, India
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS          953-31-66175 FINE IN
                  New Delhi         953-31-61430 FINE IN
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  8
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD         197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.  248423 (RCA),
                                     64l45 (WUI) or
                                     82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works, including                        70%
    erection and installation
    (a) under Part A of the    60,000,000
        Project
    (b) other                  10,000,000
(2) Equipment and                                100% of foreign
    materials:                                   expenditures, 100%
                                                 local expenditures
    (a) under Part A of the   180,000,000        (ex-factory cost) and
        Project                                  80% of  local expen-
                                                 ditures for other items
    (b) other                  55,000,000        procured locally
(3) Consultants' services      10,000,000       100%
    and training
(4) Unallocated                35,000,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                   350,000,000
                              ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  9
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $7,000,000, may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1,
1994; and
      (b)   expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) until:
            A.    GRIDCO has entered into a lease agreement or a
                  management contract satisfactory to the Bank, in
                  respect of its distribution undertaking in at
                  least one Distribution Area; and
            B.    the Regulatory Commission has been formally
                  established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a)
goods and works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower; and (b) services under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent
for employment of individual consultants.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist Orissa in: (a)
implementing a program of regulatory, institutional and tariff reforms
in its power sector; (b) supporting the institutional development of
the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission, the Orissa Hydropower
Corporation and the Grid Corporation of Orissa; (c) reinforcing and
rehabilitating its power system and its demand side management to make
power supply and consumption more efficient; (d) upgrading the environ-
mental performance of the power sector, and strengthening the environ-
mental management capabilities of the power utilities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rehabilitation of Transmission and Distribution and
            Development of PrivatePower Distribution
1.    Carrying out a program to rehabilitate Orissa's power trans-
mission and distribution system included in the FY1996/97-FY2002/03
time-slice of the Investment Plan.
2.    Implementing a program for the reduction of system losses in
Orissa's power sector.
Part B:     Demand-Side Management (DSM)
1.    Acquisition and installation of electricity meters for generating
stations, grid substations, other system requirements and consumers.
2.    Promoting efficient use of electricity, through, inter alia,
formulating, implementing and operationalizing load management and
Page  10
conservation strategies.
Part C:     Institutional Development, Training and Technical Assistance
1.    Provision of technical assistance to assist Orissa in implementing
the Power Sector Reform Program and to assist in the institutional
development of the Regulatory Commission, including training of the
staff of the Regulatory Commission.
2.    Provision of technical assistance and training to GRIDCO and OHPC
for implementing the Power Sector Reform Program, staff rationalization,
institutional development, including improving environmental management
capabilities and implementing the Project.
                             *     *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (Expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 2002                                      6,790,000
August 1, 2002                                        7,030,000
February 1, 2003                                      7,275,000
August 1, 2003                                        7,525,000
February 1, 2004                                      7,790,000
August 1, 2004                                        8,060,000
February 1, 2005                                      8,345,000
August 1, 2005                                        8,635,000
February 1, 2006                                      8,935,000
August 1, 2006                                        9,250,000
February 1, 2007                                      9,570,000
August 1, 2007                                        9,905,000
February 1, 2008                                     10,250,000
August 1, 2008                                       10,610,000
February 1, 2009                                     10,980,000
August 1, 2009                                       11,360,000
February 1, 2010                                     11,760,000
August 1, 2010                                       12,170,000
February 1, 2011                                     12,595,000
August 1, 2011                                       13,030,000
February 1, 2012                                     13,485,000
August 1, 2012                                       13,960,000
February 1, 2013                                     14,445,000
August 1, 2013                                       14,950,000
February 1, 2014                                     15,470,000
August 1, 2014                                       16,010,000
February 1, 2015                                     16,570,000
August 1, 2015                                       17,145,000
February 1, 2016                                     17,745,000
August 1, 2016                                       18,355,000
_______________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to
be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time
of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed as a
Page  11
                                       percentage per annum) applicable to
                                       the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                       multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
and (3), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $55,000,000.
2.    (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
      (b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the
equivalent of $3,000,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special
Account. The Bank may from time to time, by notice to the Borrower,
revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
Page  12
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
                  shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                  of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                  into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:
            (i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
                  or
            (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Page  13
                  Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
                  the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
                  the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
                  Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
                  refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount
                  of such payment or the portion thereof not so
                  eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall other-
                  wise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
                  Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
                  provided such evidence or made such deposit or
                  refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
