Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 4014 IN
                         Orissa Agreement
             (Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                           STATE OF ORISSA
                         Dated July 10, 1996
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 4014 IN
                         ORISSA AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF ORISSA, acting
by its Governor (Orissa).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three hundred fifty million dollars
($350,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to Orissa;
      (C)   part of the Project will be carried out by the Orissa
Hydro Power Corporation Limited (OHPC) and the Grid Corporation of
Orissa Limited (GRIDCO);
      (D)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith among the
Bank, and GRIDCO and OHPC, GRIDCO and OHPC have undertaken certain
obligations towards the Bank as set forth in the Project Agreement;
and
      (E)   the Bank has received a letter dated April 4, 1996 from
Page  2
the State of Orissa (Orissa) describing a program of objectives,
policies and actions to reform the power sector in Orissa (hereinafter
the Power Sector Reform Program) and declaring Orissa's commitment to
carry such program;
      WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Orissa declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end shall carry out or cause to be carried out:
            (i)   Part C.1 of the Project through its relevant
                  departments;
            (ii)  Part A of the Project through GRIDCO or Private
                  Distribution Companies;
            (iii) Part B of the Project through GRIDCO or End-Users;
                  and
            (iv)  the relevant activities under Part C.2 of the Project
                  through GRIDCO and OHPC respectively;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public utilities practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, Orissa shall cause GRIDCO and OHPC to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the respective obligations of GRIDCO and OHPC therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable GRIDCO and OHPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
      Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
hereof, Orissa shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to GRIDCO, and,
if necessary, to OHPC, Private Distribution Companies and End-Users
under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between Orissa,
and each of GRIDCO, OHPC, Private Distribution Companies and End-Users
under terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include,
that GRIDCO, OHPC, Private Distribution Companies and End-Users shall
pay interest on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate of not less than 13% per annum,
and repay the principal amount so relent over a period of 15 years
including therein a period of grace of five years and, that the foreign
exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
      (b)   Orissa shall make available to GRIDCO and OHPC, without
setting off any amounts that may be due to Orissa from GRIDCO and OHPC,
and to Private Distribution Companies and End-Users the proceeds of the
Loan immediately as they are withdrawn from the Loan Account and made
Page  3
available to Orissa by the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Orissa shall:
      (a)   prior to entering into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with a
Private Distribution Company ensure that:
            (i)   the Private Distribution Company has been selected in
                  accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
            (ii)  the activities to be carried out by such Company under
                  Part A of the Project meet the eligibility criteria
                  set forth in Part I of the Schedule to this Agreement
                  and are approved by the Bank for financing;
            (iii) a license under the Act has been granted to such
                  Company by the Regulatory Commission enabling it to
                  carry out such activities in a manner satisfactory to
                  the Bank; and
            (iv)  it obtains by an implementation contract with such
                  Company, approved by the Bank, rights adequate to
                  protect the interest of the Bank and Orissa including
                  such rights in respect of the carrying out and
                  operation of the approved activities as shall be
                  satisfactory to the Bank.
      (b)   prior to entering into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with an
End-User, ensure that:
            (i)   the activities to be carried out by such End-User
                  under Part B.2 of the Project meet the eligibility
                  criteria set forth in Part II of the Schedule to this
                  Agreement and are approved by the Bank for financing;
                  and
            (ii)  it obtains by an implementation contract with such
                  End-User, approved by the Bank, rights adequate to
                  protect the interest of the Bank and Orissa, including
                  such rights in respect of the carrying out and
                  operation of the approved activities as shall be
                  satisfactory to the Bank.
Provided, however, that the Bank's prior approval under clauses (i) and
(ii) of this paragraph (b) shall not be required in respect of an
activity implemented by an End-User under such Part B estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $200,000.
      Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 hereof, Orissa shall take all such actions
as may be necessary or required including provision of consents as
the shareholder of GRIDCO and OHPC, to enable GRIDCO and OHPC to
perform their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.06. (a) Orissa shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   Orissa shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by Orissa of its obligations under this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
Page  4
                          Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. Orissa shall, with the participation of GRIDCO
and OHPC:
      (a)   offer a part of its equity in GRIDCO and OHPC for sale to
the public under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank with
the objective of divesting such equity in accordance with a program
and timetable satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   take all such measures as may be necessary or required for
efficiently implementing the transactions resulting from such offer;
and
      (c)   where no tenders are received in response to such offer or
those that are received are not deemed responsive by Orissa, revise
the terms and conditions of such offer in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and take such other steps which shall, without prejudice to the
interests of Orissa, GRIDCO and OHPC, be adequate, in the view of the
Bank, to making such offers attractive for acceptance by the public.
      Section 3.02. Orissa shall indemnify GRIDCO for all liabilities
that may be incurred by GRIDCO as a result of commitments made by
Orissa or the Orissa State Electricity Board under power purchase
agreements, memoranda of understanding or other similar arrangements
with independent power producers.
      Section 3.03. Orissa shall:
      (a)   by December 31 of each year during the implementation of
the Project provide to the Bank a statement of the estimated expenditure
of the Regulatory Commission for the following Fiscal Year as prepared
by the Commission; and
      (b)   by March 31 of each year during the implementation of the
Project inform the Bank of the approved budget of the Regulatory
Commission for the following Fiscal Year.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Orissa thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify Orissa thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
Page  5
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
            For Orissa:
            Secretary to the Government of Orissa
            Department of Energy
            Bhubaneswar, India
                                             Telex:
                                             (0675) 6390
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by a Secretary to the
Government of Orissa or such other person or persons as Orissa shall
designate in writing, and Orissa shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  STATE OF ORISSA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE
                           Eligibility Criteria
      The following eligibility criteria shall apply for activities to
be carried out under Parts A and B.2 of the Project by Private
Distribution Companies and End-Users, respectively, referred to in
paragraphs a (ii) and b (ii) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
Part I:   Distribution by Private Distribution Companies Under Part A of
          the Project
(a)   The justification (in the context of the overall transmission and
Page  6
distribution development plan) and technical feasibility of the proposed
transmission and distribution investment shall have been established to
the satisfaction of the Bank;
(b)   All clearances/approvals including environmental clearances shall
have been obtained from the relevant ministries, departments, agencies
or other authorities of the Borrower and Orissa and documented in the
project report;
(c)   An environmental assessment shall have been carried out, and an
environmental mitigation plan, a resettlement and rehabilitation plan,
if needed, based on the environmental assessment report, and a plan for
the handling of materials to be replaced in the rehabilitation program,
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been prepared; and
(d)   A procurement plan shall have been prepared in accordance with the
overall procurement strategy, namely bulk procurement of main items,
turnkey construction by prequalified contractors (except for those
owner-supplied main items).
Part II:    Demand-Side Management Activities by End-Users Under Part
            B.2 of the Project
(a)   Justification and technical feasibility of the proposed activity
shall have been established to the satisfaction of the Bank; and
(b)   Financing and procurement plans acceptable to the Bank shall have
been prepared.
