                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2980



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-48520 TF-56948)



                                      ON A

                                LOAN
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 147 MILLION

                                     AND A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

               SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT

                                  June 19, 2014




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
China and Mongolia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2014)

                       Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan (RMB)
                                US$ 1.00 = US$ 6.1
                               RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.16

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               [January 1 – December 31]

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP        Affected Persons
BOD       Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BOT       Build Oprerate and Transfer
COD       Chemical Oxygen Demand
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EA        Environmental Assessment
EDZ       Economic Development Zone
EIA       Environment Impact Assessment
EMP       Environment Management Plan
EOP       End of Project
EPB       Environment Protection Bureau
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GIS       Geographic Information System
GWSC      Gaomi Water Supply Company
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IMO       International Maritime Organization
IMS       Information Management System
LME       Large Marine Ecosystems
MIS       Management Information System
MoF       Ministry of Finance
NPV       Net Present Value
NRW       Non Revenue Water
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QALP      Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
QER       Quality at Entry Review
QWC       Qixia Wastewater Company
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
RCR       Resettlement Completion Report
RP        Resettled Persons
RUEC      Rizhao Urban Environment Company
SEP       Shandong Environment Project
SEP II    Second Shandong Environment Project
SDS-SEA   Sustainable Development Strategy for the Seas of East Asia
SPG     Shandong Provincial Government
SPFB    Shandong Province Finance Bureau
SPPMO   Shandong Provincial Project Management Office
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
WTP     Water Treatment Plant
WWGC    Weifeng Wastewater Group Company
WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant




                          Vice President:   Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
                        Country Director:   Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                         Sector Manager:    Abhas Kumar Jha, EASIN
                    Project Team Leader:    Guangming Yan, EASCS
                       ICR Team Leader:     Guangming Yan, EASCS
                                                  CHINA
                                     Second Shandong Environment Project


                                                            CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Project Development and Global Environment Objectives, and Design .......... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................... 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................................. 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment Outcome ................. 11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................ 14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 16
Annex 2. Project Outputs by Component ...................................................................................... 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................................. 21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 34
Annex 5. GEF-supported Septic Tank Management Component ................................................. 36
Annex 6. Resettlement Implementation ........................................................................................ 40
Annex 7. Performance of Project-financed Wastewater Treatment Plants ................................... 42
Annex 8 Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................................... 44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 51


MAPS. IBRD 35288 and IBRD 34859R
                                    DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                     SECOND
                                                                     SHANDONG
Country:               China                   Project Name:
                                                                     ENVIRONMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
Project ID:            P077752,P090377         L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-48520,TF-56948
ICR Date:              06/19/2014              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:    SIL,SIL                 Borrower:
                                                                     OF CHINA
Original Total         USD 147.00M,                                  USD 136.09M,
                                               Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:            USD 5.00M                                     USD 5.00M


Environmental Category: A                      Focal Area: I
Implementing Agencies:
 Shandong Provincial Project Management Office
 Yantai Municipality
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None



B. Key Dates
SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT - P077752
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/26/2005    Effectiveness:          06/07/2007       06/07/2007
Appraisal:            04/17/2006    Restructuring(s):                        01/22/2010
Approval:             02/27/2007    Mid-term Review:        12/01/2009       03/30/2009
                                    Closing:                12/31/2013       12/31/2013

CN-GEF-Second Shandong Environment Project - P090377
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/26/2005    Effectiveness:                           06/07/2007
Appraisal:            04/17/2006    Restructuring(s):
Approval:             02/27/2007    Mid-term Review:        12/07/2009       03/30/2009
                                    Closing:                12/31/2013       12/31/2013




                                               i
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                   Moderately Satisfactory
GEO Outcomes                               Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                Low or Negligible
Risk to GEO Outcome                        Low or Negligible
Bank Performance                           Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry           Satisfactory    Government:               Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                              Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                              Satisfactory
Performance                                Performance


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT - P077752
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                              Rating:
       Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
                                 No                                    None
  at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                                 No                                    None
      time (Yes/No):                         Supervision (QSA)
     DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive status

CN-GEF-Second Shandong Environment Project - P090377
    Implementation                     QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                 Rating:
      Performance                             (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry
                               No                                      None
 at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                               No                                      None
     time (Yes/No):                    Supervision (QSA)
   GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive Status




                                          ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes
SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT - P077752
                                         Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                               77        79
Solid waste management                                    9         9
Sub-national government administration                    1         1
Water supply                                             13        11


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pollution management and environmental health            67        70
Water resource management                                33        30

CN-GEF-Second Shandong Environment Project - P090377
                                                       Original   Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                             100        100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery            33        33
Pollution management and environmental health            67        67




E. Bank Staff
SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT - P077752
        Positions                 At ICR            At Approval
Vice President:      Axel van Trotsenburg James W. Adams
Country Director:    Klaus Rohland        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:      Abhas Kumar Jha      Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader: Guangming Yan        Shenhua Wang
ICR Team Leader:     Guangming Yan
ICR Primary Author:  Guangming Yan




                                                iii
CN-GEF-Second Shandong Environment Project - P090377
        Positions                  At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:      Axel van Trotsenburg                  James W. Adams
Country Director:    Klaus Rohland                         David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:      Abhas Kumar Jha                       Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader: Guangming Yan                         Shenhua Wang
ICR Team Leader:     Guangming Yan
ICR Primary Author:      Guangming Yan




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to improve the environmental conditions in participating
municipalities/counties through a package of priority interventions, including upgrading
and development of wastewater collection and treatment facilities, river embankment
rehabilitation, solid waste management, water supply improvements, industrial pollution
monitoring, and enhancement of the financial performance and efficiency of key urban
environmental service agencies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Global Environment Objective of the GEF activity is to reduce land-based pollution
along the Yantai coast and the Bohai Sea through development of a pilot septic-tank
management system in Yantai and dissemination of the Yantai model in Shandong
Province and in other parts of China.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target      Completion or
                                              documents)        Values       Target Years
                Citizens’ satisfaction with wastewater, solid waste and water supply services
Indicator 1 :
                in participating cities/counties
Value
(quantitative or 66%                     92%                               97%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                 12/31/2013                       12/31/2013
Comments         Achieved. End-of-project survey indicates citizen’s satisfaction with water

                                             iv
(incl. %           supply, wastewater and solid waste services is 99%, 94% and 98%,respectively.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Improvement of water quality in cities/counties from Class V to Class IV
Value
(quantitative or   0                          148km                              129.5km
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                12/31/2013                      12/31/2013
                   Indicator is problematic. Achievement is based on the assumption that river
Comments
                   water quality improved in the sections of river courses where untreated
(incl. %
                   wastewater flows were intercepted through project-financed interceptor sewers,
achievement)
                   but no methodology is provided.
Indicator 3 :      Percentage of population connected to WWTPs
Value
(quantitative or   58%                        85%                                90.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                 12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Percentage of treated effluent reuse
Value
(quantitative or   0.2%                       21%                                18.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                12/31/2013                          12/31/2013
                   Achievement reported by SPPMO cannot be verified. The project did not finance
Comments           any tertiary treatment plant (for effluent re-use), largley to replenish rivers for
(incl. %           aesthetic purposes. As no definition on data collection and method was provided
achievement)       in the PAD, the accuracy of the data provided is questionable. Treated effluent
                   was used only in Zaozhuang to replenish Dongsha River.
Indicator 5 :      Rate of compliance of connected industries with the discharge standards.
Value
(quantitative or 60%                          90%                                98.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                      12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Percentage of population provided with solid waste services
Value
(quantitative or   84%                        95%                                95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                 12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. Solid waste services now cover all the original city beneficiaries
(incl. %
                   identified at project appraisal.
achievement)



                                                    v
(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally                         Actual Value
                                              Values (from     Revised                           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                approval        Target                          Completion or
                                               documents)       Values                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Pollution discharge to Bohai Sea reduced (BOD ton/year)
Value
(quantitative or 0                          1,700                             806.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                    12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                 Achievement is based on the corrected number of septic tanks (1,056 rather
Comments         1,700) in the Pilot Area, and the verified volume of septic tanks (24 m3 instead
(incl. %         of 44 m3). It can be concluded that BOD reduction was in line with original
achievement) target if the number of septic tanks and sizes are corrected. (Note: Measurement unit
                   is tons/year; coincidentally, the baseline target is the same as the number of septic tanks assumed
                   at appraisal)



(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                    Original Target               Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                     Values (from                  Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                       approval                   Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                     documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Volume of wastewater treated (million cubic m/year)
Value
(quantitative or   103                             226                                       239.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                 12/31/2013                      12/31/2013
Comments           Achieved The project financed only two WWTPs. However, the networks
(incl. %           expanded under the project conveyed wastewater to the existing WWTPs in
achievement)       project cities and the two WWTPs constructed under the project
Indicator 2 :      Rate of wastewater treated in the cities/counties (%)
Value
(quantitative or   65                              80                                        91.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                      12/31/2013                                12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Reduction of pollution load reaching the recipient rivers (ton COD/year)
Value
(quantitative or   9,400                           28,000                                    37,125
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                      12/31/2013                                12/31/2013
Comments
                   Exceeded.
(incl. %

                                                         vi
achievement)
                   Municipal solid waste collected and transferred to sanitary landfill
Indicator 4 :
                   (tons/year)
Value
(quantitative or 293,460                   450,775                           351,660
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                 Final achievement is 78% of target (comprising 160,260 tons/yr in Heze. and
Comments
                 191,400 tons/yr in Rizhao). The lower achievement assumed to be due to an
(incl. %
                 overestimation of waste generation at appraisal, including the waste
achievement)
                 minimization facility in Heze.
Indicator 5 : Population with access to water supply services (%)
Value
(quantitative or 84                        97                                99
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                 Achieved, measured for Gaomi only. Even though Huantai water
Comments         investments were deleted, there was a significant expansion of the
(incl. %         distribution networks in the fluoride-affected areas in Gaomi to serve over
achievement) 340,000 people. (21km of transmission and 403km distribution mains
                 installed under project).
                 Water production (a) Total Million cubic m/year; (b) Ground water
Indicator 6 :
                 /Total water production; (c) Liters/capital/day
Value
                 (a) 46.72; (b) 85%; (c)   (a) 104.03; (b)                   (a) 70.72; (b) 0;
(quantitative or
                 101                       39%; (c) 127                      (c) 100
Qualitative)

Date achieved 12/30/2005                     12/31/2013                        12/31/2013

                   Based on original project (including Huantai), total water production target
                   was not achieved. Based on Gaomi only, the target was achieved. The zero
                   value for end-of-project target for use of groundwater is the result of Gaomi
Comments
                   action to terminate use of ground water in November 2012, formalized
(incl. %
                   through an October 16, 2013 Provincial regulation prohibiting the use of
achievement)
                   groundwater in urban areas. Achievement of 100 lpcd represents average
                   water use in urban and rural area, whereas 127 lpcd was for Goami urban
                   area only.
Indicator 7 :      Non-revenue water in % of water produced (%)
Value
(quantitative or   25                        20                                10
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2005                12/31/2013                      12/31/2013
Comments           The indicator is not relevant to project activities. Achievement claimed
(incl. %           cannot be verified as the project did not finance any non-revenue water
achievement)       (NRW) reduction activities.
                   Cost recovery ratio of (a) wastewater management operations; (b) solid
Indicator 8 :
                   waste management operations; (c) water supply management operations
Value              (a) 2.5; (b) 1.0; (c) 1.6 (a) 1.2; (b)1.4; (c)            (a)

                                                  vii
(quantitative or                            1.2                                0.46/1.07/1.5;
Qualitative)                                                                   (b)0.55(c) 1.23
Date achieved 12/30/2013                    12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
                 Baseline data appears to be for the entire sector(s), while the targets appear
                 to refer to the performance of utility companies funded under the project
                 with covenanted targets. As some of the utility companies have been
Comments
                 provided funds other than revenue to meet operating costs, the cost recovery
(incl. %
                 ratio in some instances result in a value below 1.0. The cost recovery ratio
achievement)
                 for Weihai, Yantai and Gaomi wastewater companies is 0.46, 1.07 and 1.5
                 respectively, for Rizaho solid waste company is 0.55 and for Gaomi water is
                 1.23.
                 Numbers of installation of online automatic monitoring stations at
Indicator 9 :
                 industrial discharge sites
Value
(quantitative or 366                        800                                810
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                    12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments         Achieved, representing the number of industries with online monitoring
(incl. %         stations with a direct connection to the Provincial Environmental Protection
achievement) Bureau monitoring network
                 Public disclosure of the status of compliance of major pollution
Indicator 10 :
                 enterprises
Value                                                                          Real time
(quantitative or Annual Report              Monthly Report                     online
Qualitative)                                                                   monitoring
Date achieved 12/30/2005                    12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments         Complied. SPEPB publicly discloses online automatic monitoring
(incl. %         information on its website (http://58.56.98.78:8801/webgis_wry/webgis/#)
achievement) for the major industries.
Note: The source of all target data, indicated against the indicators in the table above, was provided by the
Shandong Province Project Management Office, which monitored performance throughout project, implementation
and reported in the borrower’s semi-annual progress reports.




                                                    viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                                          Actual
         Date ISR                                                     Disbursements
No.                      DO            GEO               IP           (USD millions)
         Archived
                                                                    Project 1 Project 2
     1   03/21/2008       S              S                S           28.19      0.50
     2   06/25/2009       S              S                S           65.48      1.07
     3   06/26/2010       S              S                S           78.37      1.78
     4   03/06/2011       S             MS                S           86.89      3.31
     5   03/03/2012       S             MS                S          110.89      4.09
     6   11/26/2012       S             MS                S          118.58      4.29
     7   06/07/2013       S             MS                S          119.77      4.29
     8   12/16/2013       S              S                S          128.35      4.63




H. Restructuring (if any)
                                            Amount Disbursed
                             ISR Ratings at
              Board Approved                at Restructuring in       Reason for
Restructuring                Restructuring
                                               USD millions     Restructuring & Key
   Date(s)
               PDO    GEO                                           Changes Made
                             DO GEO IP Project1 Project 2
              Change Change
                                                                To substitute a city for
                                                                one that dropped out,
                                                                and correct a drafting
                                                                error in the legal
                                                                agreement: (i)
                                                                Zhoucun was
01/22/2010      N             S         S      74.94            substituted for Huantai
                                                                that dropped out of the
                                                                project; and (ii) the
                                                                disbursement % for
                                                                civil works for
                                                                Zaozhuang was
                                                                corrected to 100%.




                                             ix
I. Disbursement Profile
P077752




P090377




                          x
1. Project Context, Project Development and Global Environment Objectives,
and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of project appraisal, Shandong Province had a population of 92 million, with 40%
living in urban areas. It has a 3,000-km coastline with the Bohai and Yellow Seas, both of which
drain a major part of the province. Shandong Province was one of the fastest growing provinces
in China in 2005. Infrastructure deficiencies in Shandong’s fast growing smaller cities included:
(a) poor quality and intermittent drinking water supply, due to inadequate water resources and
unsafe fluoride-affected ground water; (b) lack of proper solid waste management systems; (c)
recurrent flooding and waterlogging due to inadequate protection; and (d) poor environmental
conditions, including insufficient drainage and wastewater treatment and serious pollution of
rivers, and pollution discharges the Bohai Sea. Environmental services managed by municipal
departments were supply-driven, inefficient and lacked adequate cost recovery.

Shandong Provincial Government (SPG) policies called for: accelerated restoration of ground
water resources and surface resources through enhancing the treatment and water re-use;
increased collection and treatment of wastewater to achieve 65 percent of treatment in municipal
cities; and development adequate solid waste treatment and disposal facilities to handle 70% of
solid wastes from municipalities. Shandong was also a signatory to the Memorandum of
Agreement initiated by the United Nations Development Program/Global Environment
Facility/International Maritime Organization (UNDP/GEF/IMO) Regional Program to manage
the pollution of rivers and reduce land-based discharges into the Bohai Sea.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project was consistent with the Provincial Government’s
11th Five Year Plan focus in addressing increased wastewater collection and treatment, reuse of
treated effluent, protection of ground water resources, and supported Government priorities for
sustainable improvement of environmental conditions through investments for improved water
supply, wastewater, solid waste management, and reduced land-based pollution discharges to the
Bohai Sea, with a GEF-supported pilot to demonstrate a lower cost technology to manage the
pervasive pollution discharges from non-functioning septic tanks. The project provided the
opportunity for the World Bank to continue the long association with the Province, and share its
global experience for the new initiatives addressed in the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective was to improve the environmental conditions in participating
municipalities/counties through a package of priority interventions, including upgrading and
development of wastewater collection and treatment facilities, river embankment rehabilitation,
solid waste management, water supply improvements, industrial pollution monitoring, and
enhancement of the financial performance and efficiency of key urban environmental service
agencies. Key indicators, as approved, are set out in the Data Sheet above.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Global Environment Objective of the GEF-supported component was to reduce land-based
pollution along the Yantai coast and the Bohai Sea through development of a pilot septic-tank
management system in Yantai, and dissemination of the Yantai model in Shandong Province and

                                               1
in other parts of China. The key GEO indicator, as approved, was ‘pollution discharge to Bohai
Sea reduced (BOD ton/year)’.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification. Not applicable.

1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification. Not applicable.

1.6 Main Beneficiaries.

The primary beneficiaries of the project were originally estimated at 3,500,000. At the end of the
project, the total beneficiaries amounted to 4,169,000, including 340,000 people in fluoride-
affected areas, about 300,000 beneficiaries under the GEF component, and participating
government agencies, i.e., Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau, municipalities of Heze, Rizhao,
Gaomi, Yantai, Weihai, Weifeng, Zhoucun, Qixia and Zaozhuang, and the Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB).

1.7 Original Components (as approved);

The original project components included: (i) wastewater collection networks and treatment
facilities in Gaomi, Huantai, Qixia, Weifang, Weihai, Yantai and Zaozhuang, with associated
river embankment rehabilitation in Qixia, Weifang and Zaozhuang, and a GEF pilot septic tank
management system in Yantai, including a fleet of septic tank emptying vehicles, and regulations
for septic tank management; (ii) solid waste management in Heze and Rizhao; (iii) water supply
improvements in Gaomi and Huantai; and (iv) institutional development and capacity building for
utility companies, Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB), and decision-makers. A detailed
component description is available in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

1.8 Revised Components

Huantai (Zibo Municipality), which had water supply and wastewater investment, dropped out of
the project in 2010 yielding Loan savings of US$19.2 million. Zhoucun district of the same
municipality was substituted for Huantai. The new subcomponent, with a total cost of US$ 30
million financed 131 km of wastewater collection networks, and 23.2 km of km of river
embankment improvements to control flooding. The collection networks also conveyed
wastewater from the neighboring district upstream (Zouping), under a formal cost sharing
agreement with Zhoucun, promoting inter-municipal cooperation.

1.9 Other significant changes

Project Restructuring. The Loan Agreement was amended in January 2010 to: (i) delete Huantai
and substitute Zhoucun as described above; and (ii) correct a drafting error in the legal agreement,
to increase the civil works disbursement percentage for Zaozhuang from 70% to 100%.

Baseline Data of the Pilot Area of the GEF Component. The original number and estimated
volumes of septic tanks in the pilot area in Yantai were found to be incorrect, when tank
emptying commenced. The number of septic tanks was found to be 1,056, instead of 1,700, and
the average volume of a septic tank was found to be about 24 m3, instead of the figure of 44 m3
estimated during the baseline survey. These discoveries impacted on the performance targets for

                                                 2
the subcomponent. During implementation, the Yantai Septic Tank Management Office expanded
the number of septic tanks covered by including an additional 520 septic tanks from outside the
pilot area.

Cancellation of Loan Savings. The original plan was to pre-treat wastewater intercepted from
Weifang city in constructed wetlands downstream along the Bailang River. Due to the
Government mandate that required new municipal WWTPs be upgraded to Class 1A discharge
standards by 2015, the Weifeng Municipal Government decided to delete the pre-treatment and
construct a new WWTP under a BOT contract. Up to Loan closure, the Weifeng Municipal
Government and SPG was not able to formulate alternative proposals to utilize Loan savings,
resulting in a total Loan saving of about US$ 11 million, which was canceled at Loan closure.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation

Soundness of Background Analysis. The Bank task team ensured that adequate background
information on national policies and guidelines, past experience of similar projects in China, and
specific background conditions in the Province, Bank policies and practices, and lessons learned
were reviewed and analyzed early in the preparation. The terms of reference agreed for
preparation of the project feasibility studies (by the client) also required that collection and
analysis of the comprehensive background information.

Consistency with Provincial Strategy and Goals. Project preparation was aligned with the
Shandong Province’s environmental management strategy that included: (i) accelerated
restoration of the ground resources; improved river water quality; discontinuation of ground water
use by industries; (ii) increased collection and treatment of wastewater to reach 65% in
municipalities; re-use of the treated effluent; (iii) improved efficiency, and financial viability of
wastewater services in line with central government policy directives sustainability of sector
agencies.

Incorporation of Lessons Learned. Project design incorporated lessons learned from previous
operations, e.g., lack of borrower ownership, insufficient investments in environmental
infrastructure, need for financial reforms, over design, etc.

Design and Quality at Entry

Project Development Objectives. The PDO was consistent with the Province’s commitment to
environmental improvement and sustainability objectives, and alleviating infrastructure
deficiencies in cities that were urbanizing at a rapid pace. The GEO was also consistent with the
Province’s commitment to the UNDP/GEF/IMO Regional Program for protect large marine
ecosystems (LME) in the Bohai Sea.

Project Design. Project design was consistent with the PDO, and addressed Borrower’s priorities
including: (i) increased wastewater collection and treatment, improved river water quality,
reduced land-based pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea, and enhanced wastewater management
by industries; (ii) safe drinking water quality, including limitations on ground water abstraction;


                                                 3
(iii) improved solid waste management including waste separation, recycling and eco-friendly
disposal; and (iv) improved financial performance of utility companies.

Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures. The overall risk of the project and components were
correctly assessed as ‘modest’. The risks of delay in tariff setting and low user fees for
wastewater and solid waste management services were assessed as ‘substantial’ at appraisal,
which was somewhat overly conservative because, at the time of project appraisal, Shandong
Province had formulated guidelines for minimum municipal wastewater and solid waste tariffs.

The mitigation measure adopted for the delayed revision of utility tariffs was the definition of
total revenue as the ‘total operating revenue and non-operating income’ in the Project Agreement.
This measure was realistic and appropriate, specifically, in the early years of development of the
wastewater sector in China. The mitigation measure adopted for solid waste tariff reform was a
covenant requiring a study, recommendations and implementation of a tariff, which was
appropriate in a climate where levy of direct solid waste charges is relatively new in China.

Performance Indicators. As discussed in Section 2.3, the design of several indicators was weak in
their definition, link to project activities, monitoring methods and targets.

Adequacy of Government Commitment. Through past Bank-financed projects, Shandong
Province had demonstrated its commitment to sound environmental management. The Province
had formulated policies and guidelines to support sustainable operations of its utility agencies,
including minimum municipal tariffs for water supply, wastewater and solid waste services. The
Province had already signed Memorandum of Agreement of the UNDP/GEF/IMO Regional
Program committing to reduction of land-based pollution to the Bohai Sea. and the Yellow Sea.
The Province also designated the highly experienced Shanding Provincial Project Management
Office (SPPMO) to manage project preparation, coordinate project activities, including close
attention to social and environmental safeguards.

QAG Quality at Entry Rating. A quality at entry review was not carried out by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) at project appraisal. However, a Quality Assessment of Lending
Portfolio (QALP) conducted in June 2010, judged the overall QAE as satisfactory, and this
review agrees with the assessment.

2.2 Implementation

Factors that Contributed to Successful Implementation. All original project components were
completed by the original loan closing date of December 31, 2013, except for the pre-treatment
facility at Weifeng, and the Huantai subcomponent, which was deleted. The original planned
project outputs and actual achievements are described in detail in Annex 2. About US$ 136.7
million of the Loan and US 5.00 million of the GEF Grant were disbursed, and all covenants were
complied with.

Factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project, on time, and within
budget, include: (i) strong SPG ownership of the project; (ii) environmental management policies
and framework, and experience in implementing Bank-financed projects; (iii) problem-free
procurement performance; (iv) incorporation of SPG priorities, social and environmental targets,
realistic implementation period, and       achievable project covenants; (v) readiness for
implementation, with detailed designs and bid documents completed for the first years’
implementation, that enabled early completion of the Weihai, Gaomi, Yantai, Heze and Rizhao
components in 2010 and 2011, more than two years before the Loan closing date; (vi) the

                                                4
flexibility shown by the Bank to accommodate Borrower’s requests for design changes, to
substitute new components in lieu of a deletion, as in the case of Huantai; (vii) having the Task
Team Leader, procurement, financial management and safeguard specialists located in the
country office to facilitate early resolution of issues; and (viii) the determination of Yantai
Municipality to formulate and implement the GEF-supported pilot septic tank management
system with necessary adjustments and establishing a permanent Office for Septic Tank
Management, despite the difficulties experienced with: incorrect baseline data; procurement and
registration of foreign-manufactured septic tank emptying vehicles; and challenges of emptying
septic with highly consolidated settled solids.

Loan Savings from the Weifeng Component. As mentioned in Section 1.9 above, with the
Government requirement that all new municipal WWTPs be upgraded to Class 1A discharge
standard, Weifeng decided not to implement the pretreatment facility agreed at appraisal, but
constructed a 100,000 m3/day WWTP in mid-2013, under a BOT arrangement, to treat the
intercepted wastewater from Weifeng city. This decision resulted in a Loan saving of about
US$ 11 million. Shandong was not able to provide alternative proposals for the use of the savings
which were then canceled at closure.

Changes in Qixia Component. The original plan to collect and treat wastewater from the Qixia
economic development zone (EDZ) did not materialize because sufficient wastewater was not
generated from the EDZ to utilize the 20,000 m3/d capacity of the WWTP, due to a change in
policy on the type of industries permitted in the EDZ. The WWTP was not operating at Loan
closure. However, Qixia Municipality plans to fully utilize the plant capacity through transfer of
wastewater from its plant in the city. Accordingly, Qixia financed a new 30 km wastewater trunk
main, which is currently 90% completed, and scheduled for completion by mid-2014.

Mid-term Review. During the mid-term review, held in March/April 2009, the Bank agreed to
substitute Huantai with Zhoucun, a district in the same municipality, and recognized the need to
correct a drafting error in the disbursement percentage for civil works in Zaozhuang. This led to
the restructuring of the project in January 2010.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. Several indicators had problems of unclear linkage to project activities, definition
monitoring methods, and targets. Specific cases were: (i) improvement of river water quality
improvement (from Class V to Class IV) was indicated in kilometers with no explanation of how
to measure; (ii) inclusion of a performance indicator for non revenue water even though the
project did not finance this activity; (iii) misalignment of the cost recovery ratio indicator
(Indicator 8 in datasheet section F); and (iv) incorrect baseline data on the number and volume of
septic tanks for the GEF component indicator, which inflated the indicator targets for pollution
discharge to the Bohai Sea.

More accurate measurement of improvement of environmental conditions would have been
possible had the Results Framework set baseline indicators by sector and by municipality.
However, the PAD did include mid-term review (2009) targets, which were helpful to assess
project progress.

Monitoring. The SPPMO collated and reported monitoring results covering the full scope of the
project, which were satisfactory for their reliability, quality and on-time reporting.



                                                5
Utilization. Monitoring and evaluation information was used by the project cities, the SPPMO
and the Bank to support decisions on change to components. The SPPMO brought to the attention
of the Bank the difficulties to interpret and measure some indicators. The specific case of
inaccuracies in the baseline data on the number and volume of septic tanks in Yantai came to
light only after the septic tank emptying equipment was procured and deployed. Proposals to
revise problematic indicators, developed after the mid-term review, were not acted upon because
it was too late in the project implementation. The EPB utilized the results of online monitoring to
apply sanctions on industries to ensure compliance, including imposition of fines and suspension
of operations.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project triggered three of the Bank’s safeguards policies as elaborated below.

Social Safeguards. The project triggered the Bank’s operational policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement and the safeguard screening category was S2. Resettlement Action Plans were
prepared, in consultation with affected persons (AP), and publicly disclosed, complying with
World Bank policies and procedures. Resettlement activities were carried out satisfactorily,
except in Qixia and Zaozhuang, where implementation delays occurred due to the slow pace of
land acquisition and resettlement. External monitoring of safeguard implementation was carried
out by the Shandong Construction Development and Research Institute, in accordance with the
requirements of the legal agreements. Annual safeguard compliance reports prepared by the
project implementing units were submitted regularly. All resettlement was done in accordance
with Chinese regulations and Bank policies. The Resettlement Completion Report (RCR)
indicates that resettlement implementation was successfully completed with the full participation
of the affected persons, and their standards of living improved, and no resettlement issues
remained at project closure. More details are provided in Annex 8 (Resettlement
Implementation).

Environmental Safeguards. The project was designated as Category A for the purposes of the
Bank’s Operational Policy 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The EA and EMP were prepared
according to national policies and regulations and the Bank safeguard policies. The EMP was
implemented satisfactorily by the SPPMO. As part of the January 2010 restructuring, the Bank
conducted an environmental survey of the newly proposed wastewater collection subcomponent
in Zhoucun, and confirmed the subcomponent would be classified as Category “B” due its nature
and potential impacts. An additional EA and EMP were prepared by the borrower and reviewed
by Bank. The final drafts were disclosed locally and in the Infoshop on December 10, 2009.

Dam Safety. The project also triggered the Bank’s operational policy on Safety of Dams (OP
4.37). Four existing dams/reservoirs, Bailang River Reservoir, Xiashan Reservoir, Wangwu
Reservoir and Anli Reservoir Bailang River Reservoir, Xiashan Reservoir, Wangwu Reservoir
and Anli Reservoir, were subjected dam safety requirements. Remedial works of Wangwu
Reservoir were satisfactorily completed during 2000 to 2002, and accepted. Remedial works for
Bailang River Reservoir and Xiashan Reservoir were also completed, Remedial works for Anli
Reservoir were completed in August, 2011, and the remedial works of the spillway, spillway
bridge, and embankment road, completed in 2011 were accepted in May 2012. In summary, dam
and reservoir safety requirements were fully complied with.

Procurement. Procurement activities were carried out satisfactorily by all project cities in full
compliance with Bank procurement procedures. No particular issues were noted.

                                                6
Financial Management. The financial management performance, including accounting,
budgeting, internal control, funds flow, financial reporting and auditing, was satisfactory. Audit
compliance was also satisfactory, without any audit qualifications.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

All project companies are expected to continue using the following reforms introduced under the
project: (i) preparation of annual budgets for adequate O&M of the facilities; (ii) preparation of
annual financial statements, including projections to facilitate decisions on annual budget
allocations including necessary subsidies and/or tariff increases; (iii) continuation of the training
plans; and (iv) SPG will continue its policy to promote financial autonomy of wastewater
companies.

Gaomi Water Supply Company. The Gaomi Municipality will review the current institutional
arrangements for rationalizing the provision of water supply and wastewater services, with the
aim of improving the efficiency and cost effectiveness of service delivery.

Solid Waste Companies in Heze and Rizhao. These companies plan to maintain the levels of
service, and improve collection to keep cities clean. They will be funded through government
budgets, including the cost of operation of the landfills.

Yantai Septic Tank Management. The Yantai Municipal Government will: (i) provide adequate
budget to continue the septic tank management program; (ii) make plans to expand the septic tank
management program citywide in a phased manner; (iii) incorporate the cost of septic tank
management in the wastewater tariff, in the next wastewater tariff revision; and (iv) review the
city’s building code requirement of a septic tank for each building, irrespective of whether sewers
are available.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives. The PDOs were fully consistent with the national government and Shandong Province
policies for reducing domestic and industrial pollution discharges, improving water quality in the
major rivers, protecting large marine ecosystems, improving environmental management in major
cities, improving wastewater treatment rates, improving water supply coverage, and increasing
water re-use. The objectives were also consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) of FY2006-FY2010 (Report 46896-CN) with respect to (i) managing resource scarcity and
environmental challenges, especially related to water pollution reduction and conservation and
observing international environmental conventions; and (ii) promoting balanced urbanization and
improving the quality of urban life. The PDO remained well aligned with the new CPS (Report
#67566-CN) of FY2013-FY2016. It also remained relevant to the priorities for Shandong
Province at the end of the project.

Design. Project design, including the blended GEF, correctly identified the crucial issues, and
incorporated appropriate and necessary focused interventions for: (i) improved wastewater
treatment rate, and water supply coverage; (ii) effective measures for septic tank management to
remove a major source of land-based pollution discharge to the Bohai Sea; (iii) solid waste
separation, recycling, composting and sanitary disposal; (iv) water supply in fluoride-affected

                                                 7
areas (v) sustainability and realistic cost recovery for water supply and wastewater services; (vi)
expansion of online monitoring of industries; and (vii) utility institutional and financial reforms.

Implementation. The project design and implementation arrangements, and the GEF support for
project implementation, as described in the Section 2.1 and Section 2.2 above, contributed to
achievement of the project objectives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives

Project Development Objective. The projects’ environmental investments in the nine medium-
sized municipalities supported improvements in wastewater services (100,000 m3/d treatment
capacity and 370 km of collection sewers), water supply services (105,000 m3/d treatment
capacity and 432 km of distribution networks), and solid waste services (waste separation plant,
collection and landfill equipment, and 780 tons/day of landfill capacity), that resulted in
substantial environmental improvements and contributed to improved livability in their
jurisdictions. The project satisfactorily achieved its objectives, as most performance targets were
either met or exceeded. The rate of citizen satisfaction with services in these three sectors, which
started at an average of 66%, reached on average 93% by project closing, slightly exceeding the
end-of-project target of 92%.

Wastewater Collection and Treatment and River Embankment Works. Outcome indicators for
the wastewater component include: (i) volume of wastewater treated reached 239.6 million
m3/year versus the end-of-project target of 226 million m3/year; (ii) the rate of wastewater
treated in the cities/counties reached 91.9% exceeding the end-of-project target of 80%; (iii) the
reduction in COD pollution load reaching the recipient rivers was 37,125 tons/year at end-of-
project, compared to only 28,000 tons/year at project start; and (iv) was achievement in
“improvement of water quality in the cities/counties from Class V to Class IV”, was 129.5 km,
compared to the end-of-project target of 148 km (problems with this indicator are discussed in
Section 2.3). As seen through these indicators, the works have improved wastewater collection
and treatment, and improved water quality of river systems, which contributed to a better
environment in project towns. Overall citizen satisfaction with wastewater services stood at
94.8% at project’s end.

Water Supply. Outcome indicators for the water supply component include: (i) the percentage of
the population with access to improved water supply rose from 84% to 99%, exceeding the target
of 97%; (ii) groundwater abstraction, compared to total water production, dropped from 85% at
project start to zero at the end-of-project, following provincial regulations prohibiting the use of
groundwater in urban areas; and over 730,000 people received improved water supply, including
340,000 people in fluoride-affected areas. The citizen satisfaction level in the final survey was
99% for water supply.

Solid Waste Management. Indicators of success of this component include: (i) municipal solid
waste collected and transferred to a sanitary landfill was 293,460 tons/year at appraisal, and
reached 351,660 tons/year compared to end-of-project target of 450,775 tons/year, due to an over-
estimation of future waste generation at appraisal; (ii) the percentage of population provided with
solid waste services rose from 84% at appraisal to 99% at project end, meeting the end of project
target; and (iii) cleaner cities with waste disposal at landfills. The citizen satisfaction with solid
waste services reached 98%.

The financial performance of water supply, wastewater and solid waste companies improved, and
they were in compliance with the financial covenants in their subsidiary loan agreements. This

                                                  8
achievement was possible through a provision in the legal agreements that defined net revenues to
include operating revenue and non-operating income. This provision was particularly appropriate
for the relatively new wastewater and solid waste sectors, which are considered still under
consolidation.

The capacity of the Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, for industrial pollution control,
was enhanced with expansion of the online monitoring of industries, and the publication of real
time monitoring data on its website. It also resulted in increased compliance by industries.

GEO. The outcomes of the GEF intervention are: (i) reduction of pollution discharges to the
Bohai Sea; (ii) introduction of a lower cost technology for septic tank management; (iii)
introduction of the culture of regular periodic emptying of septic tanks; (iv) establishment of
permanent institutional arrangements for septic tank management in Yantai, including
development of a GIS-based information management system to track and monitor tanker routes,
operational data, and the frequency of emptying; (v) dissemination of the experience within China
and abroad; and (vi) commencement of a discussion on septic tank design, and changes to
building code requirements for septic tanks. The above achievements were possible, with
adjustments made to the monitoring targets to be consistent with the correct baseline data relating
to the number and volumes of septic tanks in the pilot area. On the basis of the corrected baseline
data, the performance targets for BOD reduction are deemed achieved.

Contributions to Meeting Core Sector Indicators. The project contributed to meeting the Core
Sector Indicators as illustrated in the table below:

                  Indicator                                       Actual Achieved
Voume(mass) of COD pollution load reduction                           37,125 t
achieved under the project
Number of people in urban areas provided with                          730,000
access to Improved Water Sources under the
project
Number of water utilities that the project is                             1
supporting
Total Number of project beneficiaries                                 4,169,000


3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

Economic Analysis was carried out, at appraisal, for all wastewater, water and solid waste
components. A Cost Effective Analysis guided the selection of priority interventions for the
project using least cost methodology. Alternative project designs were identified and evaluated in
order to select the least cost solutions for the project. The least cost methodology was applied for
all project components and included a financial comparison of the alternatives based on capital
investments and cost of O&M. Cost Benefit of the components was quantified by analyzing NPV
and EIRR. The results showed returns above 15%.

End of project analysis was carried out to assess the economic return. An incremental approach
was used, determining plusses and minuses to the economic return as a result of project changes
during implementation. Overall, the analysis shows that project changes during implementation


                                                 9
did not have any significant effect on the economic return, and that all components maintained a
satisfactory economic rate of return. Details on the economic analysis are found in Annex 3.

Financial Analysis was carried out at appraisal to determine cost recovery tariffs. The Financial
Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) analysis was not carried out, as most of the components were non-
revenue-generating. Analysis of the tariff increases showed affordability by low-income
households.

During implementation, non-commercial wastewater and solid waste companies were in
compliance with the cost recovery ratio covenant. The companies met cash outgoings with the
help of Government subsidies. Water supply operations of GWSC complied with the cost
recovery ratio covenant until 2011, but will need revision of the water tariff to remain in
compliance in the future. GWSC was, however, able to meet cash outgoings. The current tariff
level did not allow the water supply operations to be in compliance with the covenant on capital
investment needs coverage. The covenanted debt service ratio did not apply to any of the project
companies, as they all avoided incurring additional debt.

Apart from Gaomi water tariffs revisions, project cities were only able to revise tariffs to a
limited extent since project start. This is consistent with other cities in China where the
wastewater tariff, in general, solely covers the direct expenses such as cost of O&M. Comparison
of the utility tariff revisions with the overall economic development indicates that these were
fully affordable to the beneficiary population. Moreover, the fiscal capacity of the participating
municipalities improved during the project as municipal revenue increased significantly since
2005. Additional details on financial analysis are provided in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The PDO was relevant at the project start, and remained relevant through to the end of the
project. The project development outcomes were achieved, as illustrated by the performance
indicators, where many of the ‘end of project’ targets were exceeded. However, several indicators
had problems of unclear linkage to the project activities, definition and monitoring method,
causing difficulties in verifying achievements. Efficiency of the investments is satisfactory, per
the economic analysis presented. Therefore, the overall outcome rating for the PDO was
considered Moderately Satisfactory.

The GEO remained relevant throughout implementation because the GEF-supported initiative
removed one of the key sources of pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea. Through the
dissemination efforts of the component, Yantai city officials and other stakeholders in China and
regionally, shared the experience of an efficient low cost technology for septic tank management.
However, as mentioned above, the issues with the baseline data on septic tanks inflated the
targets for pollution discharge to the Bohai Sea, causing partial achievement of project target.
Therefore, the overall outcome rating for the GEO was considered Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had no specific interventions on poverty reduction, and gender issues. However, it did
improve the living environment for the broader population in the project cities, including women

                                               10
and the poor who benefited from improved water supply, better sanitation services, and improved
opportunities for income enhancement from the extensive construction activities. The project is
aligned with World Bank Group’s twin goals of ending extreme poverty and promoting shared
prosperity among the population living in small and medium cities and lagging areas of Shandong
Province.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Yantai Septic Tank Management Office, established as part of the project, will gradually
expand its emptying activities to cover much of the 19,000 septic tanks in the city.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

(a) Unintended Financial Benefit to Qixia Municipality. The inability to utilize the completed
Qixia WWTP has resulted in an unintended outcome that will benefit Qixia city. This change has
helped accelerate Qixia’s plan to relocate the existing WWTP within the city, and realize the
opportunity cost of the land currently occupied by it.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment
Outcome
Rating: Low

The risk to development outcomes is low because the Shandong Province environmental
management strategy is very much in sync with the PDO. Based on the track record, SPG is very
likely to continue its commitment to enhance environmental management in the Province, and
improve quality of life to sustain economic development and growth. SPG has formulated
minimum tariffs for municipal water supply, wastewater and solid waste services to promote
sustainability, ensured tariff revisions about every three years, and has supported increased
autonomy in utility companies.

The completed WWTP in Qixia was not operating at project closure due to low flows from the
EDZ, which will delay benefits. However, this WWTP will be fully utilized by mid-2014 when
the pipeline, under construction, is completed to transfer wastewater from the existing WWTP in
Qixia city.

The risk to project investments from climate change is low. Risks to some investments,
particularly, the sea outfall in Yantai, is low, because the outfall pipeline is secured at the sea bed,
and the incidences of typhoons and earthquakes in this area are low. The risks to operation of
WWTPs from potential flooding will be temporary, hence considered low,

The risk that the landfill in Heze will have a life shortened life, though possible, is small. Should
the volume of waste transferred to the landfill continue to increase, the operation of the waste
separation facility can be enhanced to minimize inorganic waste conveyed to the landfill. In
addition, early planning could be done to expand the landfill.



                                                  11
The risk to the GEO is low because the Yantai Municipality has established a dedicated
permanent office (Septic Tank Management Office), with staff and annual budget allocations, and
plans to expand the operation citywide. The septic tank management system is also likely to be
replicated in other municipalities in China.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank comprised a sound skill mix of technical staff with very senior environmental and
sanitary engineers, a senior financial management specialist, a senior financial analyst, senior
social and environmental safeguards specialists, and was headed by a Chinese speaking senior
urban specialist. Many key team members were based in Beijing and/or were Chinese speaking,
which facilitated communications. The team prepared the project in about one and a half years
from Concept Review in October 2005 to Board approval in February 2007, at a cost of
US$502,000.

The PDO and GEO were highly relevant to address the critical issues in Borrower’s
environmental management strategy and needs. They also conformed to the CPS goals and the
Bank’s larger objective of protecting large marine ecosystems. Project design (as described
above) and implementation arrangements were appropriate for the Borrower’s capacity level and
satisfactory to achieve the outcomes at the least cost. Project design had realistic goals for sector
development, particularly in the wastewater sector where a phased development approach was
adopted for cost recovery. Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated ‘satisfactory’,
despite weaknesses in the design of performance indicators.

As indicated earlier, the project was reviewed by QΑG under the 2010 Quality Assessment of
Lending Portfolio. The ratings from this assessment were: (i) Objectives: likely to achieve project
objectives; (ii) Project Design: Satisfactory; (iii) Results Framework: Moderately Satisfactory;
(iv) Government Commitment: Highly Satisfactory; (v) Risk Assessment: Satisfactory; (vi)
Readiness for Implementation: Highly Satisfactory; (vii) Effectiveness of Bank Management
During Preparation/Appraisal: Satisfactory. This review agrees with QAG’s ratings.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Formal Bank supervision of the project twice a year, and the location of the task team leader and
all fiduciary and safeguard staff in the country office, helped maintain frequent contact and
support to the Borrower, contributed to satisfactory supervision. The Bank’s team represented a
variety of skills adequate to supervise the project and benefited from expert guidance from
Headquarters particularly on the septic tank management component. The average annual
supervision budget of US$60,000 was sufficient to monitor progress and provide sufficient
guidance. (See annex 4 for details.)

The Bank was responsive and engaged actively with the Borrower during project implementation.
When Huantai County was deleted from the project, Zhoucun district was selected and included
into the project in a timely manner which ensured the designed project outcome. A number of

                                                 12
recommendations for utilizing the loan savings under the Weifang component were provided to
the client, even though these attempts failed due to the disagreement between relevant
stakeholders within Shandong Province. The Bank moreover proposed changes to several results
indicators with weak linkages with the project but did not manage to revise these accordingly
partly due to the failed attempt to carry out the restructuring.

The Bank worked closely with Yantai Municipality to accelerate the implementation of the GEF-
supported septic tank management component, which made relatively slow progress initially,
which explains the ‘moderately satisfactory’ rating until late 2012. Generally speaking, the team
identified and addressed implementation issues in a timely manner.

The QALP review of 2010 rated the Bank’s supervision effort as satisfactory, with a highly
satisfactory rating for adequacy of staffing arrangements, skill mix and staff continuity and for
oversight of social aspects. The social specialist joined all formal supervision missions and
carefully supervised implementation of the RAP as reflected in mission aide-memoires and the
excellent resettlement outcomes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed above, and in the earlier sections, project design, quality at entry, and supervision
were satisfactory, despite some weaknesses in the performance indicators. The overall Bank
performance is rated ‘satisfactory’.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Shandong Provincial Government (SPG) performance is rated satisfactory because SPG: (i)
was fully committed to the PDO; (ii) maintained its strong environmental management agenda;
(iii) provided high quality project management and coordination of implementation in project
cities/counties and supplied sufficient and timely counterpart funds; (iv) maintained its
commitment to sustainability through advocating full cost recovery, and setting guidelines for
minimum wastewater and solid waste tariffs to be adopted by municipal governments; (v)
continued to give priority to industrial pollution control, and enhanced its capacity for online
monitoring of industries; and (vi) promoted water conservation through regulatory measures to
limit use of groundwater and re-use of treated wastewater.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

All implementing agencies in the project cities performed satisfactorily in preparation of detailed
designs, procurement, contract management, quality control, safeguards implementation and
financial management. Some implementing agencies completed their components in about three
years from project start. Two project cities completed implementation in 2013, largely due to the
difficulties with land acquisition. Unfortunately Weifeng was not able to come up with a
satisfactory proposal to use its savings before the Loan closing date, leaving a large undisbursed
Loan balance. Qixia was not able to utilize the completed wastewater treatment facility because
of inadequate wastewater flows. However, this facility will be put into operation by the middle of

                                                13
2014. All implementing agencies were in compliance with the financial performance covenants
Implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

In view of the satisfactory performance of both the SPG and implementing agencies, described
above, and the over satisfactory outcome of the project, the Borrower performance is rated
‘satisfactory’.

6. Lessons Learned

Performance Targets for New Utility Companies. Experience from the project shows the
wisdom of not subjecting newly created government-owned companies with no financial
autonomy, to loan obligations or covenants they are not able to comply with. While such
requirements may be more appropriate for the established water supply sector, they are highly
challenging for new wastewater and solid waste sectors which are still developing. Newly set up
companies in these sectors do not have an independent revenue stream and are fully dependent on
government subsidies.

Financial Autonomy of Utility Companies. Without an independent revenue stream, the
wastewater and solid waste companies enjoy limited financial autonomy. Funds for expansion of
facilities to meet growing demands, therefore, remain under the control of local authorities. The
responsibility for the daily operations and maintenance, however, rests with the utility companies,
using funds provided on an annual budget provided by local authorities. The operational and
financial performance of utility companies could be improved by giving them increased financial
independence through remitting utility service fees directly to the utility companies. This could
potentially encourage the utility companies to optimize operations and increase revenue, and
provide incentives to connect and service new customers, which would require change of the
current ‘government fee’ to a tariff, the income of which will be subject to tax. A prerequisite for
obtaining benefits linked to financial autonomy is, however, that service fees collected reflect the
actual costs of providing the service.

Projected Growth of EDZs. The Bank needs to make realistic assessments of growth for
establishment of supply-driven economic development zones. China has a number of highly
successful economic development zones established under the right conditions. However, EDZs
established without the right underlying economic drivers, have slow starts or are not successful.
Such was the case in Qixia where wastewater investments were planned on the basis of weak
assessments of growth.

Use of Septic Tanks. The experience and knowledge gained from implementing the GEF-
supported septic tank management component have demonstrated the need for regular septic tank
emptying as well as, and their relatively limited use when cities are fully sewered. They are also
expected to influence government policy and building code requirements in the near future, with
respect to: (i) the need to intercept and treat pollution discharge that would enter the Bohai Sea;
(ii) modification of the building code to require septic tanks only where there are no sewer
systems; (iii) regulations to require property owners to empty septic tanks at specified
frequencies; and (iv) improvements to septic designs for enhanced BOD removal.




                                                14
Performance Monitoring Indicators. Performance indicator design needs to receive careful
attention at project appraisal to avoid difficulties during implementation. They need to be focused
on the key outcomes of the development objective, and limited in number; indicators need to be
clear and measurable; and explanatory notes should be provided where necessary, to explain the
intent and method of measurement.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower states that the project was very successful with most of its original objectives
achieved particularly in terms of the planned physical interventions and it would be worthwhile
for local governments and enterprises to learn from the Bank’s project appraisal methodologies.

The Borrower also raised the issues listed below:
 a) The monitoring and evaluation framework and associated performance indicators proved to
    be poorly designed and the established performance baseline were inadequately
    documented.
 b) The Bank’s requirement to on-lend to agencies with no financial capacity to repay, is a
    repetition of mistakes from other projects.
 c) There were frustrating delays in obtaining some “no objections” where there was no obvious
    reason for any delay.
 d) The Bank could have shown more flexibility in dealing with the changes proposed in
    Weifang, leading to a lost opportunity to fully utilize the loan.

Bank Comments: The problems with a few indicators lacking of adequate explanation of the
basis for design and the method of measurement of the targets make it difficult to monitor the
progress of the project; these should have been addressed during restructuring. The on-lending
requirements have been dropped from recent project based on the lessons learned from this and
other projects. The Bank team will continue to strive and seek ways to improve its efficiency,
although in some cases the delays were the result of issues with format and procedures that were
not followed. Finally, the Bank team tried very hard to find ways to use the loan savings as a
result of changes proposed in Weifeng, unfortunately no agreement could be reached between
different government levels about the use of these funds.

(b) Cofinanciers:      Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders. A summary of the Borrower’s ICR is provided in
Annex 5, and the full report is available in the project files.




                                                15
                      Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


 SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT - P077752
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                 Percentage of
           Components                               Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                     Appraisal
                                                       millions)
A. Wastewater Management
1. Gaomi wastewater                       8.62              7.13        82.7
2. Huantai wastewater                    13.89              0.00        0.0
3. Qixia wastewater & associated
                                          9.13             10.36        113.5
river improvements
4. Weifeng wastewater &
                                         66.71             67.98        102.1
associated river improvements
5. Weihai wastewater                     15.69             17.62        112.3
6. Yantai wastewater and GEF
                                         23.75             29.92        126.0
septic tank management
7. Zaozhuang wastewater &
                                         44.69             28.15        63.0
associated river improvements
8. Zhoucun wastewater &
                                          0.00             26.18        100.0
associated river improvements
Subtotal Wastewater
                                        182.38           187.33         102.7
Management
B. Solid Waste Management
1. Heze solid waste                      13.31             18.10        136.0
2. Rizhao solid waste                     7.95             11.15        140.3
Subtotal Solid Waste
                                         21.26             29.25        137.6
Management
C. Water Supply
1. Gaomi water supply                    14.90             20.40        136.9
2. Huantai water supply                  15.49              0.00         0.0
Subtotal Water Supply                    30.39             20.40         67.1
D. TA & Capacity Building
TA & Capacity Building                    4.52              2.57        56.9
Subtotal TA & Capacity Building           4.52              2.57        56.9
             Total Baseline Cost      238.55
Physical Contingencies                   17.18
Price Contingencies                      14.60
           Total Project Costs        270.33             239.55         88.6
PPF                                     7.32
Front-end fee IBRD                      3.46
     Total Financing Required         281.11


                                         16
 CN-GEF-Second Shandong Environment Project - P090377
                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                         Percentage of
                 Components                 Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                          Appraisal
                                               millions)     millions)
1. Establishment of Septic Tank Institution           0.52          3.49     232.0
2. Provision of Facilities and Equipment              2.07          2.66     129.0
3. Project Operations                                 0.82          0.89     109.0
4. Joint Sewage-Septage Treatment in Xianhe           0.04          *
5. Consulting Services                                0.98
6. Project Management, Monitoring,                                  1.20      39.0
                                                      0.77
Evaluation
7. Dissemination and promotion                        0.20          0.25     125.0
Total Pilot Project Costs                             5.40          8.49       157.0
*Included in Item 1

(b) Financing
 P077752 - SECOND SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                              Type of   Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                             Financing   (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                        millions)   millions)
 Borrower                   Counterpart   134.11      105.55       78.7
 International Bank for Reconstruction                      147.00       134.69            91.1
                                        Loan
and Development
 P090377 - CN-GEF-Second Shandong Environment Project
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Financing         (USD         (USD         Appraisal
                                                         millions)      millions)
 Borrower                               Counterpart          91.78*       NA
 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT -
                                        Loan                109.72*       NA
Associated IBRD Fund
 Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant                      5.00          8.49        157%
*The basis of this allocation could not be found in project documents, Therefore the actual costs
are not available (NA)




                                               17
                        Annex 2. Project Outputs by Component

The detailed description of the original project components is available in the PAD. The tables
below illustrate outputs by component, as originally planned and at the end of the project. Almost
all planned outputs have been achieved satisfactorily.

Wastewater and River Embankment Improvements. The works shown below were essential
in meeting the PDO of improving environmental conditions in the participating cities/counties.
These works lead to achievement of the outcome indicators on volume of wastewater treated, rate
of wastewater treated, and reduction of pollution load reaching the recipient rivers, per the
Datasheet and Section 3.2 above.

      Wastewater Component, and Associated River and Embankment Improvements
City                     Output Description            at Appraisal Actual Completed
           Collection sewers (400mm-1000mm)           63.6 km
           Interceptor sewers (1200mm-1650mm)         8.4 km        72 km
Gaomi      Sewage pumping stations (1 #)              20,000 m3/d   Completed

Huantai       Collection sewers (300mm-1200mm)                  79.2 km          Deleted
              Wastewater treatment plant (I #)                  70,000 m3/d
Zhoucun       Collection sewers                                 --               131.0 km
(Substitute   Interceptor sewers                                --
For           River embankment improvements                     --               23.2 km
Huantai)
Qixia         Primary, secondary and trunk collectors           60 km            22.8 km
              (300mm-800mm).
              River bed and embankment improvements             4.9km            4.9 km
              Wastewater treatment plant                        20,000 m3/d      Completed
              Relocation of a 400,000m3 open dumping area.      400,000 m3       730,000 m3
              Interceptors along both banks of Bailang River    2 x 16.0 km      29.5km
Weifeng       (1.65m x 1.5m to 3.2m x 2.9m)
              Pre-treatment of intercepted flow in oxidation    360,000 m3       Deleted
              ponds (constructed wetlands)
              River bed and embankment improvements             2 x 16.0 km      Completed as
                                                                                 planned
              Extension of sewers (300mm to 1400mm).            62.9 km          55.4 km
Weihai        Transmission from PS to WWTP (1000mm)             1.65 km
              Treated effluent rising main (1400mm)             7.0 km           7.2 km
              Xin’anhe Wastewater treatment plant               80,000 m3/d      80,000 m3/d
Yantai        Interceptor sewers (400mm-1200mm).                14.1 km          15.7 km
              Extension of sea outfall (1500mm)                 3.2 km           3.13 km
              Treated effluent supply pipe (300 mm)             1.0 km           Completed
              Interceptor and combined sewers (600mm-           13.2 km          13.2 km
              1500mm) along Dongsha River
              Trunk mains and sanitary sewers (300mm to         27.6 km          21.2 km
              1400mm) along Xisha River
Zaozhuang     Treated water re-use supply pipelines for         16.4 km          4.9 km
              Dongsha and Xisha Rivers (350mm and                                (Dongsha deleted)
              500mm)
              Xisha River rehabilitation including 5# bridges   10.3 km          8.8 km

                                               18
            and landscaping.
            Dongsha River rehabilitation including 7#          4.9 km           4.9 km
            bridges and landscaping.
GEF Pilot   (i) Septic tanks in pilot area (Number).           1,700            1,056
Septic Tank (ii) Septage collection per year (million
Manageme m3/year)                                              150,000          100,020
nt          (iii) Joint treatment of septage and wastewater
Yantai      (million m3/year)                                  150,000          100,020
            (iv) Septage collection tankers (Number)           10               10
            (v) Septage mixing facility (m3/day)               7,500            1,080
            (vi) GIS-based database                            None             Completed

Water Supply. The water related works improved the quantity and quality of the water supply in
Gaomi where citizens had been using groundwater with fluoride to supplement the municipal
drinking water supply. These people, some 730,000, now have safe water and their satisfaction
rate in a recent survey was 100%.

                                  Water Supply Component
    City                   Output Description           at Appraisal         Actual Completed
               New Kanjia waterworks                    30,000 m3/d          Completed
               Raw water transmission main (1000mm)     9.8 km               Completed
               Treated water transmission main (1000mm 20.8 km               20.0 km
               and 800mm)
               Distribution network (125mm -800mm)      93.0 km              403 km
Gaomi          Expansion of Nanhu water works capacity. 30,000 m3/d          Completed
                                                        to 45,000
                                                        m3/d
               Expansion of Beihu water works capacity  15,000 m3/d          Completed
                                                        to 30,000
                                                        m3/d
               Upgrade water supply system, central                          Completed
               control room, control of NRW
               New waterworks                           100,000 m3/d
               Raw water transmission main (1100mm)     14.9 km              Huantai deleted
Huantai        Distribution network (100mm - 1100mm)    46.3 km              from project
               Upgrade water supply system, central
               control room.

Solid Waste. This component was delivered as designed and has contributed to improved
environmental conditions by collecting and transporting municipal waste from the city centers
and depositing it in a sanitary landfill in the case of Heze. Municipal solid waste collected and
transferred to a sanitary landfill reached 351,660 tons/year by the end of the project.

                             Solid Waste Management Component
    City                   Output Description                 at Appraisal   Actual Completed
               Waste processing and recycling plant.          660 tons/d     Completed
Heze           New sanitary landfill (280 tons/d with a 20    2.38 million   Completed
               year life).                                    m3
               Composting plant                               304 tons/d     Completed
               Phase II of sanitary landfill with capacity of 3.24 million   Completed

                                               19
              500 tons/d with an 18 year life.                m3
              Procurement of vehicles and equipment                        Completed
              (Construction of 20 waste collection
Rizhao        stations with capacity of 8 tons per station;
              20 five-ton waste transport vehicles, 10
              street cleaning vehicles, 10 street washing
              vehicles, 10 five-ton construction
              demolition transport vehicles.)
              Procurement of vehicles and equipment                        Completed
              (3 excavators, waste compactor, 2 earth
              movers, various loaders, 3 five-ton tip
              trucks, pesticide application vehicle, five-
              ton fuel truck, various vehicles, etc.)

Institutional Development and Capacity Building. Outputs of the component are described
below.
   (a) Construction Management and Business Development: Comprehensive project
       management services and implementation monitoring institutional and financial
       operational improvements to improve business development to water supply, wastewater
       and solid waste companies, and the SPPMO. All project companies (i) enhanced their
       financial management capacity through preparation of annual financial statements with
       projections; (ii) have well-funded O&M plans that are implemented on time; (iii)
       prepared and implemented training plans; (iv) are on a solid financial footing, even
       though there is an over-reliance on government subsidies. No progress was achieved on
       development of management succession plans and business plans, as they are irrelevant,
       being state-owned companies where management changes are the responsibility of the
       government human resources departments.

   (b) Solid Waste Sector Study for reform of technical, regulatory and management policies
       and programs, improve efforts in the 3Rs, and establish effective tariff, fee or charge
       structures and collection systems;

   (c) Capacity Strengthening of SPFB through improvement of debt management at the
       municipal and provincial levels

   (d) Capacity Strengthening of Provincial EPB through design and implementation of
       management information systems, including equipment, to strengthen its capacity for
       pollution control including industrial pollution at source.

   (e) Capacity Enhancement of Decision-makers and Project Owners through training and
       study tours for decision-makers.




                                               20
                                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.    Economic Analysis

At appraisal, cost benefit analysis, including net present value and economic rate of return were calculated
to demonstrate the economic justification of each component. The selection of priority interventions for
the project was guided by cost effectiveness analysis using least cost methodology. Alternative project
designs were identified and evaluated in order to select the least cost solutions. The economic costs of
components were determined by making adjustments to the component’s financial costs.

1.1 Economic Development of the Project Cities/Counties

The economies of project cities/counties have grown significantly since project appraisal, and the project
has definitely contributed to the governments’ development objectives of continued sustainable economic
growth. Economic output in the project cities has increased from RMB 637 billion in 2005 to RMB 1,993
billion in 2012, an increase averaging 17.7% per annum. The increase in economic output during the
period of project implementation is illustrated in the table below.

                         Table 1.1 Economic Development of Project Cities/Counties

Municipality                GDP 2005                         GDP 2012                       Increase
                                  Per capita                       Per capita                    Per Capita
                   Million RMB           RMB        Million RMB            RMB            %           %
          Heze        36,500            4,144          178,700           19,319          390%        366%
        Rizhao        38,700           13,723          135,237           46,941          249%        242%
       Weifang       124,600           14,647          389,782           45,820          213%        213%
        Weihai       100,881           40,614          233,000           91,888          131%        126%
         Yantai      163,000           25,200          528,128           87,252          224%        246%
     Zaozhuang        50,331           13,786          143,121           39,202          184%        184%
          Zibo       123,100           29,686          385,090           92,866          213%        213%
Notes: 2012 GDP figures for Zibo and Weifang were not provided and averages of other cities’ growth
rates are used in order to provide an overall project summary.

1.2 Cost Benefit Analysis: Apart from the overall high growth in GDP and the increased economic
benefits achieved, the project has seen changes to the individual components during implementation
which, overall, have had an impact on their economic return, including change of scope, changes in
capital expenditures, and changes in cost of O&M of components. The analysis at appraisal found that the
economic return of individual components was very sensitive to changes in the project costs.

To assess the overall end-of-project economic return of the project, a review of individual project
components was carried out. The review was done using an incremental approach, where the effects from
project changes to the economic return were analyzed, to establish an overview of the development in
economic return during implementation and operation.

1.2.1 Wastewater Management and River Improvement Component. The main economic benefits,
identified at appraisal, for the wastewater and river improvement component included: (i) reduction of
pollution load to the environment, (ii) land value appreciation, and (iii) reduced cost of damages from
floods. The significant economic development in the project cities/counties since project start has
undoubtedly had a positive, rather than negative impact on the economic benefits identified. It was



                                                            21
estimated that the benefits are at least at the same level at the end as at entry for subcomponents where the
scope remained unchanged.

 The main drivers of economic costs of the individual wastewater and river improvement components
include: the capital expenditures; and the cost of operation and maintenance. Calculation of the changes in
capital expenditures since appraisal was based on actual financial results. Calculation of changes in costs
of operation and maintenance were based on estimates.

The impact on the economic return from changes in economic benefits and costs was roughly estimated.
The review of the economic return is shown in Table 1.2.

        Table1.2. Cost Benefit Evaluation – Wastewater and River Improvement Component

Component EIRR               Main assumptions for the Cost Benefit Analysis              Conclusion on the
          at entry                                                                       Cost Benefit4
                     Benefit Drivers                             Cost Drivers
                                                                         Costs of
                                                         Capital Costs O&M
Gaomi       18.0% The economic benefits derives from: Appraisal:         Appraisal:      As the scope has
                                                         RMB71 million RMB7.4            remained unchanged
                  a. Reduction of pollution – quantified
                                                                         million /year   during implementation
                  based on survey                        Implementation:
                                                                                         and the capital costs and
                                                         RMB54 million Operation1:
                  b. Additional benefits from treatment                                  costs of operations and
                                                                         RMB5.7
                                                                                         maintenance has been
                  The project component’s scope has                      million /year
                                                                                         reduced, the economic
                  remained unchanged during                                              return of the component
                  implementation and all targets set at                                  is estimated to reach a
                  appraisal were achieved
                                                                                         level not less than the
                                                                                         level expected at
                                                                                         appraisal.




                                                     22
Huantai      19.2% The component was not implemented Appraisal:             Appraisal: NA
                                                     RMB114                 RMB15.4
                                                     million                million/year
Qixia        14.5% The economic benefits derives from:   Appraisal:      Appraisal:       The slightly higher
                                                         RMB75 million RMB4.5             capital expenditures and
                    a. Improved flood control – reducing
                                                                         million /year    cost of operation and
                    damages from flooding.               Implementation:
                                                                                          maintenance will solely
                                                         RMB79 million Operation1:
                    b. Benefits from improved                                             have marginal effect
                                                                         RMB4.8
                    wastewater treatment.                                                 (app. 1%) on the
                                                                         million /year
                                                                                          economic return and
                    The project’s scope has remained
                                                                                          thereby still be above a
                    unchanged and targets are expected                                    reasonable hurdle rate.
                    to be reached when the treatment
                    plant will commence operation by
                    mid-2014.
Weifang      12.7% The economic benefits derives from:   Appraisal:         Appraisal: Due to the deleted
                                                         RMB547             RMB7.2        subcomponent together
                    a. Improved flood control – reducing
                                                         million            million /year with the slightly lower
                    damages from flooding.
                                                                                          capital costs and costs
                                                         Implementation:    Operation1:
                    b. Benefits from relocation of an                                     of operation and
                                                         RMB519             RMB6.8
                    open dumping area reducing                                            maintenance, the
                                                         million            million /year
                    pollution to the surroundings                                         economic return of the
                                                                                          component will fall to
                    The project’s scope was changed
                                                                                          just below 12%.
                    marginally by not implementing
                                                                                          However, benefits from
                    oxidation ponds for pretreatment of                                   land value appreciation
                    wastewater. The overall value of the                                  have not been taken into
                    deleted subcomponent accounted for
                                                                                          account leaving the
                    less than 15% of the total quantifiable
                                                                                          economic value on the
                    benefits.
                                                                                          safe side of a reasonable
                                                                                          hurdle rate.
Weihai       16.8% The economic benefits derives from:        Appraisal:    Appraisal: The slightly higher
                                                              RMB129        RMB57.1      capital expenditures and
                    a. Improved wastewater treatment.
                                                              million       million/year cost of operation and
                    b. Reduced damages from occasional                                   maintenance will solely
                                                            Implementation: Operation2:
                    incidents of blocked sewage pipes.                                   have marginal effect
                                                            RMB134          RMB57.1
                                                                                         (less than 1%) on the
                    c. Land value appreciation from         million         million/year economic return. The
                    relocation of existing treatment plant.                              return will thereby still
                    The project’s scope remained                                         be above a reasonable
                    unchanged and targets set at appraisal                               hurdle rate.
                    were achieved.
Yantai       15.8% The economic benefits derives from:        Appraisal: Appraisal: The higher capital
(with GEF)                                                    RMB195     RMB17.0      expenditures and cost of
                    a. Improved wastewater treatment
                                                              million    million/year operation and
                    through reduced septic tank
                                                                                      maintenance will have a
                    overflows.                           Implementation: Operation3:
                                                                                      marginal effect on the
                                                         RMB228          RMB19.9
                    b. Reduced pollution discharges to                                economic return of app.
                                                         million         million/year
                    the Bohai Sea                                                     3-4%. The return will
                                                                                      thereby still be above a
                    The project’s scope largely remained
                                                                                      reasonable hurdle rate.
                    unchanged and targets were
                    achieved.



                                                        23
Zaozhuang      15.0% The economic benefits derives from:    Appraisal:               Appraisal: The marginally lower
                                                            RMB366                   RMB3.0        benefits from the
                       a. Improved flood control – reducing
                                                            million                  million /year deleted subcomponent
                       damages from flooding.
                                                                                                   together with the
                                                            Implementation:          Operation1:
                       b. Improved wastewater treatment.                                           substantial lower capital
                                                            RMB214                   RMB1.8
                                                                                                   costs and costs of
                       b. Reuse of water.                   million                  million /year
                                                                                                   operation and
                       The project’s scope was marginally                                          maintenance will
                       changed by dropping one of two                                              increase the economic
                       water reuse subcomponents. It is                                            return significantly.
                       estimated that the deleted
                       subcomponent accounts for less than
                       10% of the total benefits.
Zhoucun           -    New component, substituted for              NA                NA             NA
                       Huantai
1) Cost of operation and maintenance has been estimated based on the actual capital financial expenditures.
2) It has not been possible to estimate changes to the cost of operation and maintenance, and the costs has been set to the same
level as at project entry.
3) Cost of operation and maintenance has been estimated based on the reduced capital expenditures. The GEF component
accounts only for a small part of the cost of operation and maintenance.
4) The impact on the ERR has been roughly estimated – the actual series of costs and benefits for an ERR calculation were not
established.

1.2.2 Water Supply Component. The economic benefits identified for the water supply components at
appraisal included: (i) safe water supply benefits; (ii)human health benefits; and (iii) Benefits from
improved environment.

The main drivers of the economic costs include: the capital expenditures; and the costs of O&M. The
changes to capital expenditures since appraisal were based on actual financial results. Calculation of
changes in cost of O&M was based on actual costs from the Water Company.

The impact on the economic return from changes in economic benefits and costs was roughly estimated.
The review of the economic return is shown in Table 1.3.

                  Table 1.3. Cost Benefit Evaluation – Water Supply Components
Component EIRR                    Main assumptions for the Cost Benefit Analysis                     Conclusion on the
            at                                                                                       Cost Benefit2)
          entry
                       Benefit Drivers                             Cost Drivers
                                                                           Costs of
                                                          Capital Costs    O&M
Gaomi          20.2% The economic benefits derives from: Appraisal:        Appraisal:   The higher capital
                                                          RMB122           RMB22.2      expenditures and cost
                     a. Water supply benefits based on
                                                          million          million/year of operation and
                     willingness-to-pay.
                                                                                        maintenance will alone
                                                          Implementation: Operation1:
                     b. Additional human health benefits.                               have an effect on the
                                                          RMB155           RMB28.8
                                                                                        economic return of app.
                     The project’s scope was expanded     million          million/year
                                                                                        8-10%. Due to the high
                     by increasing the length of the
                                                                                        ERR in the base case
                     distribution network significantly.
                                                                                        the economic return
                     An increase in the economic benefit                                from implementing the
                     is expected by connecting additional                               component still reach a
                     households for provision of safe
                                                                                        level above a
                     water to 840,000 people, who were
                                                                                        reasonably hurdle rate.

                                                              24
                       using ground water with high                                               Increase in benefits
                       fluoride levels.                                                           from connecting
                                                                                                  additional households
                                                                                                  has not been taken into
                                                                                                  account.
Huantai       19.2% The component was deleted from the Appraisal:                 Appraisal:      NA
                    project                            RMB114                     RMB 15.4
                                                       million                    million
1) Cost of operation and maintenance is actual number for Gaomi Water Company 2012.
2) The impact on the ERR has been roughly estimated – the actual series of costs and benefits for an ERR calculation has not
been established.

1.2.3 Solid Waste Component. The economic benefits identified at appraisal included: (i) direct
economic benefits from treatment of the solid waste; (ii) land value benefits; and (iii) financial benefits
from sales of gas from the landfill.

The main drivers of the economic costs of the solid waste components include: the capital expenditures;
and the cost of operation and maintenance. Calculation of the changes in capital expenditures since
appraisal was based on actual financial results. Calculation of changes in costs of O&M was based on
estimates.

The impact on the economic return from changes in economic benefits and costs was roughly estimated.
The review of the economic return is shown in Table 1.4.




                                                            25
                    Table 3. Cost Benefit Evaluation – Solid Waste Components
Component EIRR                    Main assumptions for the Cost Benefit Analysis                      Conclusion on the
            at                                                                                        Cost Benefit2
          entry

                        Benefit Drivers                           Cost Drivers
                                                                          Costs of
                                                          Capital Costs   O&M
Heze           15.1% The economic benefits derives from: Appraisal:       Appraisal: The higher capital
                                                          RMB109          RMB9.4       expenditures will
                     a. Solid waste treatment including
                                                          million         million/year reduce the level of
                     waste minimization, waste recycling,
                                                                                       economic return by
                     and sanitary disposal.               Implementation: Operation1:
                                                                                       app. 3%. This will
                                                          RMB138          RMB9.4
                     b. Land value appreciation from                                   reduce the return from
                                                          million         million/year
                     relocation of existing dump site.                                 implementing the
                                                                                       component to just
                     The project’s scope remained
                                                                                       above a reasonable
                     unchanged and targets were
                                                                                       hurdle rate. Increase in
                     achieved.                                                         benefits due to rapid
                                                                                       urban development
                                                                                       since appraisal has not
                                                                                       been taken into
                                                                                       account.
Rizhao         18.6% The economic benefits derives from:     Appraisal:      Appraisal:               The higher capital
                                                             RMB65 million RMB29.8                    expenditures will
                        a. Solid waste treatment including
                                                                             million/year             reduce the level of
                        waste minimization, waste recycling, Implementation:
                                                                                                      economic return by
                        and sanitary disposal.               RMB85 million Operation1:
                                                                                                      app. 4%. This will
                                                                             RMB29.8
                        b. Land value appreciation from                                               reduce the return from
                                                                             million/year
                        relocation of existing sites.                                                 implementing the
                                                                                                      component to just
                        c. Sales of methane gas from the                                              above a reasonable
                        landfill site.
                                                                                                      hurdle rate. Increase in
                        The project’s scope has been                                                  benefits due to rapid
                        unchanged and targets were                                                    urban development
                        achieved.                                                                     since appraisal has not
                                                                                                      been taken into
                                                                                                      account.
1) Cost of operation and maintenance has for the estimation been kept at the same level as appraisal. A larger part of the cost of
operation and maintenance are variable costs – labor, chemicals, electricity and petrol – which are not affected by increases in
capital expenditures.
2) The impact on the ERR has been roughly estimated – the actual serious of costs and benefits for an ERR calculation has not
been established.




                                                               26
2. Financial Analysis. An end-of-project financial analysis was conducted to: review the financial
performance of revenue generating companies as covenanted in the legal agreements; tariff development
and affordability of households; and affordability of participating municipalities.

2.1 Utility Tariff Analysis

Compared to the overall rapid economic development since 2005, utility tariffs were revised at a slow
pace. The highest increase in water supply tariff occurred in Gaomi, where the water tariff increased 40%
since 2005. For wastewater tariffs, Qixia has implemented a wastewater tariff which was able to recover
full costs. Yet the wastewater tariff in Yantai remained unchanged since 2005. As a result of the slow
pace in revising utility tariffs, none of the tariffs levels projected at appraisal was achieved. Given the
increased costs resulting from the project and the overall price increases, there will be a continuing
reliance on government support in the foreseeable future. Table 2.1 presents the average tariff
comparisons for water, wastewater and solid waste. The financial position of each project company is
further discussed in Section 2.2.

Table 2.1: Average Tariff Comparisons for Water, Wastewater and Solid Waste
City                                    2005           2011                  2012                                         2013
                                        Actual     proj.2 actual     f.c.r.3                                  actual      Actual
Gaomi Water Supply (RMB/m3)1             1.40     2.80       1.97     2.35                                    1.97          1.97
Gaomi Wastewater (RMB/m3)                0.80     1.40       0.90       n/a                                   0.90          0.90
                                                                          3)
Heze Solid Waste (RMB/hh./mth)           1.00     none       1.00                                             1.00          1.00
                          3 4
Qixia Wastewater (RMB/m )               None      1.20           -    0.97                                    1.08          1.08
                                                                          3)
Rizhao Solid Waste (RMB/hh/mnth)         3.00     none       3.00                                             3.00          3.00
Weihai Wastewater (RMB/m3)5              0.83     1.35          4)
                                                                      1.98                                        4)
                                                                                                                            0.99
                           3 6
Yantai Wastewater (RMB/m )               0.82     1.15      ~ 0.8          -                                  ~ 0.8        ~ 0.8
 1
     Base documents state 2005 actual to RMB 1.4/m3, as indicated. PAD indicates a level of 2.8.
 2
     Projected at the time of appraisal.
 3
     Full cost recovery (f.c.r.) comparison is based on latest financial results FY2012. For Heze and Rizhao f.c.r. 2012 are
     forecasted in the solid waste tariff reviews undertaken in 2010.
 4
     No wastewater tariff was levied in the Qixia EDZ area in 2005. The f.c.r. tariff is the computed tariff needed for 2014 based
     on estimates of income and expenditure provided by the Qixia PIU.
 5
     The average wastewater tariff in Weihai has declined slightly due to domestic sales rising more rapidly than income from
     other customer segments (government, industrial and commercial).
 6
     In Yantai no information is available to compute the average tariff, but there has been no increase in the tariff scale since
     2005. Equally it is not possible to compute the f.c.r. tariff based on the information available.

2.2 Affordability of Water and Wastewater Tariffs

Affordability of the public utility services, analyzed at project appraisal, concluded that the projected
tariffs were fully affordable to all households. Specifically, the analysis confirmed full affordability by
low-income households of projected water and wastewater tariffs, which covered on average 4.1% and
5.2% of the monthly income, which is an acceptable benchmark for affordability analysis.

Review of improvement in affordability during the period of implementation was conducted by
comparing tariff increases to income growth, where GDP per capita growth was been used as a proxy for
income growth (see Table 2.2 below). The high growth of GDP per capita compared to the increase in
tariffs indicates that affordability of utility service tariffs has improved during the project period. It was
noted that tariff increases were mostly related to water supply rather than the wastewater service.
Affordability of the municipal solid waste service was not analyzed at appraisal.


                                                                27
Table 2.2: Comparison of Tariff Increases with GDP Growth
City                  2005                         2013                      Tariff       GDP
                  domestic tariffs             domestic tariffs                         per capita
  RMB/m3     WS       WW         Total    WS       WW         total         Increase     Growth
Gaomi         1.4      0.7         2.1     1.9      0.9         2.8            47%        236%
Qixia           -         -          -     n/a      0.7           -               -       116%
Weifang       1.4      0.9         2.3     n/a      n/a           -               -       213%
Weihai        1.7      0.7         2.4     n/a      0.8           -               -       126%
Yantai        1.5      0.7         2.2     2.0      0.9         2.9            32%        246%
Zaozhuang     1.0      0.7         1.7     1.5      0.8         2.3            35%        213%

1
    The wastewater tariff in Qixia EDZ (the area served by the new SDEPII treatment plant),
    although approved by Qixia government has not yet been implemented by the
    Administration Committee of Qixia EDZ.

2.3 Financial Analysis of Project Companies

Project companies prepared annual financial forecasts during project implementation as required under
the terms in the Project Agreement. One of the purposes of the financial forecasts was to review
compliance with the covenanted key indicators, i.e., cost recovery ratio of 1.0; and debt service ratio of
1.3 before the company can incur any additional debt.

2.3.1 Financial Performance of Wastewater and Solid Waste Companies

The financial performance of wastewater and solid waste companies was in compliance with the financial
covenant of cost recovery ratio, as defined in their subsidiary agreements. This was made possible through
a provision in the legal arrangements that defined net revenues to include both operating revenue and non-
operating income, and as such, included government subsidies. As the companies avoided taking on any
additional debt, the debt-service-ratio covenant did not apply.

Wastewater and solid waste services provided by project companies were financed partially through the
government budgetary system, rather than on a fully commercial basis. Thus, wastewater and solid waste
companies did not rely on an independent revenue stream to provide services. Wastewater tariffs collected
via water supply companies were initially remitted to the Government and then released to the companies
based on their financial needs. The Government assumed the responsibility for providing wastewater and
solid waste companies sufficient funds to cover their expenses for operation, debt service and other costs.
However, as the companies are supported on a net basis, they do not accumulate cash over time. As the
companies’ expenses during implementation and operation were fully provided for by government
subsidies, the cost-recovery-ratio is technically pre-set at 1, as the subsidies do not include an element
allowing the company to generate cash in excess of annual needs. Financial support from the government
was not solely provided as revenue to the companies, but also as additional capital. Due to the different
ways of providing the subsidy, the support was not fully reflected in the companies’ income statement.
Apart from the support for operating expenses and debt service, governments also provided wastewater
and solid waste companies funds for ongoing capital expenditures, such as for expanding the networks to
new areas as a result of urban expansion, etc.

The above described government support was particularly appropriate for the new wastewater and solid
waste companies, as the sectors were still under development, and full cost recovery tariffs in these two
sectors would not be realistic or feasible. The tendency in recent Bank-funded wastewater and solid waste


                                                   28
projects in China has been to allow retention of the debt for wastewater and solid waste investments on
government books, rather than being on-lent to the individual companies.

2.3.2. Financial Performance of the Project’s Water Supply Company

Water supply operations of GWSC were fully commercialized, except for government-supported rural
water supply programs. GWC made efficiency gains by reducing staff from about 380 to about 300 during
the project. It also increased its annual water revenue from RMB 31 million/year to RMB 44 million/year
in 2013. It was able to recover full costs from revenue generated, and is on a solid foundation, with equity
to total balance at a robust 51%. GWC received budgetary allocations to finance its wastewater operations
and the investment program.

Water supply operations of GWSC were in compliance with the cost recovery covenant until 2011. The
company failed to comply with the cost recovery covenant in 2012 and 2013 as depreciation exceeded
provision for debt service. Taking into account that the subsidies to the Company’s wastewater operations
do not allow the company to generate cash in excess of annual needs, the Company was in compliance
with the covenant in 2012 and 2013, and has been able to meet their cash outgoings. The company will be
in full compliance with the covenant again in 2014 with a smaller revision of the water tariff. The debt-
service-coverage ratio requirements did not apply, as the company did not incur any additional debt. The
Company was also required to generate sufficient revenues to cover any increase in working capital
requirement and 20% of its three year rolling capital investment needs. The water supply operation was
not able to meet this requirement, but will do so with the expected increase in tariffs. Financial forecasts
are provided below.

2.3.3 Financial Forecasts of Project Companies

The requirement of financial forecasts applied only to Gaomi Water Supply Operations, Weihai, Yantai
and Qixia Wastewater Companies, and with the Rizhao Solid Waste Company.

GWSC was the designated project company for the construction of the new water supply and wastewater
facilities in Gaomi city. GWSC was financed through four main funding channels: water supply charges,
which the Company collected and retained; Gaomi Government budget allocation for wastewater
operations; company borrowing including the World Bank loan; government counterpart funding as a
contribution to the project and other government sponsored investment projects e.g. rural water supplies.

Table 2.4 below provides a medium term forecast of the performance of the water supply operations of
GWSC based on the assumption that the current average tariff increases by 20% in 2014 to a level of
RMB 2.35/m3.

Table 2.4: Financial Projections for the Water Supply Operations of GWSC
RMB’000                                   2011      2012        2013      2014       2015
                                          base    base year   forecast   forecast   forecast
                                          year

  Water Supply Revenue                   42,836    44,088      44,352     52,983     53,022
  Operating support                           0     3,074           0          0          0
  Other revenue                          10,115     6,183       6,199      6,416      6,640
Total Revenues                           52,951    53,345      50,551     59,398     59,662

  Personnel                               7,123     5,925       6,000      6,060      6,121
  Electricity Expense                     5,350     4,865       4,870      5,078      4,948
  Chemical                                  850     1,253       1,255      1,300      1,346


                                                    29
  Sales Expenses                                       10,348        10,683       10,718        10,821     10,927
  Administrative Expenses                              11,496        11,789       10,790        11,004     11,224
  Other Expenses                                       12,055        17,288       17,210        17,613     17,896
Expenses                                               47,222        51,802       50,843        51,875     52,462

EBITDA                                                  5,728         1,543          -292         7,523     7,201
   Depreciation                                         4,857         4,491         4,491         4,073     4,073
EBIT                                                      871        -2,948        -4,782         3,450     3,127
  Net interest payments                                   674          -335             0         1,342     1,695
EBT                                                       197        -2,613        -4,782         2,108     1,433
  Income Tax                                               78             0             0           527       358
Earnings after Tax                                        119        -2,613        -4,782         1,581     1,074

Cost Recovery Ratio                                      1.02          0.92          0.90          1.02      1.01
Debt Service Coverage Ratio1                             1.21          0.26         -0.05          0.94      0.81
Additional requirement2                                -1,021        -4,847        -5,735         1,385      432
1) The covenant did not apply as the water operation did not incur any additional debt
2) Surplus/Shortfall in meeting the additional requirement on coverage of 20% of Capital Investments

The Yantai Xi Anhe Wastewater Company (YWC) was the designated project company for the
construction and operation of the wastewater facilities implemented in Yantai city under the project. The
company was established in 2006, consolidating treatment facilities, trunk sewers and pumping stations,
while government retained control of secondary and tertiary networks. YWC is currently financed through
the Yantai Government budgetary procedures. The company has no independent sources of revenue as
the wastewater tariff in Yantai is a government fee under the overall administration of the Finance
Bureau. YWC prepares an annual budget which, once approved, forms the basis of monthly budgetary
allocations made to the Company. There is no relationship between wastewater fees collected from users
in the Company’s service area and the revenue received by YWSC from Yantai Government. The equity
to total balance of YWWC is at a low level of 9%, indicating that the Company is fully funded by
Government contributions. Yantai Municipal Government pursued private sector participation in the
wastewater sector through a number of BOT contracts for the wastewater treatment.

Table 2.5 below provides a forecast of the performance of YWC based on what is considered to be a
realistic service fee having regard to current wastewater tariff levels and the requirements of the project’s
covenants. The projections indicate that a service fee of RMB 1.0/m3 for wastewater treated would allow
the Company to cover their full costs.

Table 2.5: Financial Projections ofYantai Xin’anhe Wastewater Treatment Company
RMB’000                                                2011          2012           2013          2014       2015
                                                     base year     base year      forecast      forecast   forecast

  Wastewater revenue1                                       0             0             0        41,060     43,800
  Operating support                                    28,742        26,209        28,518             0          0
Total Revenues                                         28,742        26,209        28,518        41,060     43,800

 Personnel                                              7,074         6,939         7,364         7,564      7,828
 Electricity Expense                                   11,683        12,001        11,916        11,868     13,641
 Materials (Chemical and Water)                         3,018         3,161         3,212         3,437      3,557
 Maintenance                                            1,521         1,135           946         4,098      2,833
 Sludge                                                 1,297           966         1,739         2,010      2,026
 Other Expenses                                         1,144         1,589         1,444         1,510      1,484
Operating Expenses                                     25,736        25,791        26,621        30,487     31,369

EBITDA                                                   3,006           418         1,897       10,573     12,431
  Depreciation                                           6,241           975           967        8,472      8,472
EBIT                                                    -3,235          -557           930        2,100      3,959


                                                                     30
  Net interest payments                                    0             0           0        610        577
EBT                                                   -3,235          -557         930      1,491      3,382
  Income Tax                                               0             0           0          0          0
Earnings after Tax                                    -3,235          -557         930      1,491      3,382

Service Price (RMB/m3)2                                 0.72           0.74       0.80       0.85       0.82
Full Cost Price (RMB/m3)3                               0.91           0.75       0.80       1.00       0.95
1) Assumed revenue from wastewater fees
2) Service price required to meet cash outgoings
3) Service price required for full cost recovery


The Weihai Water Group Company (WWGC) only operates the network, while treatment is
outsourced based on a BOT agreement. WWGC is financed by a government budgetary and fees paid to
the various BOT contractors are not recorded in WWGCs accounts. Weihai government only subsidizes
cash outgoings and excludes any provision for asset depreciation. Table 2.6 below provides a forecast of
the financial performance of the Wastewater Sector in Weihai based on the current wastewater tariff.

Table 2.6: Projected Financial Performance of the Wastewater Sector in Weihai
RMB’000                                               2011           2012        2013       2014       2015
                                                    base year      base year   forecast   forecast   forecast

  Wastewater revenue in Weihai1                       49,799        52,787      55,612     57,520     57,825
  Other income                                             0             0           0          0          0
Total Revenues                                        49,799        52,787      55,612     57,520     57,825

Sewers and Pump Station
  Personnel                                            7,860         9,001      11,384     11,726     12,077
  Electricity Expense                                 12,065        13,862      13,800     13,938     14,008
  Maintenance                                          6,155         6,501       7,741      7,973      8,212
  Other Expenses                                       8,479         8,353       7,830      8,065      8,307
Outsource Expenses
  Sludge Disposal                                        210           214         214        214        214
  WWTP BOT Fee                                        52,118        57,287      73,102     76,091     79,080
Other expenses                                         5,073         5,225       5,382      5,543      5,710
Total operating Expenses                              91,961       100,442     119,453    123,550    127,608

EBITDA                                               -42,161       -47,655     -63,840    -66,030    -69,783
   Depreciation                                          383        11,892      17,219     19,089     20,958
EBIT                                                 -42,545       -59,547     -81,060    -85,119    -90,741
  Net interest payments                                    0             0           0      3,476      3,300
EBT                                                  -42,545       -59,547     -81,060    -88,595    -94,041
  Income Tax                                               0             0           0          0          0
Earnings after Tax                                   -42,545       -59,547     -81,060    -88,595    -94,041

Assumed tariff (RMB/m3)                                 0.98           1.00       0.99       0.99       0.99
Service Price (RMB/m3)2                                 1.84           1.81       2.19       2.18       2.24
Full Cost Price (RMB/m3)3                               1.84           1.98       2.44       2.45       2.54
1) Wastewater fees in Weifang based on assumed wastewater tariff
2) Service price required to meet cash outgoings
3) Service price required for full cost recovery


Table 2.7 below provides a financial forecast for the Qixia City Dongsheng Water and Wastewater
Company (QWC) based on the approved tariff to be implemented from 1st January 2014. The projections
are illustrative only, as there is no history of past financial or operational performance. The wastewater
treatment plant is not yet fully operational – the forecast is however made for the full year 2014 and 2015.

Table 2.7: Projected Financial Performance of the Wastewater Sector in Qixia

                                                                    31
RMB’000                                                2011           2012            2013          2014        2015
                                                      not opr.       not opr.        not opr.      Forecast    Forecast

  Wastewater revenue1                                          -               -              -       7,379       7,983
  Other income                                                 -               -              -           0           0
Total Revenues                                                 -               -              -       7,379       7,983

  Salaries                                                     -               -              -       1,285       1,330
  Electricity Expenses                                         -               -              -       2,837       3,030
  Maintenance Expenses                                         -               -              -         157         163
  Administration                                               -               -              -         503         521
  Other Expenses                                               -               -              -         214         226
Total operating Expenses                                       -               -              -       4,997       5,269

EBITDA                                                         -               -              -       2,382       2,714
   Depreciation                                                -               -              -       1,507       3,014
EBIT                                                           -               -              -         875        -301
  Net interest payments                                        -               -              -       1,849       1,762
EBT                                                            -               -              -        -975      -2,063
  Income Tax                                                   -               -              -           0           0
Earnings after Tax                                             -               -              -        -975      -2,063

Assumed tariff (RMB/m3)                                        -               -              -        0.63        0.64
Service Price (RMB/m3)2                                        -               -              -        0.97        0.93
Full Cost Price (RMB/m3)3                                      -               -              -        0.97        1.08
1) Wastewater fees in Qixia based on assumed wastewater tariff
2) Service price required to meet cash outgoings
3) Service price required for full cost recovery


Table 2.8 below provides a financial forecast for the Rizhao Urban Environmental Company (RUEC)
based on the current tariff. The Company owns and operates the landfill site only. Cost of collection and
transfer is not included. The results show that the current tariff level cannot cover cash outgoings.
Specifically, the financial projections indicate that a solid waste treatment tariff of about RMB 90/ton is
needed to cover full costs. The current tariff of RMB 27/ton can solely cover a smaller part of the costs
with the remaining part of the costs being met by government subsidy. The Rizhao Municipal
Government is expected to continue subsidizing RUEC.

Table 2.8: Financial Projections for the (RUEC)
RMB’000                                              2011            2012           2013            2014        2015
                                                   base year       base year       Forecast       forecast    forecast

  Solid waste revenue1                                3,829          3,860           3,897          4,131       4,378
  Other income                                            0              0               0              0           0
  Operating subsidies
                                                      2,640          3,483           3,442          3,648       3,867
Total Revenues                                        6,469          7,343           7,338          7,779       8,245

  Personnel                                             695            738             820            880         950
  Fuel Expense                                          680            804             890            943       1,000
  Special Materials Expense                             593            521             550            583         618
  Wastewater Treatment Fee                            2,583          3,429           3,640          3,858       4,090
  Water and Electricity Expense                           7             10              10             11          11
  Maintenance Fee                                       174            289             194            201         208
  Administrative expenses                             1,822          1,817           2,287          2,534       2,780
  Other Expenses                                        343            314             325            336         348
Total operating Expenses                              6,897          7,923           8,716          9,346      10,005

EBITDA                                                 -429           -580          -1,378         -1,567      -1,760
  Depreciation                                            0              0               0          4,259       5,910

                                                                      32
EBIT                                                     -429          -580       -1,378     -5,827     -7,669
  Net interest payments                                     0             0            0        282        267
EBT                                                      -429          -580       -1,378     -6,108     -7,936
  Income Tax                                                0             0            0          0          0
Earnings after Tax                                       -429          -580       -1,378     -6,108     -7,936

Assumed tariff (RMB/ton)                                    27            27         27           27       27
Service Price (RMB/ton)2                                    50            61         71           71       72
Full Cost Price (RMB/ton)3                                  50            61         71           87       97
1) Solid waste fees in Rizhao based on assumed solid waste tariff – tipping fee
2) Service price required to meet cash outgoings
3) Service price required for full cost recovery


2.3 Fiscal Sustainability

Affordability of participating Municipalities was analyzed at project appraisal to ensure adequate fiscal
capacity of local government for both debt servicing and incremental recurrent costs needed for the
sustainable operations and maintenance of the project facilities. As illustrated in Table 2.9, municipal
revenues have grown significantly since project start, and are adequate to meet the limited increases in
project costs, and contribute to a positive development in affordability during project implementation.

Table 2.9: Growth in Municipal Revenues during the Project Implementation
 City                                              Revenue

                                                     2005               2012          Increase         Growth
                                                 RMB billion        RMB billion                         Rate
 Heze Municipality                                     1.6               10.5              540%         30.4%
 Rizhao Municipality                                   8.4               14.9               78%          8.6%
 Weihai Municipality                                  10.6               23.1              120%         11.8%
 Weifang Municipality                                 11.9               52.3              331%         23.2%
 Yantai Municipality                                  12.6               46.3              267%         20.4%
 Zaozhuang Municipality                                8.6               22.9              165%         14.9%
 Zibo Municipality                                    11.8               17.5               48%          5.7%




                                                                       33
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                            Responsibility/
              Names                        Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Shenhua Wang             Snr. Urban Specialist/Team Leader       SASDU    Overall
Chaogang Wang            Senior Social Development Specialist   MNSSU     Social
Chongwu Sun              Senior Environmental Specialist         EASCS    Environment
David I                  Sr Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM    Financial Management
Hardy M. Wong            Consultant                             TWIWA     Solid Waste
Jaroslav Kozel           Consultant                             ECSUW     Engineering
Ji You                   Urban Specialist                        EASCS    Engineering
Jian Xie                 Senior Environmental Specialist         ECSEN    Environment
Mei Wang                 Consultant                              EASCS    Economic Analysis
Mingyuan Fan             Sr Sanitary Engineer                    EASCS    Engineering
Patrick E. McCarthy      Consultant                              EASUR    Engineering
Rajagopal S. Iyer        Consultant                              SASDU    Project Management
                                                                EASUR –
Sandra Greiner           Environmental Specialist                         Environment
                                                                  HIS
Shunong Hu               Senior Water Engineer                   EASCS    Engineering
Xiaofeng Li              Operations Analyst                     UDRUR     Operations
Xuemei Guo               Country Program Assistant               EACPQ    Assistant
Zhentu Liu               Senior Procurement Specialist           EASR2    Procurement
Supervision/ICR
Guangming Yan            Infrastructure Spec./Team Leader        EASCS    Overall
Chaogang Wang            Senior Social Development Spec.        MNSSU     Social
Chongwu Sun              Senior Environmental Specialist         EASCS    Environment
David I                  Sr Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM    Financial Management
Hardy M. Wong            Consultant                             TWIWA     Solid Waste
Hong Chen                Operations Officer                      EASSD    Procurement
Jian Xie                 Senior Environmental Specialist         ECSEN    Environment
Jingrong He              Procurement Specialist                  EASR2    Procurement
Jun Zeng                 Social Development Specialist           EASCS    Social
Margaret Png             Lead Counsel                            LEGLE    Counsel
Mei Wang                 Consultant                              EASCS    Economic Analysis
Miki Endo                Operations Officer                      SEGES    Operations
Mingyuan Fan             Senior Sanitary Engineer                EASCS    Engineering
Nicolas Kotschoubey      Consultant                             MNSHD     Project Management
Rajagopal S. Iyer        Consultant                              SASDU    Project Management
                                                                EASUR –
Sandra Greiner           Environmental Specialist                         Environment
                                                                  HIS
Shunong Hu               Senior Water Engineer                   EASCS    Engineering
Vellet E. Fernandes      Program Assistant                       EASIN    Assistant
Xuemei Guo               Country Program Assistant               EACPQ    Assistant
Xujun Liu                Consultant                              EASCS    Procurement
Yi Geng                  Sr Financial Management Specialist      EASFM    Financial Management
Zhentu Liu               Senior Procurement Specialist           EASR2    Procurement



                                            34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                   27.07                         120.66
  FY06                                   52.78                         274.04
  FY07                                   23.79                         107.87
                          Total:        103.64                         502.57
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                    5.58                          20.44
  FY08                                   14.84                          56.32
 FY09                                     7.15                          52.05
 FY10                                    10.78                          72.16
 FY11                                    10.18                          60.54
 FY12                                     9.33                          53.7
 FY13                                     9.85                          32.6
 FY14                                     4.75                          16.16
                          Total:         72.46                         363.99




                                       35
              Annex 5. GEF-supported Septic Tank Management Component

A. Background
A key environmental problem generally found in Shandong Province was insufficient wastewater
treatment and serious pollution of rivers, and the Bohai Sea. Despite the considerable investments made
to collect and treat domestic and industrial wastewater and increase coverage of wastewater services in
major cities, pollution in rivers has decreased only marginally. Most river quality data indicate they are
Class IV or worse. Septage overflows from poorly maintained septic tanks emerged as a major contributor
to pollution of rivers, and the severe damage caused to the shallow Bohai Sea ecosystem. Most cities
depended on septic tanks for wastewater management, which was, and still is, a building code
requirement for every building constructed. Septic tanks were rarely emptied, resulting in overflows of
untreated wastewater to the river systems during sewer blockages and rain storms. Shandong Province,
situated on the east coast of China, has a 3,000 km coastline with the Bohai and Yellow Seas, both of
which drain a major part of the Province.
During the preparation of the Second Shandong Environment Project (SEP II) for World Bank financing,
the GEF provided a Grant of US$5 million additional support, per the request of Shandong Province, to
demonstrate septage management techniques that could contribute to a reduction in land-based pollution
reaching the Bohai Sea, which is a pollution hotspot in the seas of East Asia. Shandong was a signatory of
Memorandum of Agreement initiated by the United Nations Development Program/Global Environment
Facility/International Maritime Organization (UNDP/GEF/IMO) Regional Program.

Yantai Municipality, which has about 19,000 septic tanks, was selected for the pilot GEF activity that was
linked to the Yantai wastewater component of SEP II. An area with 1,700 septic tanks was selected for
the pilot. GEF support was intended to implement major institutional and technology reforms, which
would not otherwise be carried out by any wastewater sector agency in China. The goal of the pilot
project was to demonstrate to Chinese municipalities the rationale for the proper management of septic
tanks. The key objectives of the activity were to: (i) demonstrate the feasibility of institutional and
technical arrangements required to ensure improvements in the local environment; and (ii) disseminate
among Bohai Declaration signatories and to others the positive impacts that can be achieved by reducing
the annual pollution load discharged from septic tanks to the Bohai and Yellow Seas.

B. The GEF-supported Yantai Septic Tank Management Project
Global Environmental Objectives. The Global Environmental Objective of the GEF activity was to
reduce the land-based pollution along the Yantai coast and the Bohai Sea through development of a pilot
septic tank management system in Yantai and dissemination of the Yantai model in Shandong province
and in other parts of China.
GEO Indicators. The GEO outcome indicator was tons/year of pollution discharges to Bohai Sea
reduced.
Project Beneficiaries. The septic tank management system benefitted about 800,000 people.
GEF Project Components/Activities. The GEF-supported activities included: establishment of the septic
tank management system and regulatory framework; provision or facilities and equipment, including a
fleet of ten septage emptying vacuum tankers and associated equipment; joint sewerage-septage treatment
facility at Xinanhe; dissemination and promotion; incremental operating costs; and consulting services for
implementation support and assistance to the Yantai Municipality. The GEF project cost estimate at
appraisal was US$5.40 million, including the GEF Grant of US$5.0 million.

                                                   36
Revised GEF Project Components/Activities and Significant Changes
Two significant changes occurred during implementation. The number and volume of septic tanks
estimated at appraisal were found to be incorrect, requiring adjustments during implementation, such as
the addition of 520 septic tanks, outside the pilot area, to the program, and making adjustment to the
indicator target. The second significant event was the decision of the Yantai Municipal Government to
establish a permanent Septic Tank Management Office in a newly constructed building, staff and annual
budget allocations.
C. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Weaknesses in Baseline Data on Septic Tanks: The number of septic tanks in the pilot area was found
to be 1,056, instead of the 1,700 estimated, and the average volume of a septic tank was found to be about
24 m3, instead of the figure of 44 m3 estimated during the baseline survey. These discoveries impacted
on the performance targets for the subcomponent. During implementation, the Yantai Septic Tank
Management Office expanded the number of septic tanks covered, by including an additional 520 septic
tanks from outside the pilot area.

Project Preparation and Design. The lack of records of existing septic tanks, their ownership and their
operational status, influenced project design, impacted implementation and monitoring outcomes.
Specifically, it impacted on the results indicator which was to measure tons/year of BOD reduced.
Estimation of baseline data had to be done only through a survey, and to a degree, it was impossible to
accurately assess the number and volumes of existing septic tanks in the pilot area, as there were no
records available.

Quality at Entry. Design and quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory, despite the weakness in the
baseline data. The GEO was consistent with the Province’s commitment to sustainable environmental
management, and to the UNDP/GEF/IMO Regional Program to protect large marine ecosystems (LME)
in the Bohai Sea. Project design incorporated global experience, realistic expectations of BOD reduction
in septic tanks, formulation of a framework and regulations for septic tank management, information
collection and operations management systems to develop a detailed monitoring and evaluation protocol,
and arrangements for dissemination of the experience of septic tank management, which was very
relevant to China conditions where use of septic tanks is widespread even to date.

D. Implementation
All original GEF-supported activities were completed by the original loan closing date of December 31,
2013. The original planned project outputs and outcomes were not achieved due to the overestimation of
baseline data. However, with the adjustments made during implementation, it is concluded that the
outcomes were achieved. The GEF Grant of US$ 5.00 million was disbursed, and the Grant leveraged a
Yantai Municipal Government contribution of US$ 3.49 million, compared to the contribution of
US$0.40 million estimated at appraisal.
Factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project, on time, and within budget,
include: (i) the strong commitment of Shandong Province and the Yantai Municipal Government; (ii) the
environmental management policies and framework of Shandong Province; and (viii) the determination of
Yantai Municipality to formulate and implement the GEF-supported pilot septic tank management system
with necessary adjustments and establishing a permanent Office for Septic Tank Management, despite the
difficulties experienced with: incorrect baseline data; procurement and registration of foreign-
manufactured septic tank emptying vehicles; and challenges of emptying septic with highly consolidated
settled solids.



                                                   37
E. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. Incorrect baseline data on the number and volume of septic tanks for the GEF component
indicator, inflated the indicator targets for reduction of pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea. However,
with the information that became available during septic tank emptying, an additional 520 septic tanks
were included, and the target was adjusted. An information system was designed to track routes of
emptying vehicles, frequency of emptying, and volume of septage removed.

Monitoring. A detailed monitoring was done on a daily basis and an information management system
was developed and utilized for monitoring. The monitoring of the septic tank emptying data brought to
light the inaccuracies in the baseline data on the number and volume of septic tanks in Yantai.

Utilization. Monitoring and evaluation information enabled a more accurate assessment of the number
and volumes, septage removed and adjustment of the indicator target.


F. Outputs of the GEF-supported Septic Tank Management System
GEF-supported project activities completed are described below.
(a) Provision of a fleet of ten septic emptying vacuum tankers with capacity of 6 tons, 8 tons and 10 tons,
and associated equipment.
(b) Construction of a joint sewerage-septage treatment plant with a capacity of 45 m3/h, including
deodorization and sewerage pumping facilities.
(c) Development and publication of policy and regulations for septic tank management, including
Regulations for Septic Tank Clean-up and Treatment Operation; and Yantai Urban Septic Tank
Construction and Management Method), and Septic Tank Operation & Maintenance (O&M) manual.
(d) Development of an Information Management System (IMS) for septic tank management.
(e) Establishment of a permanent Septic Tank Management Office with new offices, staff and budget.
(f) Septic tank emptying was internalized, and carried out in over 1,600 septic tanks for each of the past
three years, as illustrated in the table below.
                                 Summary of Septic Tank Emptying Data

                           Number of                 Cleaned-up and Treated               Reduction of
          Year
                           Septic Tanks              Septage (tons)                       BOD5(tons)
          2011             1,080                     10,396.9                             1,453.42
          2012             1,600                     10,018.1                             806.42
          2013             1,600                     10,726.1                             1,294.64
          Total            4,280                     31,141.1                             3,554.48

(g) The Yantai Municipal Government project team participated in 12 international/national conferences,
published five papers, and disseminated over 15,000 promotional materials sharing the experience of the
septic tank management program.
G. Achievement of Global Environment Objectives

The Global Environment Objectives were achieved, as illustrated below (also refer to Results Framework
in the Data Sheet in the main text of the ICR.


                                                    38
•    Land-based pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea was reduced. BOD5 reduction was 1,185 tons/year
     on average (the target was 1700 t/a), which has greatly reduced the influence of land-source pollution
     in Bohai Sea bay
•    The joint sewerage-septage treated at the Xin’anhe WWTP was 10,380 tons/year on average (the
     target was 150,000 tons/year)
•    A lower cost technology for septic tank management was introduced and embraced by Yantai
•    The culture of regular periodic emptying of septic tanks was introduced, resulting in the enhanced
     functioning of septic tanks, and avoided damage caused by sewage overflows
•    A permanent institutional arrangement for septic tank management was established in Yantai
•    A GIS-based information management system to track and monitor tanker routes, operational data,
     and the frequency of emptying is in use in Yantai
•    The experience of the Yantai septic tank management system was disseminated within China and
     abroad
•    A discussion has begun among decision-makers on septic tank design, and changes to building code
     requirements for septic tanks
•    A dynamic monitoring and evaluation was developed, and is in use

H.       Post Completion Phase
Activities planned by the Yantai Municipal Government for the post completion phase include:
(a) continue the campaign to raise citizen awareness of the importance of septic tank maintenance through
regular emptying ST maintenance;
(b) enforce the requirement to empty septic tanks on a regular basis, and select, on a competitive bidding
process, a panel of qualified private companies that will be licensed to undertake septic tank emptying;
(c) support a phased expansion of the septic tank emptying program outside the pilot area;
(d) continue support for the Septic Tank Management Office;
(e) incorporate the cost of septic tank emptying in the wastewater tariff through a marginal increase, as
the task is considered an integral function of wastewater management;
(d) examine the continued use of septic tanks where sewer systems are available, and also consider
changes to the current building code requirement of septic tanks in all buildings;




                                                    39
                                   Annex 6. Resettlement Implementation

Under the project, six cities/counties including Yantai, Heze, Weifang, Gaomi, Qixia, and Zaozhuang had
resettlement activities. Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) were prepared, in consultation with affected
persons (AP), and publicly disclosed, complying with World Bank policies and procedures. Resettlement
activities were implemented according to the RAPs and were monitored by the Shandong Construction
Development and Research Institute as the external monitoring agency. Annual safeguard compliance
reports prepared by the project implementing units were submitted regularly. All resettlement activities
were carried out satisfactorily in accordance with Chinese regulations and Bank policies.
Resettlement activities comprised 1,331.3 mu of permanent land acquisition, 1,620.9 mu of temporary
land use, and 94,750.8 m2 of house demolition. The total area of enterprise, institution and shops affected
was 16,090.8 m2 . Population affected by the project was 4,200 persons. Details are shown in the table 1
below.
             Table 1 Comparison of Actual and Planned Resettlement Impacts of the Project

                                                                                                                         Total
               Permanent Land     Temporary Land                        Enterprise/institutio      Affected
   Sub-                                              House Demolition                                               compensation
                 Acquisition        Occupation                            n/shop affected           people
 component                                                 (m2)                                                          costs
                   (mu)               (mu)                                     (m2)                (Person)
                                                                                                                      (104 Yuan)
                P        A          P        A         P         A        P            A           P       A         P           A
  Yantai      59.5      60.9      296.6    303.8       -         -        -            -          77      59       289.4       426.3
   Heze        366      346         -        -         -         -        -            -          350     271       668         658
  Weifang     102.7     65.9        -        -       24426    17694.1     -            -          225     113     1185.3      1780.8
  Gaomi       74.5      55.0      1211.8   1167.6      -         -        -            -          119     108      368.5       302.6
                                                                        10387.                                    11246.      23824.
 Zaozhuang    551.8    753.4        -        -      107373    77056.7               16090.8       3228   3548
                                                                          7                                          6           2
   Qixia      59.35     50.1      393.5    149.5       -          -       -            -          121     121      376.6       276.2
                                                                        10387.                                    14134.      27268.
  Subtotal     1214    1331.3     1901.9   1620.9   131799    94750.8               16090.8       4718   4220
                                                                          7                                          5           1
  Huantai*     177       0        1218.5     0         0          0       0            0          83          0    614.5         0
   Total                                                                10387.                                                27268.
               1391    1331.3     3120.3   1620.9   131799    94750.8               16090.8       4801   4220     147490
                                                                          7                                                      1
*Note: Huantai dropped out of the project in 2010.
All APs were resettled properly according to the RAP. The implemented compensation standards for land
use and house demolition were equal to or better than those stipulated in the RAP. All compensation was
paid in time and all affected people were consulted fully throughout the whole resettlement process.
Therefore no significant problems happened during the resettlement process. Surveys conducted among
the APs in the project cities/counties indicated that the living quality of the APs is better than before and
their income level has been restored and improved. Table 2 below presents the results of income
restoration of sampled affected households in the project cities/counties.
Of all the project affected population, only 23 people (from 9 households) were classified as belonging to
vulnerable groups in Zaozhuang and Heze sub-components. After land acquisition and housing
demolition, the local government guaranteed their living standards would not be adversely affected. A
variety of training courses and employment information were provided to the family member of
vulnerable groups to improve their work skills and increase their employment opportunities.


                                Table 2 Income Restoration of Affected Households

 Sub-component        No. of Sampled                Household Income                   Increase

                                                             40
                Households                (RMB)                (%)             Notes
                               2007
                                                    2010
                             (Baseline)
   Yantai           8         64,000               106,000     65.6

    Heze            4         39,400               113,500     188.1
                                                                       a
                                                                           surveyed in 2006
  Weifang           5        175,000a              323,000     84.6

   Gaomi            5         138,500              167,000     20.4

 Zaozhuang
                                                                       b
                                                                         surveyed in 2006
Dongsha River      38        910,160b             1,545,380c   69.8    c
                                                                         surveyed in 2009
                                                                       d
 Xisha River       10        248,847d             267,598e      7.5      surveyed in 2011
                                                                       e
                                                                         surveyed in 2012
                                                                       f
                                                                         surveyed in 2006
    Qixia          10        112,600f              144,800     28.6




                                             41
        Annex 7. Performance of Project-financed Wastewater Treatment Plants

This annex provides information on the operational performance of wastewater treatment plants (WWTP)
financed under the project, with respect to frequently encountered problems of over-design in terms of
capacity, low influent BOD concentrations, and high treatment standards in China.

Discharge Standards for Municipal Wastewater in China

The Ministry of Environment (MOE) sets discharge standards of pollutants for municipal wastewater treatment
plant for treated effluent (GB18918-2002). Table 1 below shows the parameters of the Chinese Standards.

 Table1. Highest Allowable Discharge Concentration of Water Pollutants from Sewage Treatment
                                    Plants (Daily Average)
                                         (Unit: mg/l)

                                 Class I Standard
 Basic Controlled Indicators       A         B            Class II Standard   Class III Standard
 COD                              50         60                 100                120 (1)
 BOD5                             10         20                  30                 60 (1)
 Suspended Solids (SS)            10         20                  30                  50
 Animal and Plant Oil              1          3                   5                  20
 Petroleum                         1          3                   5                  15
 Negative Ion Surface Active      0.5         1                   2                   5
 Agent
 Total Nitrogen (as N)            15          20                  -                   -
 NH3-N (as N)                    5 (8)      8 (15)             25 (30)                -
 Total P Built before Dec          1         1.5                  3                   5
 (as P)    2005
           Built before Jan 1,    0.5         1                  3                    5
           2006
 Color (dilution magnitude)       30         30                 40                   50
 PH                                                             6-9
 Bacillus Coli (count/l)         1000      10000               10000                  -

Notes: (1) Removal rate indicators should be higher than 60% when inlet water COD is higher than 350
           mg/l, higher than 50% when BOD is higher than 160 mg/l;
       (2) Values outside brackets refer to controlled values when water temperature is >12 °C, those
           inside refer to controlled values when water temperature is ≤12 °C

The Provincial Environment Protection Bureau (EPB) is responsible to assure that the MOE mandates are
complied with in Shandong Province. Due to the importance attached to the north-south water transfer
scheme and protection requirements for the Bohai Sea, WWTPs in Yantai and Qixia were required to
adopt the Class 1B discharge standards for treated effluent. All WWTPs constructed have monitoring
stations that are directly linked to the Provincial EPB monitoring system. Non-compliance invokes
sanctions generally in the form of fines, and in the extreme cases, suspension of operations.

Project-financed WWTPs. Two treatment plants were constructed under the project, (i) Yantai Xinanhe
WWTP (80,000 m3/d); and (2) Qixia EDZ (20,000 m3/d). Details of the WWTPs and their operations are
provided below.

                                                     42
(a)     Yantai Xinanhe WWTP

This sub-component was completed in November 2008. The completed works include: 16.5km
wastewater collection networks including a 20,000 m3/day pump station; expansion of the existing
40,000 m3/d WWTP by 80,000 m³/d (total 120,000 m3/d), to meet Class 1B discharge standard; and a
3.13 km long sea outfall.

At design stage, the parameters of influent BOD and COD concentrations used were 280 mg/l and 580
mg/l, respectively. By the end of 2013, the average daily wastewater treatment volume was 105,000 m3/d,
corresponding to 87.5% of the designed capacity of 120,000m3/d. Table 2 provided the influent/effluent
concentrations for January to September 2013.


Table 2 Influent/effluent BOD concentrations for January to September 2013

            Jan       Feb       Mar       Apr         May        Jun        Jul      Aug         Sep
Influent    132.0     94.5      143.0     170.0       240.0      171.0      139.0    125.0       168.0
Effluent    2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0      2.0         2.0

(b)     Qixia WWTP

The 20,000 m3/d WWTP, as originally planned, was to collect and treat wastewater generated from an
economic development zone (EDZ) established around the time of project appraisal. During project
implementation, a Government decision mandated the high water consuming industries will not be
permitted in the EDZ. This decision had an impact on the quantity of wastewater that will be generated
from the EDZ. The matter was further complicated by the slow take up of plots in the EDZ, resulting in
inadequate flows to operate the WWTP. The WWTP could not be commissioned for use by project
closure.

As the Qixia Government had plans to de-commission an old WWTP which is within the built-up area of
the city, which happens to be prime valuable land. A decision was made, therefore, to accelerate the de-
commissioning of the old WWTP, by diverting wastewater generated in the city to the project-constructed
WWTP. Using own funds, Qixia city has commenced construction of a 30.2 km long sewer to convey
city wastewater to the project-financed WWTP. About half the length of the pipeline was completed at
project closure, and the sewer is expected to be completed by mid-2014. Upon completion of the pipeline,
the Qixia WWTP will be commissioned and put into operation, utilizing the full 20,000 m3/day capacity
in the second half of 2014. Data on the influent water quality and other operation al details were not
available at the time of the preparation of the ICR.


Conclusions. The capacity utilization in the expanded Yantai WWTP is satisfactory, with 87.5%
utilization. The design influent BOD was 280 mg/l, but the actual BOD concentrations reaching the
WWTP was highest in May (240 mg/l) and averaged about 55% of the design BOD concentration. The
lower influent BOD can be attributed to two possible reasons: (i) about 20%-30% is removed in the
septic tanks, or (ii)high levels of infiltration. The adoption of Class 1B discharge standards was necessary
to protect sensitive water bodies, and to meet the requirements of the MOE.




                                                    43
                              Annex 8 Summary of Borrower's ICR

The following is a summary of the Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report (January 2014),
prepared by the Shandong Provincial Project Management Office on behalf of the Shandong Provincial
Government. The full report with annexes is available in the Project File. (The Borrower’s ICR contains
10 Appendices, and reference is made to these Appendices throughout this Annex)

 1.     Assessment of Project Objective and Quality at Entry
Original Project Objectives

The project development objectives are described in the main text of the Bank ICR, and the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) (36316-CHA, January 30 2007), and are not repeated here.

Quality at Entry

To ensure the quality of project preparation, an international consulting company, was engaged to assist
the project cities to provide design review and advisory services. To ensure successful preparation and
implementation of the project, the provincial government set up a robust structure of project management
arrangements comprising project leading groups and PMOs at both provincial and city levels, replicating
proven arrangements from earlier Shandong projects, which were retained throughout the implementation
period. However, looking back, with the benefit of hindsight, reveals a number of concerns over the
quality of preparations for the “soft” non-infrastructure aspects. These are documented in Section 6
(lessons learned).

 2.     Achievement of objectives and Outputs
Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

The project has undoubtedly contributed to the high level objectives as set out in the PAD. In particular,
both the loan-funded project components and the GEF grant component have contributed to reducing
pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea and East China Sea – most especially the wastewater interventions
in Yantai (which include the GEF intervention) and Weihai, both of which are coastal cities. These
actions are examples of China meeting its obligations under international treaties to reduce pollution
discharge to sensitive coastal waters.

The project made positive impacts and benefits to both the environment and communities in the project
cities, including reduced untreated wastewater discharges, improved water supply systems, improved
solid waste collection, transportation and disposal, and community and economic development. The
Yantai GEF pilot project contributed to a reduction in land-based pollution discharges from other cities
reaching the marine environment. Where relevant, the project interventions allowed the project cities to
meet the SPG 2010 targets for wastewater and municipal solid waste management. Appendix 9 and
Appendix 11 provide details of the project environmental benefits, specific environment benefits of the
GEF pilot project.

Achievement of Project Components

All physical works for nine participating cities/counties, including pilot GEF-supported septic tank
management activity, were completed and the objectives were largely achieved. The institutional
development and capacity building programs for project owners, SPHURCB, SPFB, SPEPB and local
government decision-makers were implemented as agreed (see section 2.6 below).


                                                   44
A comparison of original physical components (Components 1, 2 and 3) and as-built components, and
project costs are provided in Annex 2 and Annex 3, respectively, of the main Bank ICR, and are not
repeated here. Details are also provided in Appendix 1 and Appendix 3 of the Borrower’s ICR.

Procurement

The procurement of all the project contracts was undertaken in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, and
anll PIUs acknowledged the fair and high management standards of the bidding process. PIUs questioned
the requirement to award contracts to the lowest responsive bidder. However, the bidding procedure itself
undoubtedly was beneficial to the employers. Appendix 5 provides procurement details.

Economic Benefits

The Project has undoubtedly contributed to the Government’s development objectives of sustainable
economic growth, rural to urban economic migration and the creation of liveable cities. Economic output
in the project cities has increased from RMB 637.12 billion in 2005 to RMB 1963.7 billion in 2012, an
increase averaging 17.4% per annum. Specific benefits at the city level are discussed in Appendix 6.

The forms of direct economic benefits are variable due to various natures of different sub-components.
Specific benefit streams have included: (i) flood protection, enhanced property values, amenity and
tourism benefits from river rehabilitation; (ii) public health benefits, improved water quality in rivers and
coastal waters from wastewater sub-components; (iii) meeting increasing demand, and health benefits by
water supply component; and (iv) job creation and economic incentives by all sub-components.

Financial Performance

The financial viability of the Project’s water and wastewater components and Rizhao municipal solid
waste component were assessed based on the ability of the relevant utility tariff to generate sufficient
revenues for the project companies to meet their principal financial targets. These targets, which were
also covenanted, with a cost recovery ratio of at least 1.0 and debt servicing coverage of at least 1.3, and
set on the assumption that related financial and institutional reforms took place that would allow all
related water, wastewater and solid waste charges revenues to be transferred to the relevant project
companies. However these financial and institutional reforms were neither covenanted nor included in
the project design, and have never taken place in the wastewater and municipal solid waste sectors. As a
result, some technical non-compliance with the financial covenants have been reported annually to the
Bank, even worse, local governments have been reluctant to increase water and other public utility tariffs
in recent years. However, where revenues have fallen short of full cost recovery, all local governments
have ensured the O&M costs of these key public services have been fully funded.

The other sub-components of the project were deemed as “non- revenue generating” at project appraisal
and therefore justified by assessing the financing sustainability of required budgetary support from the
relevant local governments. Government revenues have grown stronger substantially over the period of
project implementation, therefore the fiscal sustainability has enhanced further.

As explained in Appendix 11, the financial sustainability of the septic tank management in Yantai was
strengthened during the design and implementation of the GEF grant component by integrating septic
tank management by a broader management and financing of the wastewater services in the city. This
approach will be recommended to other cities where relevant, and the experience of Yantai has already
been widely disseminated in and out of Shandong.



                                                     45
More information related to the Project companies’ financial performance and the current status of local
government fiscal sustainability is in Appendix 8 of this report.

Construction Management

The construction management practice of all agencies involved in implementation has improved through
their adoption of the institutional strengthening and training package.

These arrangements enabled project construction to be carried out to a satisfactory standard and in a
timely manner, such that most of physical works were completed well in advance of the original loan
closure date. Effective construction management was a key factor for the successful completion of most
contracts.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement

Land acquisition and resettlement of affected residents was undertaken in accordance with the RAP
approved by the World Bank and endorsed by SPG. Resettlement compensation made generally good
progress. All affected residents were resettled properly and received full compensation. External
monitoring indicates that the income level of affected residents is higher than before the project and their
standard of living has recovered or improved. Detailed information on implementation is provided in
Annex 9, and Appendix 10.

Environmental Management and Environmental Benefits

During project implementation the PIUs carried out environmental management work in compliance with
the project legal documents including the EMP. The project has achieved significant positive
environmental impacts, such as improving the quality of water supply, reducing pollution of rivers and
promoting appropriate solid waste management, and these impacts are beneficial to public health and the
quality of urban life.

Environmental improvements achieved at project closure include: (a) extension of wastewater facilities
and river course rehabilitation have improved sanitation conditions and flood protection for about
2,017,000 people (the target was over 1,100,000 people). About 730,000 people (the target was
about300,000 people) received access to new piped potable water supplies and 1,122,000 people (the
target was 1,100,000 people) have benefitted from the provision of upgraded solid waste collection and
treatment facilities; (b) the volume of wastewater treated reached 239.6 million m3/year (target was 226
million m3/year) and annual pollution abatement1 reached 22,579 tons of BOD (target was 22,080
ton/year), 4,640 tons of NH3-N (target was 4,031 ton/year), 673 tons of total phosphorus (target was 309
ton/year) and 43,437 tons of SS (target was 29,393 ton/year); (c) the volume of municipal solid waste
collected and transferred to sanitary landfill reached 351,660 ton/year (target was 450,775 ton/year). The
actual population growth for Heze and Rizhao did not reach the prediction made during the project
appraisal stage, so the volume of municipal solid waste collected and transferred to sanitary landfill did
not exceed the 2013 end target; and (d) urban water supply production reached 25.1 million m3/year (the
target was 53.3 million m3/year). More information related to EMP implementation and the
environmental benefits resulting from each sub-component are shown in Appendix 9.



1
  Qixia EDZ WWTP has not put into operation yet, so the pollution abatement in terms of BOD, NH3-N, TP and SS
is 0; and Weifang’s data not available


                                                     46
Poverty Alleviation and Social Impact

Achievements in poverty alleviation and social benefits included: (i) significant local temporary job
opportunities and over 200 new permanent jobs in O&M; (ii) health benefits to a population of 730,000,
including 340,000 in fluoride-affected areas; (iii) public health and amenity benefits from improved flood
control; (iv) extending solid waste collection and closure of unsanitary refuse dumps; (v) increased
wastewater collection and treatment (including improved quality of coastal bathing waters in Yantai and
Weihai); (v) equal access to services by the poor and vulnerable people including improved affordability
due to rising income levels across the social spectrum’ (vi) all displaced persons benefited from strict
application of the Bank’s policies on involuntary resettlement, thus mitigating the main social risk
identified at project appraisal; and (vii) social benefits of the Yantai GEF project, including better
residential environments by eliminating septic tank overflows, reducing pollution of the sea, improving
the quality of bathing beaches and reducing the possibility of the spread of contagious diseases.

 3.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of the local government or the implementing agency

The exchange rate of US$ with RMB was steady 1:8.27 up to July 2005, but fell to around 1:6.05 by loan
closure in December 2013. This total fall of over 25% significantly reduced the real value of WB loan and
increased the level of counterpart funding required as most contracts were denominated in Chinese RMB
rather than US dollars.

Huantai County decided for its own reasons to withdraw from the project at a very early stage. This
necessitated a project restructuring and the Zhoucun sewerage and river rehabilitation sub-component
being introduced.

Factors under the control of the local government

Water, wastewater, and municipal solid waste user tariffs have not kept pace with inflation let alone
increased to recognize the improved services now offered as a result of the project. This failure to act on
the part of local governments has increased the level reliance on government subsidies, made involvement
less attractive to the private sector, and further reduced the limited financial autonomy of the project
implementing agencies (as well as compromising compliance with financial covenants in the loan legal
documents). Qixia EDZ Administration has still to implement any wastewater tariff.

Weifang government made several changes of mind and had long period of indecision in what wastewater
treatment solution should be implemented for the area benefiting from the WB funded sewerage
improvements. Although a solution is now being implemented via local funding, the achievement of a
successful outcome was delayed and loan savings of about US$ 10.9 million resulted.

Factors under the control of the PIUs

The WB guidelines that the contract should be awarded to the bidder who offers the lowest substantially
responsive bid was questioned by most PIUs. Some issues have occurred where contracts were awarded
on the basis of the lowest cost with the contractor subsequently trying to increase its payments through
variations and claims as a result of ambiguities in the contract documents. It has therefore been identified
that contract documents in general should be of a higher quality to prevent the malign competition with
low price bidding.




                                                    47
Although loan was allocated to each PIU for local training initiatives, most of these funds have not been
used due to various reasons. The loan was intended for the PIU to identify their training needs in order to
enhance technical, financial or institutional capability.

Staff changes occurred during the project preparation and implementation which caused some difficulties.
In most cases, there was no proper transition arrangement for staff changes resulting in a negative impact
on the project implementation, such as impeding project monitoring by not providing updated information
or data in time.

Costs and Financing

Costs. A breakdown of project costs by components is provided in Appendix 3 where the final project
costs are compared with those identified in the PAD. Total project costs (including GEF) identified
during project appraisal were US$ 281.11 million (refer to Annex 5 of the PAD), of which the total
project cost for the loan project was US$275.71 million and the cost for the GEF project was US$5.4
million. The detailed completion costs for each of the project components are included in Appendix 3 of
this report.

Financing. Comparison of the final financing plans with that included in the PAD for the loan and GEF
grant parts of the project are available in Annex 2 of the ICR. Counterpart funding sources included: state
bonds, provincial government provision, and local finance from municipal government and the PIUs. The
final financing ratio of Bank loan to counterpart financing was 50.5% to 49.5%. During project appraisal,
that ratio was estimated to be 53.3% to 46.7%. The ultimate financing ratio of GEF Grant to counterpart
financing was 58.9% to 41.1%. During project appraisal, that ratio was estimated to be 92.6% to 7.4%,
with the significant difference resulting from additional investment made by Yantai into its facilities for
managing septage.

 4.     Project Sustainability
Prospects for Sustainability. We recognize sustainability of the Project needs to be viewed in terms of
(a) whether an appropriate institutional arrangement has been set up to provide for managerial autonomy
and sustainability; (b) the ability of assigned institutions to operate and maintain the facilities; and (c)
financial sustainability. In our view the overall Project can be considered largely sustainable against these
criteria, but there are some reservations. Except in Qixia, where O&M capacity has yet to be tested, all
facilities are being well operated and maintained. Although all local governments are providing sufficient
budget or subsidies to ensure project operations are fully financed, tariffs are generally not at a level that
provide for financial sustainability.

Ensuring sustainability was a key design feature of the GEF grant funded septic tank management (STM)
study in Yantai, where the new management method clearly defines institutional responsibilities for STM,
and financing of the service has been integrated with wastewater management. Project sustainability is
briefly discussed in paragraphs 4.2 through 4.4 below and in further detail in Appendix 7. In summary,
institutional sustainability is mixed, financial sustainability rests on the adequacy of continued budgetary
subsidies from local government in almost every case, and operational sustainability can be considered to
be well assured except in Qixia.

Institutional and Managerial Sustainability. In the case of the Gaomi, Rizhao, and Weihai components,
the IAs were already well established operating units experienced in relevant public utility management.
All three are legally and nominally managerially autonomous but with autonomy partially compromised
due to a lack of financial autonomy or the fact they are closely supervised by government departments.
However, if there was the political will they could easily be made more fully autonomous. In the case of
Heze, Yantai and Qixia, the PIUs were newly formed companies that are now also responsible for O&M

                                                     48
of the project facilities. Heze is staffed in a manner that would facilitate similar autonomy to Rizhao, but
the Yantai and Qixia PIUs are currently not viable as independent institutions.

Financial Sustainability. Financial sustainability for revenue generating sub-projects should be judged by
the cost recovery rate. This was referred to in paragraph 2.5 and is discussed in more detail in Appendix
8. Currently only Gaomi water sub-component can be considered financially sustainable and this is
further assured by recent policy announcements at national level that will result in significant increases in
water tariffs. All the wastewater implementing agencies are still financed via budgetary transfers, which
make no provision for depreciation. Thus technically they are not sustainable in financial terms as
budgets and capital investment funding cannot be assured into the future - however, at the present time for
all project components, the budgets are adequate for full funding of O&M requirements in 8 of the 9
cities. In Qixia, the project facilities have yet to be brought into operation.

Operational Sustainability. In 8 of the 9 cities the project facilities are being operated satisfactorily and
staff are adequately trained. In some instances, such as Yantai, Rizhao, Gaomi, Weihai and Heze, the
project facilities have already been operational for a number of years and operational sustainability can be
fully assured based on this experience. The only concern relates to Qixia in view of the fact the new
WWTP cannot yet be brought into operation and therefore the sustainability of future operations cannot
be assured at this time.

 5.     The Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance. From the Borrower’s perspective the actual performance of the Bank has been
somewhat mixed. Whilst good advice on technical design was provided during project preparations, the
monitoring and evaluation framework and associated performance indicators proved to be poorly
designed and the established performance baseline was inadequately documented. Also some Bank
stipulations in the legal documents were inappropriate (especially the requirement to on-lend to agencies
with no financial capacity to repay, an issue referred to in the Design Review and Advisory Consultant’s
report, and which repeated mistakes from other projects).

During implementation, the Bank has been generally supportive and responsive, although there have been
frustrating delays in obtaining some “no objections” where there was no obvious reason for any delay.
From the governments perspective there could also have been more flexibility shown by the Bank in
dealing with the changes proposed in Weifang, leading to a lost opportunity to fully utilize the loan.

Borrower Performance. The national and provincial government’s commitment to the project remained
strong and supportive during all phases of the Project. Local governments also generally performed well
as evidenced by the fact that all physical works were completed on schedule, almost all loan covenants
were fully complied with throughout project implementation, safeguard activities were mostly well
managed, there were no instances of mis-procurement and only minor technical matters were raised
during financial audits. Details of covenant compliance are provided in Appendix 12.

However, exceptions to this general high level of performance were (i) Huantai government’s action to
withdraw from the project, (ii) changes and delays in implementing an effective wastewater treatment in
Weifeng (with consequential loan savings resulting), (iii) protracted delays in handling resettlement issues
in Zaozhuang, and (iv) the reluctance on the part of all local governments to increase water, wastewater
and MSW user tariffs.

 6.     Lessons Learned
Overview. The SDEPII has been very successful with most of its original objectives achieved particularly
in terms of the planned physical interventions. The entire implementation process has been a valuable
experience for all the agencies involved, and much capacity building of the IAs has been achieved that

                                                     49
will help them with future projects. The WB loan has not just simply helped finance the Project, but has
also introduced advanced management practices for project implementation and enterprise operation, such
as modern project management, international practice of bidding and contracting, construction
supervision, performance measurement, and the project completion evaluation. Significant capacity
building in WB procurement, contract and project management, WWTP operations and maintenance,
environmental monitoring, and financial management have been achieved. WB project implementation
rules and procedures on procurement, contracts management and construction supervision have been
broadly accepted as being fair and giving greater assurance of a satisfactory outcome. Good experience
has been gained by practicing these rules and procedures, which have been replicated on similar projects
not financed by WB.

Implementation Lessons

Multi Disciplinary Contracts. The PIUs expressed the view during the project completion phase that there
may be some advantages in implementing projects, such as WWTP construction, by means of single
multidisciplinary contracts. In two WWTP projects in Yantai and Qixia, this type of contracting approach
was used. With this method, any interfaces between the different disciplines are the responsibility of a
single contractor. This is a major advantage to the PIU and project owners, simplifies project
management, transfers risk away from the project owner, and sharpens accountability for project delivery.
Several of the PIUs now agree that such a contracting arrangement would be useful in the future.

Collaboration for inter-municipal wastewater treatment: Zhoucun and Zouping County reached agreement
on cost-sharing for capital and operating costs for wastewater facilities. Measures were also put in place
to monitor the quality of effluent flowing from Zouping County to Zhoucun, and to measure the volume
of flows. This achievement signifies collaboration for inter-municipal infrastructure planning and
construction, including collaboration between neighbouring Environmental Protection Bureaus.

Lessons for the Future

Arrangement for Utilising the Remaining Bank Loan. Although loan savings were identified from 2010
onwards and discussed with the Bank in May 2011, it proved impossible to put these saving to effective
use. The main cause was the lack of a scientifically prepared proposal, acceptable to the Bank, from the
Weifang Government to justify its plans as an alternative means of achieving the PDO of SDEPII. The
issue remained unresolved until the middle of 2013 leaving insufficient time for utilizing the loan saving
by other project cities. It is felt the issue might have been resolved within reasonable time if the SPG had
intervened earlier, and the Bank had shown greater flexibility and understanding in its consideration of
Weifang’s plans.

Prevention of Unreasonable Contract Variations. PMOs and IAs now realize the importance of
accurately preparing the bidding documents, including designs, specifications and BOQ, etc. This will
benefit the PIUs by enabling unreasonable variations to be easily rebutted in future.




                                                    50
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


(i) Project Appraisal Document

(ii) Loan Agreement and amendments

(iii) Project Agreement and amendments

(iv) Environmental Assessment dated February 2006

(v) Resettlement Action Plans

(vi) Social Assessment

(vii) Dam Safety Report

(viii) Procurement Plans and updates

(ix) Aide-memoires, Management Letters and 8 Implementation Status Reports

(x) Restructuring Paper of January 2010

(xi) GEF Component: Project Completion Evaluation Report by ESD China Ltd.

(xii) Complete Borrower’s Implementation Completion and Results Report, including ten (10)
Appendices




                                             51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To Chita
                                                                                 80°E                     90°E                                            100°E                                110°E                                120°E                                 130°E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           He
                                                                                                         RUSSIAN FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ilo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Jia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Chita

                                                                           KAZAKHSTAN
                                                     CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Qiqihar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Harbin
                                                                                                                                                       MO NGO LIA
               40°                                                                                                                                                                          To
                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Changchun
                                                                                        Urumqi                                                                                          Ulaanbaatar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    J I L I N
                      TAJ
                          IK   IST                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Shenyang
                                  A                    Kashi                                                                                                                                                                                           LIAON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L I A O N IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ING            DEM.               40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                          L                                                                      Anshan       PEOPLE'S
                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                     GO                                                                                                        Sea of
                                                                        X I N J I A N G                                                                                         M ON         Hohhot                                                                            REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                           NE
                                                                                                                                                                              I        Baotou                             BEIJING                                              KOREA           Japan
               AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                         Hua
                                                                                                                                                                                                ng He                              BEIJING    Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tianjin Hai          Dalian
                                       To
                                      Mardan                                                                                                                                                                              H E B E I TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                       Yinchuan                              Shijiazhuang                                            REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Taiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jinan                                           KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                   IA
                          This map was produced by




                                                                                                                                                                               NINGX
                          the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                            Xining                                    SHANXI                                          Qingdao
               PAKISTAN   World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                    Lanzhou                                                                                    Yellow
                          colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANDONG
                          any other information shown
                                                                                                                 QINGHAI                                                                                                                                             Sea
                          on this map do not imply, on                                                               To                                                                                                   Zhengzhou                                                            JAPAN
               30°                                                          X I Z A N G                                ng                                                                                 Luoyang
                  N       the part of The World Bank                                                                        t                                       G A N S U             Xi'an                                                 JIANGSU

                                                                                                                        ia n
                          Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                 Huang He                                                  HENAN
                          legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                SHAANXI
                          or any endorsement or
                          acceptance of such
                          boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                               Hefei              Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Shanghai                           30°N
                                                                                                         Nu                                                                                                                                                    SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AN  HUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N HU
                      0               300 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                           HUBEI
                                                                                                                                            Jinsha    SICHUAN                                         Chang Jiang                                            Hangzhou                 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                 Lhasa                                                                                                                         Wuhan




                                                                                                                                                                                              IN
                                                                                                                                La



                                                                                                                                                                            Chengdu
                                                                                                                                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     China




                                                                                                                                                                                              Q
                                              INDIA
                                                                                                                                 ca




                                                                                                                                                                                           NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ZHEJIANG
                                                                 NEPAL
                                                                                                                                    ng




                      0        100     200      300 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                        CH
                                                 80°E                                                                                                                                   Chongqing                                      Nanchang
                                                                            To
                                                                   CHINA
                                                                       Nepalganj
                                                                                        To BHUTAN                                                                                                        HU
                                                                                                                                                                                                         H U N AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               AN          Changsha

                                         S EC OND S H AND ONG                           Munger
                                                                                                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                                                                   GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                     UIZ HOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              J IAN   GXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I A N GXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F U J I A N Fuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                       Guiyang
                                       E NV I R ONM ENT P R O J E CT
                                                                                                                                                        Kunming
                                                               PROJECT AREA         BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                   TAIWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TAIWAN
                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                     YUNNAN                                                                  GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                         G U A N G X I
                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                    Xun       Guangzhou
                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                 MYANMAR




                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                           Mandalay                                                                                Nanning                        HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MACAO                                                                20°N
                                                               RIVERS       20°N                         MYANMAR                                                     VIETNAM
                                                               MAIN ROADS                                                                  LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Haikou
                                                                                                                                         PEOPLE'S
JANUARY 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 35288
                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                           DEM.                                                    HAINAN
                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                              THAILAND                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                           REP.                                     Da Nang
                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                               90°E                                                        100°E                                                         110°E                                                      120°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 34859R

                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
GSDPM             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                he
Map Design Unit   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                            n
                                                                                                                         Yu
                                                                                                                    Da                                                                                                                                                           Bo         Hai


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Changdao
                                                                                                                                     Zhangwei Xinhe                                                                       Hekou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Penglai
                                                                                                                                                      Qingyun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Yantai Waste
                                                   HEBEI                                                                   Ningjin
                                                                                                                                              Leling                 Wudi                      Zhanhua                                                                                                                                                               Water Treatment         Weihai Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Water Treatment
                                                                                                                                                ia                                                                                                                                                             Longkou
                                                                                                                                             aj                Yangxin
                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kenli                                                                                                                     Fushan          Yantai                          Weihai
                                                                                                                                                              Huimin                                            Lijin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Qixia Waste
                                                                                                     Dezhou                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Water Collection                  Laishan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Binzhou                   He                            Dongying
                                                                                                                  Linxian                                                                                                                                          L a i z h o u Wa n                                                                                              Muping




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     He
                                                                                                                                                                                               w)                                                                                                                        Zhaoyuan              Qixia
                                                                                                                                                                                     ( Ye ll o
                                                                                                                                                       Shanghe




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ija
                                                                                      Wucheng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                gu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rongcheng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Da
                                                                                                                                     Linyi                                           Gaoqing
                                                                                                                                                                         g                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Wendeng
                                                                                                Pingyuan                                                         H   uan                        Boxing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Laizhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Guangrao
                                                                                                                                                                                 Xiaoxing He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i He
                                                                                                                                                               Zhoucun                                                                                                                                                          Laiyang
                                                                          Xiajin                                                             Jiyang           Wastewater                                                                                                                                                                                                     Rushan
                                                                                                      Yucheng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          We
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Huantai                      Weifang Waste
                                                                                                                                                              Collection              Zouping                                               Water Collection Changyi
                                                            Linqing                Gaotang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Laixi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shoguang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Linzi                                                                         Pingdu                                                      Haiyang
                                                                                                                  Qihe                                                    Zhoucun
                                                                                                                                                                      Zhangqiu                        Zibo                                                             Hanting
                                                                                                                                                Licheng                                                                                           Weifang
                                                                                      Chiping                                                                                                                       Qingzhou             Changle
                                                                                                                                         JINAN                                                      Zichuan
                                                                                                        Changqing                                                                                                                                                                             J io la i
                                                                                                                                                                                             Boshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fangzi                                   He                                                                       Huang Hai
                                                        Guan Xian                                                                                                                                                                    Linqu
                                                                             Liaocheng
                                                                                     Dong’e
                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANDONG                                                   Anqiu                  Gaomi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jimo

                                                             Shen                                                                                                                                                                                        n   He
                                                             Xian
                                                                                                          Pingyin                                                                                                                                     We                                                                    Chengyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jiaozhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yiyuan                                                       Gaomi Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Water Treatment
                                                              Yanggu                                                 Feicheng
                                                                                                                                                     Tai’an           Laiwu                                                                                               and Water Supply                                   Laoshan
                                                                                                                                                                                          Gangcheng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Yi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Qingdao




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Huangdao
                                                                                                          Dongping                                                   Daw                                                                                                         Zhucheng
                                                                                                                                                                           en
                                                                                                                                                                                He       Xintai                                                                                               Jiaonan
       HENAN                                                            Liangshan
                                                                                                                          Ningyang                                                                                             Yishui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHINA
                                                                                                          Wenshan
                                                                                                                                                         Sishui
                                                                                                                                                                                               Mengyin                                                             Wulian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SECOND SHANDONG
                                              He




                                                                                                Da




                                                        Juancheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                 Yu




                                              )                               Yuncheng                                                                                                                                                             Juxian
                                         ow                                                                   Yanzhou                                                                                                          Yinan                                      Rizhao
                                                                                                    n




                                   ell                                                                                                                                          Pingyi
                                                                                                     he




                                 (Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Solid Waste
                        a   ng                        Heze                               Jiaxiang
                   Hu                             Solid Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rizhao
                            Dongming                                                  Juye                    Jinning                   Zoucheng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rizhao                                                             Solid Waste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED PROJECT SITES
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Be
                                         Heze                                                                                                                                                             ng
                                                                                                                                                                                      Fei Xian                 He
                                                                        Wa nf u H e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Junan                                                                                                                       EXPRESSWAYS
                                                  Dingtao                                        Jinxiang         Nanyang                            Tengzhou     Shanting                                                   Hedong                                                                                                                                       EXPRESSWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                     Hu                                                                                         Linyi
                                                                                                          Yutai                                                 Zaozhuang Waste                                                                                                                                                                                           HIGHWAYS
                                                                       Chengwu                                                                                   Water Collection                   Louzhuang                           Linshui                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
                                                  Cao Xian                                                                                                                 Zaozhuang                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                     Weishan
                                                                                     Shan Xian                                                           Xuecheng                                     Cangshan                                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                             Yicheng                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                            Taier                         Tancheng                                                                                                                                                        COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                               Weishan                     Zhuang
                                                                                                                                                 Hu                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                  HENAN
                                                                                                  ANHUI                                                                                                                                           JIANGSU                                                                                                        0         20        40      60      80

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FEBRUARY 2014
