 IEG
                                                                                           Report Number: ICRR14669

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 04/28/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P077752                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Second Shandong             Project Costs (US$M):                 286.11              248.04
                         Environment Project
  L/C Number:            L4852                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                 152.00              143.18
      Sector Board:      Water                       Cofinancing (US$M):                      0                   0

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                             02/27/2007
                                                             Closing Date:           12/31/2013         12/31/2013
          Sector(s):       Sanitation (77%); Water supply (13%); Solid waste management (9%); Sub-national
                           government administration (1%)
         Theme(s):         Pollution management and environmental health (67% - P); Water resource management
                           (33% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:          ICR Review                Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy J. W. Van Holst             Christopher David         IEGPS1
                     Pellekaan                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project development objective stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 4) for the Second
Shandong Environment Project (SEP II) was to “improve the environmental conditions in participating
municipalities/counties through a package of priority interventions, including upgrading and development of waste
water collection and treatment facilities, river embankment rehabilitation, solid waste management, water supply
improvements, industrial pollution monitoring, and enhancement of the financial performance and efficiency of key
urban environmental service agencies”

The project development objective stated in the Loan Agreement for SEP II (page 4) is to “assist Shandong Province
in improving, in a sustainable manner, the quality of its environment through selected waste water, solid waste and
water supply investments and technical assistance in the Project Municipalities and Project Counties and through
enhancement of the financial performance and efficiency of key urban environment services”

As per the IEG guidelines, the project development objective in the Legal Agreement is used in this Review to assess
the project's achievements.

The Global Environment Objective of the (Global Environment Facility) stated in the PAD and in the Grant Agreement
was identical. The objective was to “reduce land-based pollution along the Yantai coast and the Bohai Sea through
development of a pilot septic-tank management system in Yantai and dissemination of the Yantai model in Shandong
Province and in other parts of China"

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
Component 1: Waste Water Management and River Embankment Rehabilitation (Appraisal cost: US$182.38 M and
Actual cost: US$187.33 M) This component included: (i) construction of waste water collection systems, treatment
plants and treated effluent re-use facilities; (ii) pilot septic tanks management; and (iii) associated river embankment
rehabilitation. Project locations include Gaomi, Huantai, Qixia, Weifang, Weihai, Yantai and Zaozhuang counties, with
associated river embankment rehabilitation in Qixia, Weifang and Zaozhuang counties.

The component also included the GEF pilot that: (i) established a septic tank unit to implement the project; (ii)
designed and approved septic tank management system in Yantai; (iii) procured equipment and auxiliary facilities; (iv)
collected septage and treated it in Xinanhe Waste-water Treatment Plant (WWTP); (v) undertook monitoring and
evaluation of results; and (vi) disseminated outcomes through workshops, seminars, study tours and visits, training
and pamphlets etc. to publicize GEF intervention.

Component 2: Solid Waste Management - (Appraisal cost US$21.26 M; Actual cost: US$29.25 M)

This component was implemented in Heze and Rizhao counties. It included construction of: (a) integrated solid waste
processing, recycling, composting and sanitary landfill facility in Heze county; and (b) sanitary landfill extension,
transfer stations, and collection facilities in Rizhao county.

Component 3: Water Supply Management – (Appraisal cost US$30.39 M; and Actual cost: US$20.40 M)

This component was to be implemented in Gaomi and Huantai counties. It included construction and rehabilitation of
waste water (WW) transmission mains, distribution network, and central control systems.

Component 4: Institutional Development and Capacity Building – (Appraisal cost: US$4.52 M; Actual cost: US$2.57
M)

This Component included four sub-components. They were: (a) Construction, management and business
development; (b) Sector studies; (c) Capacity building of provincial EPB and (d) Capacity enhancement of provincial
and local government decision makers and project owners.

Restructuring during Implementation
1. The project was restructured in January 2010 leading to an amendment to the Loan Agreement by: (i) deleting
Huantai county and substituting it with Zhoucun county; and (ii) correct a drafting error in the legal agreement, to
increase the civil works disbursement percentage for Zaozhuang county from 70% to 100%.

2. The Yantai county Septic Tank Management Office added 520 septic tanks from outside the pilot area. According
to the baseline survey, the number of septic tanks was 1,700, but, during implementation, it was found to be only
                                                                            3                3
1,056 and the average volume of a septic tank was found to be about 24 m , instead of 44 m as per the base line
records. The reports from the baseline survey regarding the number of septic tanks and its average volume were
corrected during implementation.

3. The pre-treatment of waste water intercepted from Weifang county in downstream wetlands along the Bailang River
was deleted to accord with a Government mandate that required new municipal WWTPs to be upgraded to Class 1A
discharge standards by 2015. This resulted in a total Loan saving of about US$11 M, which was canceled at Loan
closure as the Weifeng Municipal Government and the Shandong Provincial Government (SPG) were
not able to formulate alternative proposals to utilize Loan savings.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Costs: The estimated cost at appraisal (including the GEF Grant) was US$286.11 M. The actual cost at completion
(including the GEF Grant) was US$248.04 M (ICR, Annex).

Financing: The project was financed by: (a) IBRD Loan - appraisal cost US$147.00 M, actual cost $134.69 M; and (b)
GEF Grant - appraisal cost US$5.00 M, actual cost US$8.49 M.

Borrower Contribution : Government funding commitment at appraisal was US$134.11 M The actual funding from the
Government was US$105.55 M

Dates:
Restructuring of the Second Shandong Environment Project (SEP II) was agreed on February 5, 2010. The SEP II
Loan and the GEF Grant for SEP II both closed on schedule on December 31,/2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:
a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial

The project development objective (PDO) was consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) of FY 2006-F Y2010 (Report No. 46896-CN) and remained well aligned with the new CPS (Report No.
67566-CN) of FY2013-FY2016 at closure. With regard to its relevance to national priorities, the PDO was fully
consistent with the national government and Shandong Province policies (reducing domestic and industrial pollution
discharges, improving water quality in the major rivers, protecting large marine ecosystems, improving environmental
management, reducing waste-water treatment rates, increasing water supply coverage and enhancing re-use of
water). The PDO also continued to remain relevant to the priorities for Shandong Province at closure.

The GEO was also consistent with the Province’s commitment to the UNDP/GEF/IMO Regional Program for protect
large marine ecosystems (LME) in the Bohai Sea and relevant to the Bank’s assistance strategy.

b. Relevance of Design:
Modest

The results matrix captured the dimensions of the PDO, the GEO, and most of the project's indicators, but the results
matrix did not elucidate the results chain. In addition, some important baseline data (the number and size of septic
tanks in Yantai) were incorrect in the results matrix which also had no sector and municipality baseline indicators,
making it difficult to reconcile the project intentions with the tracking of progress against project indicators.

As the ICR noted, project design, was consistent with the PDO and was based on extensive background analysis. The
components were suitably chosen to support the achievement of the PDO and addressed the Borrower's crucial
priorities for improved waste water/solid waste management and improved water supplies (page 3).

The design fully considered lessons related to borrower ownership and the adequacy of environmental infrastructure
investments. In this regard, it built on the past Bank financed projects that reflected commitment of Shandong
Province to sound environmental management.

In terms of implementation arrangements, the highly experienced Shandong Provincial Project Management Office
(SPPMO) was designated to manage project preparation, coordinate project activities, including social and
environmental safeguards.

The PAD identified the risk of a "delay in required tariff setting and collection mechanisms, and low user fee
collections, threatening financial sustainability" as substantial (para 39). This affected both utility tariffs and solid
waste tariffs. In line with the mitigation measures proposed in the PAD the establishment of utility tariffs was
facilitated by defining utility revenues in the Project Agreement. Mitigation measures for solid waste tariff reform was
"through a covenant requiring a study, recommendations and implementation of a tariff, which was appropriate in a
climate where levy of direct solid waste charges is relatively new in China" (ICR, Section 2.1, page 4).


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The development objective was to “improve the environmental conditions in participating municipalities/counties
through a package of priority interventions, including upgrading and development of waste water collection and
treatment facilities, river embankment rehabilitation, solid waste management, water supply improvements, industrial
pollution monitoring, and enhancement of the financial performance and efficiency of key urban environmental service
agencies”. This project development objective (PDO) embodied four sub-objectives which were assessed separately
in order to evaluate overall efficacy.

1. “Upgrading and development of waste water collection and treatment facilities , river embankment rehabilitation ”
Substantial

Outputs (ICR, Data Sheet, Section F. Results Framework)

(a) 90.7% of population connected to waste water treatment plants (target 85%)
(b) Treated 239.6 million cubic m/year of waste water (target 226 million cubic m/year)
(c) 91.9% waste water treated in cities/counties (target 80%)
(d) 37,125 ton of Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)/year reaching the recipient rivers (target 28,000)

Outcome
(a) The civil works financed by the project have improved waste water collection and treatment, and improved water
quality of river systems which contributed to a better environment in project towns (ICR, page 8, Section 3.2)

(b) Overall citizen satisfaction with waste water services stood at 94.8% at project closure (ICR, page 8, Section 3.2)

2. “Upgrading and development of water supply improvements "
Substantial

Outputs (ICR, Data Sheet, Section F: Results Framework)
(a) 99% of population with access to water supply (target 91%)
(b) Provincial regulations prohibiting the use of groundwater in urban areas were passed

Outcome

(a) Groundwater abstraction, compared to total water production, dropped from 85% at project start to zero at the
project's close, following provincial regulations prohibiting the use of groundwater in urban areas. Over 730,000
people received improved water supply, including 340,000 people in fluoride-affected areas.

(b) The citizen satisfaction level in the final survey was 99% for water supply (ICR, Section 3.2, page 8).

3. “Upgrading and development solid waste management ”
Substantial

Outputs (ICR, Data Sheet, Section F: Results Framework)
(a) 351,660 tons/year of municipal waste collected and transferred to a sanitary landfill (target 78%)
(b) 95% of population provided with solid waste services closure (target 100%)

Outcome

The citizen satisfaction with solid waste services reached 98% at project closure. (ICR, Section 3.2, page 8)

4.“Enhancement of the financial performance and efficiency of key urban environmental service agencies ”
Modest

Output
Not available

Outcome

Though some of the utility companies were provided with funds by the government to meet operating costs, the cost
recovery ratio in some instances was at or close to 1.0 because the subsidies did not allow companies to generate
cash in excess of their own needs. The cost recovery ratio for Weihai, Yantai and Gaomi waste water companies was
0.46, 1.07 and 1.5 respectively, for Rizaho solid waste company it was 0.55 and for Gaomi water it was 1.23. (ICR,
Data Sheet, Intermediate Outcome Indicator No. 8)

GEF Grant

The Global Environment Objective for the GEF grant was to “reduce land-based pollution along the Yantai coast and
the Bohai Sea through development of a pilot septic-tank management system in Yantai and dissemination of the
Yantai model in Shandong Province and in other parts of China”. Two sub-objectives in this GEO were evaluated.

1.“Reduce land-based pollution along the Yantai coast and the Bohai Sea through development of a pilot septic -tank
management system ”
Modest

Output

Pollution discharge to the Bohai Sea was reduced by 806.4 biochemical oxygen demand per year (BOD ton/year)

    - Based on corrections in the number (1,056 rather than 1,700) and average volume of septic tanks (24 cubic
    meter instead of 44 cubic meter) in the Pilot Area, the comments section on Intermediate Outcome Indicator No.
    1 for the GEO in the Data Sheet of the ICR states that the estimated achievement of 806.4 BOD ton/year was in
    line with the original BOD target of 1,700 tons/year. Hence this indicator was achieved.

Outcome

(a) Introduction of a lower cost technology for septic tank management; (ii) introduction of a culture of regular periodic
emptying of septic tanks

(b) Establishment of permanent institutional arrangements for septic tank management in Yantai, including
development of a GIS-based information management system to track and monitor tanker routes, operational data,
and the frequency of emptying septic tanks (page 9, ICR).

2. “Dissemination of the Yantai model in Shandong Province and in other parts of China”
Negligible

Output

The type and number of outputs of dissemination interventions were not recorded

Outcome

Commencement of a discussion on septic tank design, and changes to building code requirements for septic tanks in
Shandong Provincial Government (page 9, ICR).


5. Efficiency:
 Modest
Economic and Financial Efficiency
According to Section 3.3 and Annex 3 of the ICR, economic analysis of the project at appraisal and closure was done
on a component by component basis for waste-water, water supply and solid waste components. At appraisal, a Cost
Effective Analysis guided the selection of priority interventions for the project using least cost methodology.
Alternative project designs were identified and evaluated in order to select the least cost investments for the project.
The least cost methodology was applied for three project components and included financial comparison of the
alternatives based on capital investments and cost for operation and maintenance (O&M). The benefit/cost analysis
of the project's components was done by analyzing net present value (NPV) and the economic internal rate of return
(ERR).

End of project analysis was also carried out by assessing the economic return of waste-water, water and solid waste
components on individual basis. The methodology followed an incremental approach to estimate "plusses and
minuses" to the economic rate of return as a result of project changes during implementation. The resulting rates of
return for the waste water and river improvement program (Component 1) ranged from 12.7% to 20.2% although
estimates were acknowledged to be "rough" (ICR, Annex 3, Table 1.2). For the water supply program (Component 3)
the economic rate of return was estimated at 8-10%. The ICR asserted that overall "the results showed returns above
15% (page 9).

According to Annex 3 of the ICR, financial analysis was carried out at appraisal to determine cost recovery tariffs.
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) analysis was not carried out at closure, as most of the components were not-
revenue generating. Given the scenario, tariff analysis and comparison of utility tariff with the overall economic
development were undertaken. Analysis of the tariff increases reflects affordability by low-income households.
Comparison of the utility tariff revisions with the overall economic development indicates that these were fully
affordable to the beneficiary population.

Administrative Efficiency
The project reflected strong SPG ownership and was administered by Shandong Provincial Project Management
Office (SPPMO). SPPMO had not only long experience in the field, but also in implementing Bank financed projects.
These factors enabled: (i) strict follow through of environmental management policies and framework; (ii) problem-free
procurement performance in compliance with the Bank policies; and (iii) incorporation of SPG priorities, social and
environmental targets and achievable project covenants.

The readiness for implementation was demonstrated by the completion of detailed designs and bid documents for the
first years’ implementation. This facilitated early completion of the components in Weihai, Gaomi, Yantai, Heze and
Rizhao counties in 2010 and 2011, two years before the Loan closing date. The Yantai Municipality established
permanent Office for Septic Tank Management was another factor that was instrumental to formulate and implement
the GEF supported pilot septic tank management system despite the bottlenecks (e.g. incorrect baseline data;
procurement and registration of foreign manufactured septic tank emptying vehicles; and challenges in emptying
septic with highly consolidated settled solids).

Location of the Task Team Leader, procurement, financial management and safeguard specialists in the country
office also contributed to the facilitation and early resolution of issues facing the project.

However, notwithstanding the relatively effective implementation and the likely high social returns from the project, the
data on which the estimated economic rates of return were based were weak and incomplete. Hence there are valid
doubts about the project's overall efficiency and it is therefore rated as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives and design for the NAIP are rated, respectively, substantial and modest. With regard
to the efficacy rating for NAIP, IEG agrees with the ICR that, while many of the project's targets were exceeded,
several indicators had unclear linkage to the project activities, definition and monitoring method, causing difficulties in
verifying achievements (ICR, page 10, Section 3.4). Nevertheless, the achievements of sub-objectives that focused
on (a) waste water collection and treatment facilities, river embankment rehabilitation; (b) water supply improvements;
and (c) solid waste management were rated as substantial. On the other hand, the enhancement of the financial
performance and efficiency of key urban environmental service agencies was rated as modest. Given that the
project's estimated rates of return were based on assumptions rather than observed results, efficiency was rated as
modest. Overall, therefore the project had moderate shortcomings and was rated by this review as moderately
satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Risk related to political, government and stakeholder ownership, institutional support, social and natural
disaster/exposure is relevant to the intervention and is noted to be low. While they are well detailed in the ICR, IEG
considered some critical factors to determine the risk rating of the project. They are: (i) strong Shandong Provincial
Government (SPG) and community ownership: (ii) Shandong Province environmental management strategy was
synchronized with the PDO; (iii) SPG support in autonomy of utility companies; and (iii) securing of the outfall pipeline
in Yantai at the sea bed reducing the risk from natural disasters such as typhoons and earthquake and other
repercussions of climate change.

With regard to the GEO, Yantai Municipality has established a dedicated permanent office (Septic Tank Management
Office), with staff and annual budget allocations, and plans to expand the operation city wide (ICR) . The septic tank
management system is also likely to be replicated in other municipalities in China.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The PDO and GEO were substantially relevant to address the critical issues in Borrower’s environmental
needs and management strategy. They were consistent with the goals of Country Partnership Strategy. The
design and the implementation arrangements were appropriate to achieve the outcomes on least cost basis. The
goals set out for sector development were realistic, particularly in the waste water sector where a phased
development approach was adopted for cost recovery.

The Bank task team reviewed and analyzed national and Bank policies to ensure informed project preparation.
Specifically, the Bank team examined: (i) national policies and guidelines, past experience of similar projects in
China, and background conditions in the Province; and (ii) World Bank policies, practices and lessons from
experience. The Bank also guaranteed that the client was well informed on the background information by
agreeing on a terms of reference (ToR) for preparation of the project feasibility studies. The ToR required the
client to collect and analyze background information in a comprehensive manner.

The Bank team comprised a sound skill mix of technical staff and was headed by a Chinese speaking senior
urban specialist. Many of the key team members were based in Beijing and/or were Chinese speaking. This
facilitated effective communication between the client and the Bank. The project was prepared in about one and a
half years from Concept Review in October 2005 to Board approval in February 2007, at a cost of US$502,000.

With regard to social safeguards, resettlement action plans were developed in consultation with affected persons
(AP), and publicly disclosed, complying with World Bank policies and procedures. In terms of environment
safeguards, the project triggered Bank’s Operational Policy 4.01 and was designated as Category A . The
Environment Assessment and Environment Management Plans were prepared according to national policies and
regulations and the Bank's safeguard policies and were disclosed.

The project design fell short in a few areas. The performance indicators in the results matrix were poorly
designed, with unclear linkages to project activities and targets. The baseline data was inadequate. For instance
the baseline data of the Pilot Area of the GEF Component was a major weakness at entry. The original baseline
data on the number and estimated volumes of septic tanks under the GEF Component in the pilot area in Yantai
were found to be incorrect when tank emptying commenced. The number of septic tanks was found to be 1,056,
                                                                                        3
instead of 1,700, and the average volume of a septic tank was found to be about 24 m , instead of the figure of 44
  3
m estimated during the baseline survey.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank was responsive and actively engaged with the Borrower during project implementation. For instance,
Zhoucun county was selected and was included into the project in a timely manner when Huantai county was
removed from Components 1 and 2. This contributed toward enabling achievement of the project outcome. The
Bank worked very closely with the Borrower and provided a number of recommendations for utilizing the loan
savings for waste water in the Weifang municipality, though these attempts failed due to disagreements between
relevant stakeholders within Shandong Province and was finally cancelled. The Bank proposed changes to
several results indicators which had weak linkages to the project, but was unable to revise these, partly due to the
failed attempt to carry out the restructuring. The Bank worked closely with Yantai Municipality to accelerate the
slow implementation of the GEF supported septic tank management component and succeeded in enabling the
establishment of a permanent Office for Septic Tank Management, despite the bottlenecks (eg: incorrect baseline
data; procurement and registration of foreign -manufactured septic tank emptying vehicles; and challenges of
emptying septic with highly consolidated settled solid). Overall, the Bank team identified and addressed
implementation issues in a timely manner..

Formal Bank supervision of the project was held twice a year. Supervision team with adequate skills mix benefited
from the Bank Headquarters, expert guidance - particularly on the septic tank management component. Mid-term
review mission was held timely in March/April 2009. The mission: (i) agreed to substitute Huantai with Zhoucun
county from the same municipality; and (ii) recognized the need to correct a drafting error in the disbursement
percentage for civil works in the Loan Agreement in Zaozhuang county. As such, the project was restructured in
January 2010 to implement the findings of the mid-term review.

It should be pointed out, however, that the summary of the Borrower's ICR expressed concern about "frustrating
delays in obtaining some “no objections” where there was no obvious reason for any delay. From the
governments perspective there could also have been more flexibility shown by the Bank in dealing with the
changes proposed in Weifang, leading to a lost opportunity to fully utilize the loan" (ICR, Annex 8, page 49).
Annex 8 noted the "lack of a scientifically prepared proposal, acceptable to the Bank, from the Weifang
Government to justify its plans as an alternative means of achieving the project's PDO" (ICR, page 50).

The social specialist assigned to the project joined all formal supervision missions and carefully supervised
implementation of the resettlement action plans (RAPs). The location of the task team leader and the technical
specialist staff in the country office helped to maintain frequent contact and support to the Borrower and was cost
effective. The average annual supervision budget of US$60,000 was recorded as sufficient to monitor progress
and provide guidance. (ICR, page 12)


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Shandong Provincial Government (SPG) was fully committed to the PDO and ensured timely supply of
counterpart funds. SPG maintained its strong environmental management agenda and provided high quality
project management in project cities/counties.

SPG remained committed to sustainability of the development outcome by advocating full cost recovery, and
setting guidelines for minimum waste water and solid waste tariffs to be adopted by municipal governments.

In addition, SPG continued to pursue industrial pollution control, online monitoring of industries; and water
conservation through regulatory measures to limit use of groundwater and re-use of treated waste water.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The strong track record of Shandong Provincial Project Management Office (SPPMO) to manage project
preparation and coordinate project activities with close attention to social and environmental safeguards provided
a sound platform for project implementation.

Implementing agencies in the project counties: (a) prepared detailed designs, (b) managed procurement and
contracts, and (c) provided quality control, and effective financial management. During implementation,
implementing agencies in the project counties were in compliance with the financial and safeguard performance
covenants. With regard to GEF intervention, the Yantai Septic Tank Management Office was established as part
of the project, with a plan to gradually expand its emptying activities to cover the 19,000 septic tanks in the
municipality. The project closed on schedule on 12/31/2013.

However, there were some shortcomings,. While some implementing agencies completed their components in
about three years from project start, two project cities completed implementation only in 2013 largely due to the
slow pace of land acquisition and resettlement. In addition, Weifeng municipality was not able to come up with a
satisfactory proposal to use its savings before the Loan closing date. This left a large loan balance of about US$
11 M not disbursed and was canceled at project closure. Qixia county was not able to utilize the completed waste
water treatment facility because of inadequate waste water flows. According to the ICR (page 13), this facility will
be put into operation only by the middle of 2014.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The design of several indicators was weak in terms of definition, link to project activities and monitoring methods
and targets. For instance: (i) improvement of river water quality (from Class V to Class IV) was indicated in kilometers
with no explanation of how to measure; (ii) inclusion of a performance indicator for non-revenue water, even though
the project did not finance this activity; (iii) misalignment of the cost recovery ratio (Intermediate Outcome Indicator
No. 8); and (iv) incorrect baseline data on the number and volume of septic tanks for the GEF component indicator,
which inflated the indicator targets for pollution discharge to the Bohai Sea, and no baseline indicators by sector and
by municipality.

According to the ICR, more accurate measurement in improvement of environmental conditions would have been
possible had the Results Framework set baseline indicators by sector and by municipality.

b. M&E Implementation:
  The Shandong Provincial Project Management Office (SPPMO) gathered timely information on various indicators
of the Project. The reports were reliable, sound in quality and timely according the ICR (ICR, page 5)

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Monitoring and evaluation information was used by the project cities, SPPMO and the Bank to support decisions on
any change to components. The Environment Protection Bureau utilized the results of online monitoring to apply
sanctions on industries to ensure compliance, including imposition of fines and suspension of operations.

The inaccuracies in the baseline data on the number and volume of septic tanks in Yantai was noted only after the
procurement and deployment of the septic tank emptying equipment. However the extent to which the Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD) reduction data were used is not reported. Proposals to revise problematic indicators were
developed after the mid-term review, but they were not acted upon because it was too late into project
implementation.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Social Safeguards. The project triggered the Bank’s operational policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement Action
Plans were prepared, in consultation with affected persons (AP), and publicly disclosed, complying with World Bank
policies and procedures. During implementation, resettlement activities were carried out satisfactorily, except in Qixia
and Zaozhuang counties, due to the slow pace of land acquisition and resettlement. External monitoring of safeguard
implementation was carried out by the Shandong Construction Development and Research Institute, in accordance
with the requirements of the legal agreements. Implementing units regularly submitted annual safeguard compliance
reports. The Resettlement Completion Report (RCR) indicates that resettlement implementation was successfully
completed with the full participation of the affected persons (Ref: ICR page 6) .

Environmental Safeguards. The project triggered Bank’s Operational Policy 4.01 and was designated as Category A.
The Environment Assessment and Environment Management Plan (EMP) were prepared according to national
policies and regulations and the Bank safeguard policies. The EMP was implemented satisfactorily by SPPMO. As
part of the January 2010 restructuring, the Bank conducted an environmental survey of the newly proposed waste
water collection component in Zhoucun, and based on the nature and potential impacts of the component, it would
be classified as Category “B”. An additional EA and EMP were prepared by the borrower and reviewed by the Bank.
The final drafts were disclosed locally and in the Info shop on December 10, 2009.

Dam Safety. The project also triggered the Bank’s operational policy on Safety of Dams (OP 4.37) and is noted to be
in compliance. This included satisfactorily meeting dam safety requirements and completing remedial works.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement
Procurement activities were carried out by all project cities in full compliance with Bank procurement procedures. No
particular issues or problems are reported in the ICR.

Financial Management
Financial management performance, including accounting, budgeting, internal control, funds flow, financial reporting
and auditing, were carried out with no reporting of problems or issues. Audit compliance is noted without any audit
qualifications


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR mentions that he completed waste water treatment plant (WWTP) in Qixia county was not utilized. This
prompted an acceleration of the Qixia county’s plan to relocate the existing WWTP within the city, and realize the
opportunity cost of the land currently occupied by it (page 11).

The ICR also states that "The project had no specific interventions on poverty reduction, and gender issues.
However, it did improve the living environment for the broader population in the project cities, including women and
the poor who benefited from improved water supply, better sanitation services, and improved opportunities for income
enhancement from the extensive construction activities.
However, Annex 8 (based on the Borrower's ICR) states that "Achievements in poverty alleviation and social benefits
included, inter alia: (i) significant local temporary job opportunities and over 200 new permanent jobs in O&M; (ii)
health benefits to a population of 730,000, including 340,000 in fluoride-affected areas; (iii) public health and amenity
benefits from improved flood control; (iv) extending solid waste collection and closure of unsanitary refuse dumps; (v)
increased waste water collection and treatment; and (v) equal access to services by the poor and vulnerable people
including improved affordability.

d. Other:
NA


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately          Design fell short in two areas. The
                                                            Satisfactory        performance indicators in the results
                                                                                matrix were poorly designed, with
                                                                                unclear linkages to project activities and
                                                                                targets. In addition the baseline data
                                                                                were inadequate. For instance, the
                                                                                baseline data for the GEF financed Pilot
                                                                                septic tank management system was a
                                                                                major weakness at entry.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          There were shortcomings in the
                                                            Satisfactory        performance of the Implementing
                                                                                Agency as follows. Two project cities
                                                                                completed implementation only in 2013
                                                                                largely due to the slow pace of land
                                                                                acquisition and resettlement. Weifeng
                                                                                municipality was not able to come up
                                                                                with a satisfactory proposal to use its
                                                                                savings before the Loan closing date.
                                                                                This left a large loan balance of about
                                                                                US$11 M not disbursed and was
                                                                                canceled at project closure. Qixia
                                                                                county was not able to utilize the
                                                                                completed waste water treatment
                                                                                facility because of lower then expected
                                                                                waste water flows
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR drew five lessons from the project. However some of them were more in the nature of conclusions. The
following lessons had implications for similar operations

(a) Accurate assessment of growth of supply driven economic development zones (EDZ) is essential when
planning for investments in these zones . Investments plans based on inaccurate assessments of growth can incur
costs to both EDZ and the planned investments. In the case of this project, EDZs established without the right
underlying economic drivers, had slow starts such as in Qixia. Waste water investments planned in Qixia on the
basis of weak assessment of growth and government regulations without a contingency plan resulted in non-
commission of these investments at closure

(b) Septic tank emptying interventions should be supported by exit policies to allow for a smooth transition . The
experience and knowledge gained from implementing the septic tank management component demonstrates the
need for regular septic tank emptying and their limited use when cities are fully compliant with a sewer system. As
such these interventions should be supported by exit policies to allow for a smooth transition from septic tanks to
sewerage.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is candid and follows the OPCS guidelines in format. It provided a thorough description of the project
implementation and includes a good summary of the Borrower ICR. The extensive report of project investments gave
the reader a good idea of the project activities and explained the triggers for speeding and delaying implementation.
Stakeholders are well defined and the draft endorses their participation in various segments of the project cycle. ICR
provided adequate reporting on social, environment and fiduciary compliance. On the other hand the analysis of
efficiency was weak because of the use of assumed data instead of observed results.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
