Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 22500
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
INTEGRATED DRUG PREVENTION PILOT PROJECT (LIL)
[Ln. 44720-AR]
June 17, 2002
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Current Unit      =     Argentine Peso
US$1.00        =      1 peso
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GoA                     Government of Argentina
PCN                     Project Completion Note
PIU                     Project Implementation Unit
Vice President:               David de Ferranti
Country Unit Director:        Myma Alexander
Country Sector Leader:        Ariel Fiszbein
Task Manager:                 Hideki Mori



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
INTEGRATED DRUG PREVENTION PILOT PROJECT (LIL: LOAN 4472-AR)
1.    This is the Project Completion Note for the Argentina Integrated Drug Prevention Pilot
Project (LIEL: Loan 4472-AR). The Project was approved by the Regional Vice President of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Region on April 30, 1999. The Loan was cancelled at the
request of the Government of Argentina as of December 14, 2000. This note is in lieu of an
Implementation Completion Report reflecting the fact that the cancellation took place before
meaningful project implementation.
2.    Total project costs were estimated at US$6.85 million, including US$4.75 million to be
financed by the Loan. Except for the 1% front-end-fee (US$47,500), no disbursement was made
from the Loan.
3.    The main objective of the project was to test the applicability of a multisectoral drug
prevention strategy in the Argentine context. As the nature and degree of drug abuse in
Argentina did not appear to be as serious as in other countries, the Government's primary
interests were to: (i) obtain a more accurate picture of drug use in Argentina; and (ii) prevent its
citizens from becoming drug users. In addition, the project was expected to help the
Government determine the need and the framework for a larger drug-prevention project.
4.    The Project would have consisted of two main components: (i) Participatory Approaches
to Drug Prevention which had been designed to: (a) promote local solutions to drug use in
selected municipalities on a pilot basis via training local community members and sector
professionals; (b) train youth leaders; and (c) finance the implementation of the municipal plans
for drug prevention; and (ii) Information Systems, Monitoring and Evaluation, which had been
designed to: (a) establish the network that would facilitate generation and exchange of
information relevant to drug prevention, as well as carry out the monitoring and evaluation of the
project itself via a survey-based epidemiological study to obtain information on drug
consumption patterns; (b) develop prevention methods and training modules that would be
disseminated via national, regional, and provincial workshops; (c) create a network of
monitoring centers to strengthen existing institutions focused on drug prevention; and (d)
monitor and evaluate overall project implementation processes.
5.    Due to the Govemment's delay in issuing the Presidential Decree 455/99 required for
loan signing, the Loan became effective in February 2000, nine months after the approval by the
Bank. A presidential election, which took place during this period, left the Federal budget
discussion for the Govemment's Fiscal Year 2000 incomplete, seriously affecting a number of



activities including this project. The new Administration no longer considered this project a
priority, replaced the initial PIU in March 2000, and did not assemble the successor until the end
of April 2000. Furthermore, it took the new Administration a few additional months to
familiarize itself with the Bank portfolio. As a result, project launch was delayed by over a year.
6.    A Bank mission visited Argentina during the week of June 19-23, 2000. During the visit,
the Government and the mission reviewed the budget situation for the years 2000 and 2001,
reconfirmed the project objectives, and agreed on a revised project implementation framework as
well as an action plan for the following six month period.
7.    Following the mission, the PIU proceeded with the implementation of the action plan.
Unfortunately, however, the Government later came to a decision to cancel the project and
submitted the Bank a request for Loan cancellation. The primary reasons for the cancellation
request were budgetary constraints due to the ongoing fiscal crisis and the shifting of priorities
by the new Administration.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.






r-   IMAGING-    -- --
Report No.:          22500
Type:      PCN



