Report No. PID7377
Project Name                     Argentina-Integrated Drug-Addiction...
Prevention Pilot Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           SA - Social Assistance
Project                          ARPE58526
Borrower(s)                      The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Secretaria de Programacion para la
Prevencion de Drogadiccion y Lucha
contra el Narcotrafico
(SEDRONAR)
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 4, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         February 14, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 31, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Drug Prevention: The GoA's first formal actions toward drug abuse addressed
legal issues. In 1974, a law was passed regarding drug possession for
personal use, which coincided with other legal, law enforcement efforts
against activities seen as deviant or subversive. In 1982, Argentina's
Federal Penitentiary Service established the Centro de Recuperacion de
Toxicomanos in a Buenos Aires prison for the rehabilitation and treatment of
those violating drug laws. At the same time, on a national level, the Centro
Nacional de Reeducacion Social (CENARESO) was the first public organization
responsible for rehabilitation and treatment of drug users. During the mid-
1980s, many governmental and non-governmental organizations were created to
address the same issues, and provide similar services.
In 1985 the Comision Nacional para el Control del Narcotrafico y el Abuso de
Drogas was created, representing the first national organization for the
design of prevention strategies and policies. Drug prevention activities were
augmented when Argentina became a party to the 1988 UN Convention Against
Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances, joining the
international community's efforts against drug abuse. In 1989, major anti-
narcotics legislation was passed to enact the commitments of the UN
Convention. The legal repercussions of drug use were changed to provide
treatment and community-based alternatives to prison. Regarding government
organization, the SecretarUa de Programacion para la Prevencion de la
Drogadiccion y la Lucha contra el Narcotrafico (SEDRONAR) was formed, which
replaced the Comision Nacional. SEDRONAR is responsible for coordinating all
counternarcotics activities, including drug prevention and treatment programs,
as well as participation in international meetings on global anti-drug
efforts.
In 1996, the Government published a federal plan to combat illegal drugs,
making SEDRONAR responsible for identifying the extent of the narcotics
problem, and drafting a plan to address the problems. Activities have taken



place with coordination between the federal and provincial levels.
Drug Use: One of the main challenges is the lack of information on the nature
and extent of drug abuse in Argentina. Through studies conducted to date, it
appears that the rate of drug abuse is not out of control (it is estimated
that one percent of the population uses drugs), but that without proper
attention the situation may intensify. Using information available, it is
possible to recognize some trends in drug abuse in Argentina. Research in
1996 in the Province of Buenos Aires shows that in two poor neighborhoods,
14.4w of the population uses cocaine.    If youths fifteen years old and above
are included in the sample, the rate of cocaine use rises to 21.7w, or about 6
cases per block.   Cocaine is the drug of choice for about 81t of Argentina's
drug users, and one study found that about three percent of students in the
Province of Buenos Aires had tried cocaine.
In Argentina, as in many countries, drug prevention activities should pay
close attention to young people. Although national data is scarce, most
experts agree that the group with the highest prevalence of drug use is young
people from 10-30 years old. According to the 1991 census, 25.3w of the total
population is between 14 and 29 years old, indicating that a major portion of
the population is a high-risk group. Between 1995 and 1996, the average age
of initiating cocaine use dropped from 16 to 14. Prompt and appropriate
action is necessary to ensure that this trend does not continue. Drug users
in the 15-20 year range often use drugs on an irregular, non-intensive basis;
regular, or intensive use is evident in the 20-30 age bracket. Since the
average age for beginning treatment is 23 years of age, early intervention is
desirable to prevent progression to the stages at which there is more intense
use of drugs.
It has been shown that there is increased vulnerability for the unemployed and
the poor. The unemployment rate for those between 15 and 19 years of age is
three times higher than the national average.
Intravenous drug use continues to be a problem in Argentina, where the number
of registered IV drug users has not decreased substantially (900 to 831 cases)
from 1994 to 1996. The association between IV drug use and the spread of
HIV/AIDS adds to the urgency.
2. Objectives
The primary objective of the proposed LIL Project is to assess and verify
the effectiveness of participatory management for drug prevention. The
lessons gained from the experience of implementing the LIL would serve as a
basis to determine the need for a larger drug-prevention project, and to
design such a project.
On the other hand, the project is NOT expected to support supply
reduction related activities including: (i) the control of production and
transportation of illicit drugs; and (ii) investigation and prosecution of
drug dealers and users.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has supported a wide range of projects and analytical work in
Argentina and the rest of the world in health, education and social
development. Some of them has a small component or lines of actions geared
toward drug-prevention. Although this would be the first time for the Bank to
finance a comprehensive drug-prevention project, the Bank has strategically
-2 -



situated to transfer useful knowledge and experience to Argentina.
4. Description
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               2.0
IBRD                     5.0
IDA                      0.0
Total Project Cost       7.0
6. Implementation
The project would be managed by a small project implementation unit
(PIU), the Subsecretariat for Prevention and Assistance (SubsecretarUa de
Prevencion y Asistencia), under the Secretariat for the Programming for the
Prevention of Drug-Addiction and Fight against Drug Trafficking (SEDRONAR -
SecretarUa de Programacion para la Prevencion de la Drogadiccion y la Lucha
contra el Narcotrafico).
7. Sustainability
Per LIL procedures, sustainability of learning would be tracked through the
monitoring of performance indicators. Fiscal sustainability would be analyzed
during project implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience and research on drug-prevention in European countries and the
US suggests the following. First, It is essential to include not only illicit
drugs but also other substances such as alcohol and tobacco in any discussion
of prevention.
Second, considering the complexity of the paths that lead towards drug
use and abuse indicate the necessity of broad-based prevention strategies
towards: (i) increasing knowledge about drugs and their effects; (ii) changing
attitudes towards drugs and other deviant behaviors; (iii) decreasing or
stopping the use of drugs; (iv) enhancing refusal, social and life skills; and
(v) decreasing negative behaviors.
Third, different age groups appear to benefit different strategies. Most
effective for children aged 12-14 seem to be strategies that stress
interpersonal and refusal skills, and allow them to have the necessary time to
practice using these skills. Also effective would be the provision of
information about the peer/social pressures to use drugs. For older children,
successful programs appear to include more structured, drug-focused sessions.
Argentina has successfully implemented a number of participatory
community based projects in recent years (e.g. FOPAR - Participatory Social
Investment Fund; Programa Juvenil; LUSIDA - AIDS/STD Prevention Project,
etc.). Many of the design features of those projects, including the
establishment of municipal/provincial council, local action plans and funding
of small-scale demand-driven community subprojects are incorporated into the
proposed project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     No
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
-3 -



Issues         No negative environmental impact is expected.    There
will be no resettlements nor bias against indigenous populations.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager
Hideki Mori
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1571
Fax: 202-522-1202
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 26, 1999.
- 4 -



