Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4472-AR
Loan Agreement
(Integrated Drug Prevention Pilot Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 29, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4472-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1999, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Paragraph (c) of section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
Page  2
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Consultative Municipal Council" means the council to be established in a 
Participating Municipality in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Grants" means grants made by SEDRONAR (as hereinafter defined) to a 
Participating Municipality (as hereinafter defined), for the financing of Subprojects 
(as hereinafter defined) detailed under Part. 2 (b) of the Project;
(c)
"INPA" means Intervención Participativa, the Borrower’s program of 
participatory activities for drug prevention detailed under Part A of the Project;
(d)
"Monitoring Center" means an institution within a Participating 
Municipality (as hereinafter defined), which is eligible for participation in the SIME 
Monitoring Network (as hereinafter defined), in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
"Municipality" means a political subdivision (municipio) of a Province 
(as hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Municipal Framework Agreement" means Carta de Adhesión Municipal, the 
agreement referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
"Municipal Plan" means the plan for drug prevention to be prepared by a 
Consultative Municipal Council in a Participating Municipality, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the implementation of the 
Project referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Participating Municipality" means a municipality selected by SEDRONAR to 
participate in the Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Participating Province" means each of the Provinces (as hereinafter 
defined) selected by SEDRONAR to participate in the Project, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Province" means a political subdivision (provincia) of the Borrower;
(m)
"Provincial Framework Agreement" means Carta de Adhesión Provincial, the 
agreement referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(n)
"Project Implementation Unit" means the unit to be established by the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(o)
"SEDRONAR" means Secretaría de Programación para la Prevención de la 
Drogadicción y la Lucha contra el Narcotráfico, the Borrower’s Secretariat responsible 
for the coordination and implementation of drug prevention programs established by  
Presidential Decree No. 271 of July 17, 1989, of the Borrower, as amended, or any 
successor or successors thereto;
(p)
"SIME" means Sistema de Información, Monitoreo y Evaluación en 
Adicciones, the system for information, monitoring and evaluation of drug prevention 
programs of the Borrower detailed under Part B of the Project;
Page  3
(q)
"SIME Monitoring Network" means the network for the exchange of voluntary 
information among Monitoring Centers detailed under Part B.3 of the Project;
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(s)
"Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Part A.2 (b) of the 
Project for the implementation of a Municipal Plan in a Participating Municipality, 
which will require acquisition of goods and capacity building interventions; and
(t)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means Convenio de Transferencia, the agreement 
referred to in paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
million seven hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($4,750,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) Grants; (ii) the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (iii) in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of 
forty-seven thousand five hundred Dollars ($47,500). On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
Page  4
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through SEDRONAR, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, 
public health and community participation practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with:
(i)
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
an operational manual (the Operational Manual) acceptable to the 
Bank, said manual to include, inter alia,: (A) the criteria and 
procedures for the selection of Participating Provinces and 
Participating Municipalities; (B) the criteria and procedures for 
the selection of Monitoring Centers; (C) the criteria and 
procedures for the preparation, review, approval and 
implementation of Subprojects; (D) the procurement and contracting 
procedures applicable to goods and consultants' services procured 
by Participating Municipalities under the Subprojects; (E) the 
terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for staff 
responsible for Project management, coordination and monitoring 
and evaluation, at the national, provincial and municipal levels; 
(F) the terms and conditions of the Provincial Framework 
Agreements, Municipal Framework Agreements and Subsidiary 
Agreements. Except as the Borrower, through SEDRONAR, and the Bank 
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, suspend, 
abrogate or waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Operational 
Manual or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (b) Grants shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, through SEDRONAR:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project, including the Subprojects, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, and shall by May 31 and November 30 of each year of Project 
execution, provide the Bank with semi-annual progress reports on the execution of the 
Project, including the Subprojects, in a format acceptable to the Bank, and including 
the Monitoring Indicators referred to above;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank by not later than September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, including the 
Subprojects, during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project, including 
the Subprojects, and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank by December 15, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall: (a) by not later than 
December 31, 1999, procure specialized consultants’ services under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions Section II of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, for the carrying out of an annual independent procurement and 
financial audit of the Municipal Plans approved for financing under the Project;
(b)
by not later than June 30 of each year of Project execution, carry out 
the audits referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, furnish the reports of such audits to the Bank, for 
its review and comments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall:
(a)
establish within the Subsecretariat for Prevention and Assistance of 
SEDRONAR, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a unit (the 
Project Implementation Unit) for the overall management, financial administration, and 
monitoring of the Project with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; 
and
(b)
ensure that the Project Implementation Unit is headed, at all times 
during the execution of the Project, by a full-time general coordinator (the General 
Coordinator) with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, and is further 
staffed with key staff, including two technical supervisors (the  INPA Technical 
Supervisor and the SIME Technical Supervisor), and an administrative supervisor (the 
Administrative Supervisor), and such other personnel with functions, responsibilities, 
qualifications and experience as may be required for the proper implementation of the 
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  6
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely, that that Presidential Decree No. 271 of July 
17, 1989 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SEDRONAR to perform any 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank and adopted by 
SEDRONAR; and
(b)
the Project Implementation Unit has been established and the General 
Coordinator, the INPA Technical Supervisor, the SIME Technical Supervisor, and the 
Administrative Supervisor have been appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  7
Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02.  The date of February 29, 2000 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y
Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5o piso
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950AR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Rogelio Frigerio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Page  8
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other
   70,000
100% of foreign
than for
expenditures, 100%
Subprojects)
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
3,932,500
100%
Services
(3)
Grants 
  400,000
35% of amounts
disbursed
(4)
Project
  300,000
100%
Implementation
(5)
Fee
   47,500
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
      4,750,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "Project Implementation" means the cost of: (i) services 
rendered by public utilities; (ii) communications; (iii) domestic travel and per diem 
for provincial technical supervisors and the staff of the Project Implementation Unit; 
and (iv) office supplies and other materials directly related to the implementation of 
the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $475,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after December 1, 1998; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) the Bank has approved the first 
of the Municipal Plans for the corresponding Participating Municipality; and (ii) the 
Borrower, through SEDRONAR, has furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that: (A) the Consultative Municipal Council has been established within the 
corresponding Participating Municipality, and its key members have been appointed; (B) 
the Provincial Framework Agreement has been entered into between SEDRONAR and the 
corresponding Participating Province; (C) the Municipal Framework Agreement has been 
entered into between SEDRONAR and the corresponding Participating Municipality; (D) 
the Municipal Plan for the corresponding Participating Municipality has been approved 
by SEDRONAR; and (E) the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered between SEDRONAR and 
the corresponding Participating Municipality.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures for: (a) Grants, with the exception of 
the first Municipal Plan to be approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 3 (b) (i) of this Schedule; (b) goods; (c) Project implementation; and (d) 
consultants’ services procured under contracts not subject to prior review under the 
provisions of paragraph 2 of Part D of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) testing the 
applicability and participatory management of a multisectoral drug prevention 
strategy; and (b) improving the availability and quality of information related to 
drug prevention programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Participatory Approaches to Drug Prevention (INPA)
1. 
Institutional strengthening of Participating Municipalities and community 
organizations for the development of participatory solutions to drug use, through:
(a)
the provision of training to local community members and sector 
professionals in drug prevention methodology, organizational and communication skills, 
and strategic planning skills; and
(b)
the provision of training to local youths in communication skills and 
other skills for the development of drug prevention initiatives at the community 
level.
2.
(a)
Development of pilot Municipal Plans for drug prevention in the 
Participating Municipalities, through the provision of technical assistance and 
training to the Consultative Municipal Councils.
(b)
Provision of financing, on a grant basis, of small-scale projects for the 
implementation of Municipal Plans in the Participating Municipalities.
3.
Strengthening the coordination of drug prevention activities at the national, 
provincial, and municipal levels, through the provision of technical assistance to the 
Participating Provinces to improve their technical supervision capacity.
Part B:
Information System, Monitoring and Evaluation (SIME)
Strengthening the Borrower’s system for information, monitoring evaluation of 
drug use patterns through:
1.
the carrying out of a nation-wide survey of drug consumption patterns;
2.
the development and dissemination of effective community-based drug prevention 
methods, and the design of municipal training modules, through the provision of 
technical assistance to SEDRONAR;
3.
the development and implementation, on a pilot basis, of the SIME Monitoring 
Network for the voluntary exchange of information and best practices on drug use 
patterns, through the provision of technical assistance, training, and computer 
software to the Monitoring Centers; and
4.
the establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation of Project 
implementation, through the provision of technical assistance to SEDRONAR and the 
Participating Municipalities.
Part C:
Project Management
Strengthening the project management capacity of  SEDRONAR, through the 
provision of operational support to the Project Implementation Unit.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal 
Page  10
December 15, 2002
145,000 
June 15, 2003
145,000 
December 15, 2003
150,000 
June 15, 2004
155,000 
December 15, 2004
160,000 
June 15, 2005
165,000 
December 15, 2005
170,000 
June 15, 2006
170,000 
December 15, 2006
175,000 
June 15, 2007
180,000 
December 15, 2007
185,000 
June 15, 2008
190,000 
December 15, 2008
195,000 
June 15, 2009
205,000 
December 15, 2009
210,000 
June 15, 2010
215,000 
December 15, 2010
220,000 
June 15, 2011
225,000 
December 15, 2011
230,000 
June 15, 2012
240,000 
December 15, 2012
245,000 
June 15, 2013
250,000 
December 15, 2013
260,000 
June 15, 2014
265,000
TOTAL
    4,750,000
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent; and (b) other goods to be procured by a Participating Municipality under a 
Subproject may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured under the first Subproject of a 
Participating Municipality, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in 
Part B above.
Page  11
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consulting firms’ 
services estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
Consulting firms’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.7 
of Section III of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to selection based on 
consultants’ qualifications.
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
 With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided that the terms of reference for the respective assignments are subject 
to the prior review and approval by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A of the Project (INPA)
Page  12
1.
The Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall:
(a)
by not later than December 31, 1999 select the Provinces (the 
Participating Provinces), and the Municipalities (the Participating Municipalities), 
eligible for participation under the Project, in accordance with criteria and 
procedures described in the Operational Manual; and
(b)
promptly thereafter, enter into an agreement with each one of the 
Participating Provinces (the Provincial Framework Agreement), and each one of the 
Participating Municipalities (the Municipal Framework Agreement), in accordance with 
standard terms acceptable to the Bank as detailed in the Operational Manual.
2.
Except as the Borrower, through SEDRONAR, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall not terminate, amend, or fail to enforce any of the 
Provincial Framework Agreements or any of the Municipal Framework Agreements or any 
provision thereof.
3.
The Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall ensure that:
(a)
a provincial technical supervisor (the Provincial Technical Supervisor) 
shall be appointed in each one of the Participating Provinces in accordance with terms 
of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank as detailed in the 
Operational Manual; and
(b)
a municipal council (the Consultative Municipal Council) shall be 
established in each one of the Participating Municipalities in accordance with terms 
of reference, membership (such as staff of the corresponding Participating 
Municipality, members of the community, including representatives of social 
development non-governmental organizations), and functions acceptable to the Bank as 
detailed in the Operational Manual.
4.
For the purposes of Part A.2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower, through SEDRONAR, 
shall:
(a)
ensure that the Consultative Municipal Council in each Participating 
Municipality shall prepare and submit to SEDRONAR, for its review and approval, a 
Subproject proposal for the implementation of a municipal plan for drug prevention 
(the Municipal Plan), in accordance with criteria and procedures detailed in the 
Operational Manual, including a procurement plan for goods and consultants’ services 
to be procured under the Subproject;
(b)
by not later than March 1, 2000, review and approve all Subproject 
proposals submitted by the Consultative Municipal Councils;
(c)
shortly thereafter, enter into a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) with each one of the Participating Municipalities for the provision of a 
Grant to finance Subproject implementation, in accordance with terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank as detailed in the Operational Manual; and
(d)
ensure that the Bank shall be furnished, for its ex-post review, a copy 
of each Municipal Plan, except for the first one, and a copy of each Subsidiary 
Agreement.
5.
Except as the Borrower, through SEDRONAR, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall not terminate, amend or fail to enforce any of the 
Subsidiary Agreements or any provision thereof.
Part B of the Project (SIME) 
6.
The Borrower, through SEDRONAR, shall: (a) by not later than January 1, 2000, 
furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the draft terms of reference and 
proposed design to undertake the survey of drug consumption patterns referred to under 
Part B.1 of the Project; and (b) by not later than March 31, 2000, carry out the 
survey in accordance with the terms of reference and a timetable approved by the Bank, 
and promptly thereafter, review with the Bank the results of such survey.
7.
For the purposes of Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower, through SEDRONAR, 
shall: (a) select approximately sixty (60) public or private institutions (the 
Monitoring Centers) to participate in the SIME Monitoring Network in accordance with 
criteria and procedures detailed in the Operational Manual; (b) ensure that at least 
one Monitoring Center shall be selected in each one of the Participating 
Page  13
Municipalities; and (c) develop and implement procedures for the appropriate 
management and disclosure of the data provided by the Monitoring Centers, in 
accordance with terms acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  14
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after, and to the extent, that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
