Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21308
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PANAMA
SECOND ROADS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 43930-PAN)
November 9, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Balboa (B$)
Exchange Rate US$1.00 = B$1 (fixed)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF PANAMA
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFC           Intemational Finance Corporation
MOP           Ministry of Public Works
PAN           Panama
PFG           Project Finance & Guarantees Department
TSCU          Transport Sector Coordination Unit
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:    Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager:      Bernard A. Becq



PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PANAMA
SECOND ROADS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.    This is the Project Completion Note for the Second Roads Rehabilitation Project of the
Panama Government. The Project was presented to and approved by the Board on September
15, 1998 (Report No: 18373-PAN). The loan was withdrawn at the request of the Government
of the Republic of Panama as of March 10, 2000 -a few days before eighteen months had
elapsed since Board approval.
2.    The main objective of the project approved by the Bank was to: (i) improve transport
efficiency on the road network; (ii) continue reducing traffic congestion and providing more
efficient, safe and reliable roads transport services in Panama City and other major cities in
Panama; (iii) continue the improvement in the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP)
for the administration and maintenance of roads and of environmental impact analysis; and (iv)
to improve the efficiency in the public road passenger transport industry, through technical
assistance to reorganize the public bus transport system.
3.    Total project costs were estimated at US$123.8 million. The Bank was to have provided
a loan of US$85 million. The Project constituted a continuing involvement of the Bank in the
financing of the national US$730 million Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program,
financed by the Government and a host of donors, including inter alia the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and the World Bank through an ongoing Road Rehabilitation Project
(MOP Report No: P-6168-PAN). The Project included two main components: (i) a roads and
bridges rehabilitation program, focusing on high-priority inter-urban roads and urban streets; and
(ii) institutional strengthening, through technical assistance to MOP to overhaul maintenance
management, improve environmental impact analysis capacity, and reorganize public passenger
transport.
4.    As the Project aimed at providing assistance to an existing Government program, it took
only 6 months to prepare. The loan was presented to the Board a few months before elections.
A change in Government, and the possible lack of continuity in project objectives, was identified
as a risk in the Project Appraisal Document, and the Project design provided the necessary
flexibility to accommodate changes.
5.    A new Government was indeed elected, and the new Administration reviewed the
portfolio of projects, including those financed by the Bank, in light of the austerity measures it
intended to implement. The new Government approved the Project's objectives, and
subsequently discussed with the Bank, during a period of approximately six months, possible
modifications to the scope of the Project, including eventually dropping certain components.
The changes that were discussed basically concerned the removal of a large component, the
rehabilitation of a long section of the Panamerican Highway, which would have resulted in a
reduced loan amount. This was consistent with the development objectives, and would have
allowed focus on the rehabilitation of the rural roads included in the program. In January 2000,



the Government expressed its intention to sign the loan pending a reduction in the project size
and loan amount as indicated above.
6.    By letter dated March 10, 2000, the Govermment, however, informed the Bank of its
decision not to sign the loan agreement. The letter cites in particular two reasons: (i) the
availability of funds from borrowing in the domestic market; and (ii) the lack of counterpart
funds (for the Bank loan) in the annual budget for fiscal year 2000.
7.    Although the loan was never signed, the Government manages to continue carrying out
its national Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program through the ongoing Bank-financed
Roads Rehabilitation Project, current and new loans from IDB, and an exceptional loan from the
Caja de Seguro Social. Implementation of the program is, however, slower than it would have
been with the new Bank-financed operation, and a number of reforms have been set aside, in
particular with regard to maintenance funding and operations, and the revival of the Transport
Sector Coordination Unit (TSCU) which was to coordinate transport sector investments and
policies.
8.    Key policy and institutional reforms with regard to maintenance management,
environmental and social issues, and the reorganization of public passenger transport, will be
pursued by the Bank with the support of the on-going Road Rehabilitation Project which has
been extended for a period of 18 months until March 30, 2002. The IDB also expressed its
intention to pursue the policy dialogue in the road and transport sectors under its two projects.
The Bank-financed program, in particular, finances about US$7 million of road rehabilitation,
and a very important assistance to the newly-created Road Transport and Transit Authority in
strengthening traffic management in Panama City. The issue of lower than required maintenance
budgets and maintenance management reforms will be in part addressed through a study to
update the road database and review road funding mechanisms. Support for privatization could
be taken up, possibly with IFC and PFG, under other operation(s).
IMAGING
D§19f                                                    Report No.:          21308
Type:       CN



