Report No. PID8129
Project Name                     Panama-Second Roads Rehabilitation...
Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Transportation - Highways
Project ID                       PAPA53706
Borrower                         Republic of Panama
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Works
Curundu, Panama, Panama
Tel. 5072-325024
Fax. 5072-325353
Date initial PID Prepared        November 27, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         March 23, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 16, 1998
Country and Sector Background.
1.      Panama's economy, with a per capita of US$3040 and low inflation, is
among the most prosperous and stable in the Latin American region. The
economy is characterized by a sharp duality between a dynamic,
internationally-oriented market-driven service sector - anchored in the
provision of transport services across the isthmus via the Panama Canal and
the Trans-isthmian highway, an international Banking Center in Panama City
and the Colon Free Zone - and a sluggish, closely regulated and highly
protected domestic portion - mostly agriculture and domestic manufacturing.
After rather poor performances during the late 1980s and the early part of
the 1990s, the economy is currently growing at about 4t per year.
2.      Panama depends heavily on its transport sector for the success of both
its service sector as agriculture and domestic manufacturing. The country
has a relatively well- developed transport infrastructure for both
international and domestic transport. However, due to inadequate
maintenance, its roads and streets deteriorated badly during the late
eighties and early nineties, the period of poor economic performance: more
than 74t of the network was estimated to be in good/fair condition in 1985
compared to only about 40t in 1993.   With the help of the ongoing Bank-IDB
financed Roads Rehabilitation Program and a substantial increase in road
maintenance expenditures, the Government has already brought back the
proportion of roads in fair to good condition to about 66w, with slightly
more than half of the program implemented, but needs to continue its efforts
to arrest further accumulation of the maintenance and rehabilitation backlog.
Furthermore, the Government's current emphasis on poverty alleviation
requires that accessibility to social services and markets be improved
through more efficient road transport.
Objectives
3.      The project is a follow-up to the ongoing Bank-IDB financed Road
Rehabilitation Program. It's main objectives are: (i) to improve transport
efficiency on the road network; (ii) to reduce traffic congestion and provide



more efficient, safe and reliable passenger transport services in Panama
City; (iii) to improve the Ministry of Public Works' administration and
maintenance of roads; and (iv) to increase the efficiency in the public
passenger road transport industry by fostering more competition.
Description
4.      The project would comprise:    (i) the rehabilitation of selected
primary, secondary and tertiary roads, including the provision of consulting
services for works supervision; (ii) the rehabilitation and selected
improvement of urban roads and intersections, including consulting services
for works supervision; (iii) continued development of the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) for administering and
maintaining the road network, planning urban transport and improving
environmental activities in the road sub-sector; and (iv) purchase of
equipment (traffic signals, road signalization equipment, vehicles, office
equipment, etc.).
Project Financing
5.      The total project cost would be US$118.1 million with an estimated
foreign component of about 72%. The Government would finance all local
costs, estimated at US$33.7 million and the Bank would finance the remaining
costs, all foreign exchange, of US$84.4 million.
Implementation
6.      Implementation of the project, which is expected to take about four and
half years starting from September 1998 would be the responsibility of MOP,
which would carry out the activities through its national directorates.
MOP's Special Unit for Program Coordination (UECP) would coordinate the
project implementation activities. Both MOP and UECP have the capacity to
implement the project which is much smaller than the ongoing project which it
is implementing successfully.
Sustainability
7.      The sustainability of the project's development impacts would be
governed by the extent to which the Government continues to maintain the
project roads, streets and bridges after their rehabilitation and the
continued application of the highway management systems to be developed
within MOP. The Government has demonstrated its commitment to road and
bridge maintenance by substantially increasing its road maintenance
expenditures since 1994 and moving gradually to maintenance by contract which
is a more efficient mode of road maintenance. MOP has also so far put the
highway management systems developed under the ongoing project to fruitful
use and can be expected to do the same with those under the proposed project
albeit with some persuasion.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.      The lessons learned from the ongoing Roads Rehabilitation Project, to
which the proposed project is a sequel, are that: (i) environmental
covenants should be clearly defined in scope and preferably limited to
components included specifically under the project; (ii) funds should be
-2 -



provided under the project for both engineering design and works supervision
since MOP does not have enough qualified staff to undertake the services in-
house and (iii) the Bank's standard procurement documents to be used under
the project should be discussed in detail and agreed during project appraisal
to avoid unnecessary delays during implementation. These lessons have been
incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
8.      Poverty Category
N/A
9.      Environmental Aspects
10.     The works under the project would be rehabilitation works which would
keep the existing road alignment unchanged as has been the case with the
ongoing project. The project roads will nevertheless be screened during
project implementation by a qualified Environmental Expert. The standard
bidding and contract documents to be used for the project's civil works would
contain environmental specifications to control the environmental behavior of
the contractors. Under the ongoing project, MOP's Environmental Unit is
vigilantly applying and enforcing these specifications. MOP's Environmental
Unit, which is being strengthened under the ongoing Roads Rehabilitation
Project, will receive further training under the proposed project.
Program Objectives Category: IU.
Contact Point:
Peter Gyamfi
Task Manager
(202) 473-8664
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 I{ Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5454
Fax: 202-522-1500
-3-



